
Dear Silicon Valley,
I need your expertise. Can you find my refrigerator?
Maybe it’s you, Amazon, with your visionary fleet of robotic drones? Or perhaps Uber, will you begin to operate as a problem solver rather than a problem child? Or Apple, maybe you can build a find-my-fridge app. New York City — and maybe all cities — needs a smart delivery service to help save local businesses from themselves.
The refrigerator I ordered is somewhere in a delivery truck in the tri-state area. Don’t ask me where because there’s no way to track it. I spent an entire work day waiting in vain for my appliances, including a medium-grade 30-inch Whirlpool bottom-freezer fridge with accu-chill that never came. And when I called the third online customer service rep at PC Richard, the local seller that advertises “honesty, integrity, and reliability” to determine why I received no call, no text, no knock on the door between the hours from 7:45AM and 11:45AM (my original delivery window), I was told they had tried to reach me on my phone before running off with the refrigerator.
My refrigerator is running — this is not a crank call.
I was assured that the PC Richard’s delivery man would return in two hours to install my fridge. I left a series of additional contact numbers with the “online” customer representative, but was told that I would have no direct access to the delivery driver. Expecting the worst, I called the toll-free number again an hour later to confirm his whereabouts and was placed on a lengthy hold for 30 minutes, until I was finally told that PC Richard delivery was done with deliveries for the day. It was only 1:30PM.
I have been told that the future will be lived in cities. But navigating logistics in the city where I live, New York City, can break you. Its imperfections remind me that we’re still not living in the future. It begins at the gateway, the notoriously inefficient Laguardia Airport, the choked-up trail of cars at the Holland Tunnel, and the delayed subway trains. It continues to the long lines at Trader Joe’s on a random Monday night. This place is like Level 3 autonomous driving in a blender: a giant ball of double-parked, semi-automatic customer disservice.
In the old days of mom and pop stores, I could have gone into the store and talked to Joe, the refrigerator salesman, whose nephew was probably also the delivery guy. Or if I had purchased from Amazon, like I do for more and more of my shopping these days, I’d have a clear path of escalation and could have at least tracked my refrigerator’s whereabouts. But here I found myself in the awkward middle ground, caught between an online service department and outsourced delivery service united only by their ability to disappoint me. I was a faceless voice on a phone with no clear course of escalation.
We are in a surreal moment of semi-automation. A local company can appear to be modern by selling goods on its website, but is unable to meet the baseline expectations of modern order fulfillment set by the internet giants. My only recourse was to call, call, call, again, and hold, hold, hold.
I explained my frustration to the fourth online customer service soldier whose job is to field calls from indignant customers like me. “How about we knock that refrigerator price down?” he said. “The only thing that’s going to make you happy is we deliver today, and that’s not going to happen.”
Is this rant nothing more than a one-star review? No it’s a real plea: help me find the proverbial refrigerator, along with a way for companies to better organize their automated procedures. I could have ordered my appliances from Amazon Prime, but I want local businesses to thrive. But to do so, they require modern logistical support. Otherwise New York City, like much of America, will just become another Walmart, USA.
Sincerely,
Tamara

Microsoft unveiled a radical redesign for Skype earlier this month, with a new look that has Snapchat-like features. While the company has overhauled its Skype apps, there’s also a new Skype logo that ditches the fluffy cloud aspects of the past. Brand New has a closer look at the new logo, and a comparison to the old one that everyone knows.
Skype has been using part of this logo for a while, but it appears the broader word mark is now moving to Microsoft’s corporate typeface. It’s much more consistent with Microsoft’s other software and services like Office, and likely reflects the company’s move to position Skype as business communications software.
Microsoft's latest Skype update includes a new Highlights feature that lets users share daily stories to a news feed. It also includes emoji responses for video calls, and a much bigger focus on text-based conversations. The new Skype design is available on Android immediately, and Microsoft is planning to refresh its Windows and iOS apps soon.
Smartphones have fast become the new frontier of artificial intelligence. Algorithms that used to run in the cloud, beaming results down to our devices via the internet, are now being replaced by software that runs directly on phones and tablets. Facebook is doing it, Apple is doing it, and Google is (perhaps) doing it slightly more than anyone else.
The latest example of mobile AI from the Silicon Valley search giant is the release of MobileNets, a set of machine vision neural networks designed to run directly on mobile devices. The networks come in a variety of sizes to fit all sort of devices (bigger neural nets for more powerful processors) and can be trained to tackle a number of tasks.
MobileNets can be used to analyze faces, detect common objects, geolocate photos, and perform fine-grained recognition tasks, like identifying different species of dogs. These tools are extremely adaptable, and could be put to a number of different uses, including powering augmented reality features, or creating apps to help the disabled. Google says the performance of each neural net differs from task to task, but overall, its networks either meet or approach recent state-of-the-art standards.
For consumers, this is going to mean more mobile apps with AI functions as developers start incorporating these tools. Running these sort of tasks directly on-device has a number of benefits for everyday users, including faster performance, greater convenience (you don’t have to connect to the internet), and better privacy (your data isn’t being sent off-device).
Apple pushed the latter angle particular when it released a set of machine learning APIs for developers (named CoreML) earlier this month, and both Facebook and Google have created their own frameworks for building mobile-first. Even Snapchat is working on putting image recognition on your phone, releasing its first academic paper on the subject this week. The next step for mobile AI? Specially designed mobile processors. Both Google and Apple have dropped hints they might be crafting such silicon, and ARM has already released a first early batch.
Microsoft is finally bringing its full version of Office to the Windows Store today. To coincide with the release of the new Surface Laptop running Windows 10 S, Microsoft Office apps like Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Access, and Publisher will all be available in the Store. While Microsoft previously listed Office in the Store, this is the first time the company will let you download it and update the apps directly from the Windows Store.
The addition of Office is all part of Microsoft’s new push to convince developers to migrate their desktop apps to the Windows Store. After failing to convince developers to build new universal apps for Windows 8 and Windows 8, Microsoft now hopes its Centennial Desktop Bridge tool will help developers move traditional apps to the Windows Store. Surface Laptop owners and anyone with a new machine running Windows 10 S will have to download this version of Office, as 10 S is restricted to apps from the Windows Store.
In a support article, spotted by Twitter user WalkingCat, Microsoft notes there are some limitations on this Office version for the Windows Store. You’ll only be able to install 32-bit versions of Office, and COM add-ins are not supported. Microsoft isn’t including a OneNote desktop app in the Windows Store, but the existing UWP app will be installed instead. Windows 10 S users can still use the existing Office mobile apps, and Microsoft is placing its install and update process for Office in the Windows Store in preview until it’s fully tested.
If AI and robots are going to take our jobs, at least they can do it in the most relaxing way possible. Just like Shimon here — a four-armed marimba-playing robot designed by George Tech’s music technology center. Sure, Shimon is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to AI making music, but just listen to those jazz-fusion vibes.
Like many AI music experiments, the music Shimon is playing is generated by a method called deep learning. This essentially means mining a large amount of information (in this case, a dataset of some 5,000 songs) and looking for common patterns in the music. For example, if you have a sequence of notes F, G, A, what note will follow next? Deep learning will give you a good answer.
Shimon the robot has been around for a while now, playing alongside human musicians using preprogrammed songs. But now, it’s being used to play original compositions. The video above shows the first melody Shimon ever created, while the one below is melody number two — a slightly faster number:
As we’ve seen with previous experiments, the actual musical output is a bit avant-garde. Researchers working in this field say this is because the deep learning systems we use to analyze music tend not to be so good at thinking about long-term structure. They analyze the music in short bursts, and the resulting melodies sound quite abstract. It is possible to program in artificial constraints so the programs will produce songs with traditional verse-chorus structures, but at that point it’s not really AI-created music, but AI-human collaboration.
So, although the marimba is a particularly non-threatening instrument, the melody itself is proof that machines have a way to go. For more information on Shimon, check out this interview with its teachers, Gil Weinberg and Mason Bretan, over at IEEE Spectrum.
Hori is a well-respected Japanese video game accessory maker that’s been pumping out solid fighting sticks, gamepads, and screen protectors for pretty much as long as such things have existed. But I’m sorry, Hori, your new officially licensed Nintendo Switch keyboard is a deeply pointless product, and I’m here to suggest some improvements.
To be clear, a Nintendo Switch keyboard isn’t altogether a bad idea — at least not in Japan, where popular MMO Dragon Quest X is coming out soon. It’s just that this one has some... issues.
It’s not like no Japanese accessory maker has ever created an incredible keyboard for a Nintendo console before. This useless Hori effort made me think of ASCII’s awesome Gamecube controller keyboard, designed for Phantasy Star Online:
Just look at it! Now that’s a Nintendo keyboard. And with the Switch’s detachable Joy-Cons, you wouldn’t even have to make a full controller — just a keyboard with the rails for the Joy-Cons to slot into.
Like so:
Isn’t that better? I’m sure Hori could work with Nintendo to allow wireless input, or just include a wireless USB-A adapter for the dock. Throw a USB-C port on the keyboard itself and you could even get rid of the need for Nintendo’s really-should’ve-been-in-the-box Joy-Con Charging Grip, too.
But why stop there? This solution would still only work with the Switch in TV mode, robbing the system of its biggest selling point: versatility. What about those who want to play Dragon Quest X at Starbucks?
I think I have the answer. Lots of people use split keyboards for ergonomic reasons, and there are even gaming-focused models like this one from Kinesis. Inspired by that, and a suggestion from my colleague Rich, I’ve come up with the ultimate Switch peripheral:
Who wouldn’t want such a thing?
“Everyone in the world except like 17 people,” you say?
Okay, well, maybe. But dare to dream a little. It’d certainly bring more happiness to society than Hori’s actual Switch keyboard.
Which is coming out in Japan this September, in case you’re interested.
Amazon has released the Dash Wand, a new Alexa-enabled device that can help you scan grocery barcodes, convert measurements, and order household essentials from Amazon just by using your voice. The Wi-Fi-enabled Dash Wand is magnetic, so you can stick it on your fridge, and also offers some of the features of its bigger Echo sibling, allowing you to find recipes and restaurants without using your hands.
At a few inches long, and made out of white and black plastic, the Dash Wand looks like a refreshed version of the company’s original Dash devices. First released in 2014, those Dash also let you scan item barcodes or use voice controls to add products to your shopping cart, but forced you to check out via Amazon’s site. They also had no Alexa access — Amazon’s assistant wasn’t available to the public then — and were only available to a limited number of existing AmazonFresh users. A second-generation version cost $49.99 and could add anything on Amazon to a shopping cart, but users still had to check out manually.
The Dash Wand, on the other hand, lets you buy items directly, and is now available to all Amazon Prime subscribers in the United States. It’s priced at $20, but Amazon Prime subscribers who do pick one up will receive $20 back in their Amazon accounts, making the Dash Wand essentially a free purchase. Customers will theoretically then use that returned cash to buy things using their new Dash Wand, picking up paper towels, soap, and other household essentials by asking the device to order each one, rather than needing a more expensive Echo or an individual Dash button for each product. Buyers will also get a free 90-day trial of the AmazonFresh home grocery service.
Happy birthday to the GIF! The venerable file format turns 30 today, and Facebook is taking the opportunity to add a few GIF-related features to its service. Users could already post GIFs in status updates, but from June 15th, you’ll now be able to add GIFs in Facebook comments, allowing you to search through and select from a list of relevant files right there in the social network’s interface.
Facebook is also using the day to salute the surprisingly resilient format, throwing what it calls a “GIF party,” and offering statistics on its existing GIF usage. More than 13 billion GIFs were sent last year via Facebook Messenger, it says, after the company made the format usable on the chat service. The busiest day for GIFs was apparently January 1st this year, with more than 400 million sent, as hungover people across the globe let a short moving image do the legwork of expressing their friendship and love for them.
More worryingly, Facebook is also using the day to re-open the fractious debate about GIF pronunciation — hard or soft G — with a poll for US-based users. It’s a decision that may turn friend against friend and tarnish what should otherwise be a happy day, but we may finally work out what the people want, no matter what the format’s creator says.
A couple of weeks ago, District 9 and Chappie director Neill Blomkamp unveiled Oats Studios, his new project focusing on experimental short films. At the time, Blomkamp described the studio as an attempt to remain creative in a film industry that rewards endless sequels and franchises. Through Oats, he’ll be developing a range of potential projects, from serious science fiction to wackier concepts, with the hope that some of them may eventually make the leap to full-length feature films.
The first film from Oats Studios, Rakka, is now available for streaming on YouTube and Steam, and it depicts the aftermath of an alien invasion. The year is 2020, and aliens have enslaved humanity, and altering the Earth’s atmosphere. But Rakka isn’t a conventional short film. Instead, it’s a series of scenes depicting various points of view. Some scenes show what the aliens are doing to humanity; others track a resistance movement led by Sigourney Weaver, and an escaped prisoner named Amir. Later, in a climactic battle, resistance fighters shoot down an alien aircraft and track down its pilot.
On the eve of its release, I spoke with Blomkamp about his new film, the real-world inspirations, and the key to success for Oats Studios.
This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.
This is the one of three projects Oats will be releasing in this initial volume of projects. Where did the story come from?
The original idea was to make make a science fiction piece that was about an occupying force in a foreign country, and it kind of grew around that. I always wanted to do a science fiction invasion piece that had direct parallels with an occupying force in a country, like the Germans in France, or Americans in Iraq. There's these levels of armed troops that are walking through neighborhoods, and well-built buildings, and local politicians have been turned or manipulated. There is a lot of stuff in there that I felt was really interesting, and to look at it from a different point of view is really cool. That's where the seed was from.
The narrator in the film says that in this environment, people have to do things that in peacetime would be really abhorrent, such as using a human being to bait a trap for the aliens. Is there another political parallel there that you were looking at?
No. There's a point at which I feel like you just start getting into character or pure sci-fi ideas. The same thing happened with District 9, where you started off with allegory, but there’s a certain point [when] it branches off, and as long as you’re not damaging the metaphor, then it's fine.
Some of that is just story or plot or character, and I think Nosh, [who proposes the bait idea], is so completely insane and nihilistic that what he's offering may tactically actually makes sense. But then in other times, it wouldn’t. That isn't necessarily a direct parallel with something related to war.
Tell me a little about the design in Rakka, because it feels quite a bit different from the other films that you've done.
The main idea that I like is that [the alien creatures] have this nanotech ferrofluid that changes shape. The aliens would have essentially come to earth in a lake. It forms whenever they need, and when they arrive at Earth, it probably split up into several pieces, with the different ships that formed out of it going to different continents and building the towers that they live in. They breathe a different atmosphere. If you look at the creature itself, it has this black hood on that also runs down the bridge of its nose. It's almost like a gas mask, but hooked directly into their nostrils. It just does whatever they need it to: it processes Earth's air into a mixture that they can breathe, it forms weapons, it forms the structures that they live in, it forms their vehicles. I just like the idea that [the fluid’s] always active, and it’s intelligent.
The aliens that we see in this piece, which we have dubbed the “Klum” aliens (rhymes with ‘plume’), are actually a sort of genetically cloned drone. They're not entirely sentient, and they're sent out by a far more intelligent species who we haven’t really seen yet.
There's a scene where a soldier sees something after his truck is blown up. Was that the superior alien species?
Yeah. They're floating around in the peripheral edges of our solar system, and they're visualizing what's happening on the Earth by proxy. They live inside some kind of quantum state back in their ship. They’re gathering any organism that they find that can help them think about how to survive the end of the universe. They know it's coming, and they don't want to die.
The Klum treat this species like a god. However, this intelligent species turned their back on them, but they didn’t do that to humans.
The character of Amir is an escaped prisoner. He's obviously been experimented on by the Klum. Can you tell me a little about him?
[The Gone World author] Thomas Sweterlitsch came up with this idea. The experimentation we see on Amir is the Klum trying to find out what this top-tier species sees in humanity: why are humans worthy of attention, but not the Klum? Amir wasn’t killed, and the experimentation gives him an eye into how the Klum see the world. I have ideas where his character goes, but we just have to see if the audience gets behind us in order for us to tell more of these stories.
So you see this as one small episode in a much larger story.
Yes. We don't know what form that story will take. Rakka feels like it could almost be more of an episodic thing, because there's a lot of avenues to explore. The footage is too unconventional and weird [for a mainstream feature], and the audience has to think of the footage as a snapshot into the window of this world.
It’s the same for the film we’re going to release in a couple of weeks. When the audience understands that this isn't the complete, final story, and they choose to get behind us financially, we can then figure out if this is an episodic thing, or if it’s one big feature film. There are other ideas that we have in Volume 1, and some that will be in Volume 2, that are explicitly feature films.
These stories aren’t pre-determined: they don't have to be HBO-style, 60-minute episodes. They can be multiple 20-minute pieces, you can have a five-minute window into a character with just one scene, or you can have a two-hour piece somewhere else.
It felt to me like you have the right amount of material for a future film with Rakka. You have the big set pieces that could then be connected with a much more complete story.
I've always thought of Rakka as much more in the camp of Star Trek or something, where you have a lot of interesting things to explore, rather than a movie. You could make a feature, but I think it's more interesting for it to be more of a long term, episodic format.
But if you had someone like 20th Century Fox come up and say that they wanted to do business, is that something you would be receptive to?
We would be receptive if our main goal failed. If you feel like you want to get behind it, go to Steam, buy the film instead of watching it for free. If you like what you see, the only way for us to make more is for you to give us cash to fuel the next round of stuff.
If that fails — which it probably stands a greater chance of failing than working — than a traditional approach to realizing some of the ideas is very much on the table. But it's not a goal. I could have just written Rakka, and went to Hollywood. I don't want to do that. I want to test this model and see if anyone in the world will get behind us.
Beyond Good & Evil 2 is dramatically different from the original — and that’s about all I can confidently say about the ambitious new game. First announced in 2008, Beyond Good & Evil 2 roared back to life this week at E3 with an explosive cinematic trailer that reintroduced players to Michel Ancel’s distinct and vibrant sci-fi universe. What the trailer didn’t show, however, was anything about how the game might play.
Not long after the reveal, Ancel and his team took me through a very early technical demonstration of the game. Where the original Beyond Good & Evil was a fairly straightforward third-person action adventure, its follow-up is something much larger and more complex. It combines elements of online worlds, early-access releases, role-playing games, and procedural generation. It’s also, admittedly, still pretty rough around the edges. Many of the game’s key elements — from graphics to combat to narrative — are still being implemented.
“There’s still a lot of work to do,” Ancel says, “but we now really believe that we’re going to make this game.”
But first, some clarification: while they bear the same name, this Beyond Good & Evil 2 and the one originally unveiled a decade ago are different games. Initially, the game was planned as a sequel, continuing the intrigue-laden story that turned the first Beyond Good & Evil into a beloved cult classic. Eventually, Ancel and his team at Ubisoft’s Montpellier studio decided to switch directions and create a prequel. The idea was to build an experience that could be enjoyed by anyone, regardless of whether or not they played the first game.
Three years ago they started working on the technology that would power the experience — it started out as a kind of solar system simulation tool — and only recently have they started actually building the game. “When you don’t have this technology, you can’t really start the game,” Ancel explains. “It’s too difficult. But now we can say for sure that we will make this game, we’ll finish it. Because we have the technology for it.” He describes the game’s current status as “day zero of development.”
Just what kind of game Beyond Good & Evil 2 will be is hard to pin down. It takes place in the same universe as the original, and is set a few generations before the events of that game. (Ancel insists “it’s not a reboot.”) Players will be able to create their own distinct in-game avatar, who will start on the bottom rung of society, before working their way up to become captain of a spaceship, complete with a crew. “Whatever character you choose, you will start at the very bottom of the social system,” Ancel says. “Maybe you’re delivering pizza. But one day you will have this gigantic spaceship.”
In a big shift from the first game, the prequel is structured like an RPG. You and your crew will develop new skills over time, and how you grow and change will reportedly depend on what you do and where you go. “You explore, you discover new cultures, those cultures are adapted to the planet, and then you can customize your ship based on what you discover on the planet,” Ancel explains.
Beyond Good & Evil 2 will be both a single-player experience and a co-operative online game, as Ancel says you’ll be able to play either by yourself or with friends. There’s also a shared world component, as certain in-universe events will happen for all players in the game. The worlds you’ll be exploring, Ancel explains, are a combination of hand-designed and procedurally generated. He describes it as “like a SimCity simulation.” Essentially, the developers have built all of the individual parts, as well as a logic system that puts them together in ways that make sense. This system allows them do things like fast-forward in time and instantaneously see how cities and planets will change over that span.
Similarly, the story itself appears to be something of a hybrid. Ancel explains that there is a specific narrative that will be told in the game, but that it will also include systemic events that happen based on what you do, the places you explore, and potentially the other players you interact with. “As developers, we can imagine that we will release other stories, other parts of the world,” he says. “We can expand it. But at the same time, we want to have that feeling of completion. ‘I’m going through a story and there’s a start, there’s an end.’ But you know how it is when you have online play — the real stories are going to come from people playing with each other.”
It all sounds incredibly ambitious, especially when you consider that Ancel also wants to treat Beyond Good & Evil 2 as something of an early access title, with a community of players offering feedback and testing early prototypes. The version of the game I saw, meanwhile, was still in a very early state. The graphics were mostly placeholder (Ancel says that “two weeks ago there were no graphics”) while aspects like combat and any kind of narrative aspect had yet to be implemented.
Instead, I was able to watch Ancel pilot a large ship that looked a bit like a flying submarine, around a rough version of the same city featured in the new trailer. According to Ancel, one of the pillars of the game is its sense of scale; the idea that you can explore places both huge and small. To demonstrate this, he flew his ship near a giant Ganesha statue that towered over the city, hopped out of his ship, and started walking around on the statue. Later on, he piloted his ship out of the atmosphere and into space; it reminded me a lot of the feeling in No Man’s Sky where you can see a planet on the horizon, and then actually fly there.
The big question, of course, is how all of these various elements and systems will fit together. And right now it’s just too early to tell. So much of the game right now consists of concepts and ideas, and it’ll be quite some time before we see them put into practice. Ancel says that 2018 is too early to expect the game’s release, though he hopes to have a new version of Beyond Good & Evil 2 ready for E3 next year, which will be “as close as possible to the trailer.”
That trailer ignited hope in the game’s vocal fanbase, who have been waiting years to learn just what’s happening with the game. It seems that Ancel has finally decided just what kind of game he wants to make — and next comes the hard part. “Now we are really building the game,” he says.
Dentists and patients alike want to know how to make dental work less traumatic — and one possible solution may be to combine it with virtual reality. That’s why researchers in the UK enlisted 80 people who needed a cavity filled or a tooth pulled, and separated them into three groups. They gave the first two groups VR headsets, but not the unlucky third control group.
The VR groups either got to explore a beach or navigate a city. The people in the control group just stared at the ceiling while the dentist yanked on their teeth. (Everyone in the study got pain meds or sedation if they needed it.) Patients were surveyed both immediately after their appointments, and a week later. The people immersed in the coastal VR reported less stress and pain than both the patients navigating through the virtual cityscape and the ones with no distraction — according to a study published today in Environment and Behavior.
Much bigger studies will need to be done to see if this holds up. But both the beach scene and the city do sound like reasonably pleasant virtual alternatives to watching the dentist’s tools at work (although two patients had to stop the city VR because they felt hot and dizzy).
Still, both locales are pretty unimaginative when you think about the virtual reality possibilities you could pair with the unique experience of a having a shrieking dental drill digging into your jaw. So, to help the researchers out, we came up with a menu of options for the full VR dental experience:
North Korea increasingly appears to have been behind the ransomware attack that infected hundreds of thousands of computers last month and shut down hospitals, businesses, and other systems in the process.
The Washington Post is now reporting that the US National Security Agency believes with “moderate confidence” that the ransomware, called WannaCry, came from hackers sponsored by North Korea’s spy agency. The report isn’t public, but the Post says the assessment has been distributed within the agency.
North Korea was first linked to WannaCry last month. Several cybersecurity researchers, including some at Symantec and Kaspersky Lab, saw code similarities between WannaCry and other malware previously traced back to North Korea.
At the time, the researchers said they only had a “weak” connection between WannaCry and the country, because there were other ways the code overlap could have occurred. But the NSA has now traced the ransomware back to IP addresses associated with North Korea’s spy agency, according to the Post.
Combined, the information builds a stronger case for North Korea being behind the attack. Specifically, the Post says a state-funded team known as the Lazarus Group appears to be responsible.
One very odd aspect about all of this is the fact that North Korea, a country, seems to have on some level been using WannaCry as a way to raise funds. When the malware infected a computer, it would lock down all files with encryption and demand that a $300 ransom be paid in bitcoin to restore them. Files would be deleted within seven days, the ransomware said, if the fee wasn’t paid.
According to the Post, that attempted payday hasn’t really worked. The bitcoin trail is apparently very easy to track, so it won’t be simple to cash out.
The WannaCry malware relied on leaked NSA code, so it doesn’t entirely prove North Korea’s hacking acumen either. But the country has repeatedly been involved in major hacking incidents over the past few years. In the US, most notably, it was said to be responsible for the 2014 breach of Sony Pictures. And the Post says it was linked last year to several thefts from banks throughout Asia.
In an attempt to even the playing field with competitors, Mozilla Firefox stepped up its game Tuesday by releasing an update that will increase browser speeds and cut down on memory usage.
Firefox 54 has opened up its upper limit of processes from one to four, although users can customize it to be more by entering “about:config” in the address bar and adjusting the settings themselves.
This new version of Firefox feels faster and it scores higher on an online browser speed test than Chrome or Safari, even after opening 20 tabs, although it still gives the old loading sign on all of the pages. Firefox product vice president Nick Nguyen calls this upgrade “the largest change to Firefox code in our history,” according to his blog post detailing the changes.
Have you used Firefox and wondered why it was so sluggishly slow? In the tech equivalent of finding out that someone has been manually inputting thousands of accounting entries into Excel, it turns out Firefox has been relying on a single operating system process to load multiple 2.5-megabyte-sized tabs at once.
In comparison, Google Chrome runs a process for every tab and then some. Right now, I’ve got 22 tabs open while typing this in Chrome yet 330 processes running on 1640 threads. In contrast to Chrome, the upgrade from single process to four processes may feel quite minimal. So why only four?
Even this slight increase in the number of processes comes with a trade-off for memory space, according to Mozilla software developers, reiterating Firefox’s reluctance to sacrifice RAM. Four is the optimal number the developers arrived at for computers with 8GB of RAM.
In order to adapt Firefox to run in multiple processes, Mozilla developers had to break Firefox Add-Ons that depend on a single-process architecture, Ryan Pollock, Firefox’s senior marketing manager, writes on Medium. Mozilla’s Project Quantum, created to optimize the browser engine running within a content process, remains in the works.
This latest software update seems to be building on aspirations that Firefox senior VP Mark Mayo expressed in January in an interview with The Verge. Mayo made it clear that Mozilla didn’t want the web to turn into a monopoly controlled by a few huge companies.
The improvements to Firefox come after a trying time for the company. In February, the company laid off about 50 employees after Firefox OS tanked, and Firefox employees have acknowledged how far the browser has fallen from its brighter days. But if Firefox can use less memory than Chrome and run slightly faster than it used to, it may present itself as a decent browser alternative. Nguyen is imploring former users to give the company another shot: “If you stopped using Firefox, try it again.”
Correction: June 14th, 8PM ET: This story has been updated to correct Ryan Pollock’s title. He is the senior product marketing manager for Firefox, not Mozilla’s head of product marketing.
The Nativ Vita music player looks like a tablet, except all you can do with it is play and control music. The 11.6-inch, 1920 x 1080 touchscreen device has onboard storage to host your digital music collection and can also access various streaming platforms, like Apple Music, Spotify, Pandora, and Tidal. The thing looks nice and has an impressive spec sheet.
Because it doesn’t include built-in speakers, it instead plays music through either USB, SPDIF, HDMI, and AES/EBU ports, or a Bluetooth, gigabit Ethernet, or 802.11ac Wi-Fi connection. You have options. It also includes a Cortex-A9 processor with 4GB of RAM, and up to two HDDs that support a max of 2TB of storage each. It’s also voice-controlled, has companion iOS, Android, and smartwatch apps, and includes an infrared remote. You can also stream over Google Cast or Apple Airplay. This thing does a lot and really seems like a legitimate option for someone who loves music and wants flexibility for their speaker setup.
Do I need a dedicated touchscreen solely for music when I can stream from my phone to my Bluetooth- or Wi-Fi-connected speakers? Probably not, especially when the Vita starts at $1,599, but at least it looks better than a PC and can be the music interface for a home. It’s now available and shipping through Nativ’s website.
Oftentimes, the best way to describe directions to someone is to explain using street view technology, so you can use notable landmarks as cues for turns and stops. While Google Maps has been pretty good at covering a large part of the world, it’s certainly missing one useful component: a helpful guide dog who photobombs every shot along the way.
At least that’s one competitive advantage for Daum, a Kakao-owned web portal, for its coverage in Ulleung-gun, Gyeongbuk, South Korea. Map services often employ human photographers to capture off-road images, and it appears this very good dog has decided to accompany just about every shot along the trail on this little South Korean island.
Need help finding that lookout point over the beautiful blue ocean? Sure, follow doggo up the stairs and hang when you’ve found the area with the wooden benches.
He / she even waits for you when you’re running behind.
Sometimes doggo is a little shy.
But never fear, we all just need a little break.
The photos appear to have been captured since July 2010, but I will happily take outdated directions with a side of fluffy virtual assistant. Explore on your own here.
Your move, Google Maps.
If you paid close attention to the 9-minute Spider-Man demo at Sony’s E3 2017 event, you might have noticed the superhero knocking a goon off a skyscraper — only to sling him safely back onto the building. Bryan Intihar, creative director of Insomniac Games, explained that the game won’t allow players to use Spidey’s abilities to kill villains, or anybody else for that matter.
“We wouldn’t not allow that,” said Intihar. “Marvel would not allow that, the world would not allow that.”
Intihar didn’t provide specifics about how the game prevents Spider-Man from committing first-degree murder, or you know, accidentally bumpy somebody a little too hard near a very high ledge. Though it appears, in the GIF above, the game’s AI may automatically perform the safety maneuver.
Like most mainstream superheroes, Spider-Man is largely known for pulverizing enemies within an inch of their life, while maintaining an acute moral high ground. Though in the past, Spider-Man has, despite what you might have assumed, killed his enemies a number of times.

Fantastic Four and X-Men: The Last Stand screenwriter Simon Kinberg has been tapped to direct the upcoming X-Men: Dark Phoenix movie for 20th Century Fox. Entertainment Weekly reports that it’s Kinberg’s directorial debut after producing several films in the X-Men universe, including Deadpool and Logan. Joining him are returning core cast members from X-Men: Apocalypse: James McAvoy, Jennifer Lawrence, Michael Fassbender, Sophie Turner, and others.
Dark Phoenix is another attempt on Fox’s part to tell the classic “Dark Phoenix” storyline from the comics. Taking place in the ‘90s, Dark Phoenix will reportedly see the X-Men take on Lilandra, the leader of the interstellar Shi’ar Empire played by newcomer Jessica Chastain, and the otherworldly Phoenix Force. The last time the X-Men were up against that Force was in The Last Stand, a movie so poorly received the franchise went out of its way to erase it from the series timeline.
With Kinberg and the cast signed on, it’s now full steam ahead for the movie as the X-Men franchise. The series, despite the middling reviews for X-Men: Apocalypse, is on an upswing after the successes of Deadpool, Logan, and FX’s Legion. And Kinberg, despite being a new director, has worked as an architect on the franchise for years, though the X-movies have seen more duds than successes on his watch. We’ll have to wait and see on this one.
At long last, the perfect score for arcade classic Ms. Pac-Man has been achieved, though not by a human. Maluuba — a deep learning team acquired by Microsoft in January — has created an AI system that’s learned how to reach the game’s maximum point value of 999,900 on Atari 2600, using a unique combination of reinforcement learning with a divide-and-conquer method.
AI researchers have a documented penchant for using video games to test machine learning; they better mimic real-world chaos in a controlled environment versus more static games like chess. In 2015, Google’s DeepMind AI was able to learn how to master 49 Atari games using reinforcement learning, which provides positive or negative feedback each time the AI attempts to solve a problem.
Though AI has conquered a wealth of retro games, Ms. Pac-Man has remained elusive for years, due to the game’s intentional lack of predictability. Turns out it’s a toughie for humans as well. Many have tried to reach Ms. Pac-Man’s top score, only coming as close as 266,330 on the Atari 2600 version. The game’s elusive 999,900 number though, has so far only been achieved by mortals via cheats.
Maluuba was able to use AI to beat the game by tasking out responsibilities, breaking it up into bite-sized jobs assigned to over 150 agents. The team then taught the AI using what they call Hybrid Reward Architecture — a combination of reinforcement learning with a divide-and-conquer method. Individual agents were assigned piecemeal tasks — like finding a specific pellet — which worked in tandem with other agents to achieve greater goals. Maluuba then designated a top agent (Microsoft likens this to a senior manager at a company) that took suggestions from all the agents in order to inform decisions on where to move Ms. Pac-Man.
The best results came when individual agents “acted very egotistically” and the top agent focused on what was best for the overall team, taking into account not only how many agents wanted to go in a particular direction, but the importance of that direction. (Example: fewer agents wanting to avoid a ghost took priority over a higher amount of agents wanting to pursue a pellet.) “There’s this nice interplay,” says Harm Van Seijen, a researcher with Maluuba, “between how they have to, on the one hand, cooperate based on the preferences of all the agents, but at the same time each agent cares only about one particular problem. It benefits the whole.”
Maluuba says this Hybrid Reward Architecture version of AI learning has expansive, practical applications, like helping to predict a company’s sales leads, or making advances in natural language processing. Watch Microsoft explain its methods, above.
Plugging things in is no fun, especially when a certain company refuses to embrace industry-standard plugs. Wireless charging is an obvious solution, which has been embraced by many Android manufacturers but has remained conspicuously absent from the iPhone. That might be about to change.
Wistron is a manufacturer in India, which Apple recently added to its roster to increase market share in the country and bring prices down. On Wednesday, Wistron's CEO Robert Hwang told reporters that the next generation of iPhones will include "new features like waterproof and wireless charging."
Hwang was talking about the increased complexity of manufacturing over previous iPhone generations, and since right now Wistron only makes the iPhone SE, it's probable that the waterproofing he's referring to is the same level of water resistance that the iPhone 7 has. But the mention of wireless charging is a big slip-up and a nice ray of hope for anyone who has been begging for this feature.
Other signs and rumors have pointed to wireless charging for the next iPhone, not least of which was a note from Ming-Chi Kuo, a typically reliable analyst at KGI Securities, back in February predicting that exact feature. Then a schematic leaked in April of unknown provenance and legitimacy, which showed a large pad the exact shape of a wireless charging antenna:
This is a tipped leak what means I can't confirm if legit or not but there you have it... #iPhone8 pic.twitter.com/6OgASNUDNb
And a Reddit post a couple of days ago showed a purported font and back panel. The back panel is glass, which is another important factor for wireless charging:
This is more evidence than we usually have at this time about an upcoming iPhone, but it's still far enough away from launch that things could change between now and then. (Apple usually announces its iPhones in September, and the next iPhone has been rumored to be delayed.) But hopefully all our dreams come true and iPhone users can finally enter the wireless charging era.
Alto’s Odyssey, the sequel to the runaway mobile hit Alto’s Adventure, is set for release this summer, and amid all the hype and noise of E3, developer Snowman quietly showed off our first good look at gameplay for the upcoming endless snowboarding game.
As teased in the initial trailer, Alto’s Odyssey moves the action from the snow-capped peaks of the first one to “a variety of desert locales.” Rails are attached to moving balloons instead of stationary buildings, which characters will be able to bounce off of to reach greater heights. Dust devils dance at the edge of jumps, ready to propel players upward. And in addition to the jumping, flipping, and rail-grinding mechanics from the first game, Odyssey is adding the ability to wall ride, allowing characters to scale up the side of cliffs with a single tap.
It’s still too early to judge, but so far Alto’s Odyssey looks like a great sequel to the original game, keeping the fluid gameplay and stunning scenery that made the first Alto title so good, while expanding mechanics in some interesting ways.
Alto’s Odyssey is set to release sometime this summer.
Hollywood properties have been getting VR tie-ins frequently over the past few years, but now The Walking Dead is stepping things up with an entire series of virtual reality games. Skybound Entertainment, the production company co-founded by Walking Dead creator Robert Kirkman, announced this morning that it is partnering with Skydance Interactive to produce the titles.
While audiences are most familiar with the story of Rick Grimes, featured in both the comic series and the AMC television show, the first VR game will actually focus on a entirely different set of characters. It’s not clear if later games will bring in more familiar faces, but according to Skybound Interactive president Dan Murray, Kirkman’s comic will be the primary inspiration. There’s no projected release date or other specifics for any of the projects just yet, but the press release issued by both companies does state that the first game will let players experience the world of The Walking Dead “through an innovative contextual interaction system.”
If that sounds vague and needlessly jargon-y, that’s because it is. But Skybound has been relentlessly forward-thinking when it comes to exploring digital platforms. The company produced the YouTube Red series Scare PewDiePie (before PewDiePie self-immolated, that is), and it is also working on a virtual reality adaptation of the interactive horror play Delusion. Most recently, Skybound showed off a film called Captured at the Overlook Film Festival, which used a mobile app to deliver additional content to audiences while they were watching the movie in real time. Of course, The Walking Dead itself has had a particularly strong run with its interactive Telltale game series.
Skydance Interactive has already been working in virtual reality as well, showing off its upcoming title Archangel as part of the offerings at IMAX’s new virtual reality arcades. (The title will be coming to consoles in July.) It’s not clear yet whether the new Walking Dead games will be brought to IMAX locations under Skydance’s existing partnership, but these kind of high-profile, IP-based titles could be a perfect fit for the location-based VR installations IMAX is working on. Of course, the benefit of something as widely popular as The Walking Dead is that it could potentially encourage headset adoption among consumers as well, making it a particularly intriguing option for gaming console VR.
Updated, June 15th, 1:15PM: Clarified language about Skydance’s existing partnership with IMAX.
Late last year, Netflix enabled downloads for offline playback, which was great news for subscribers who take planes, ride the subway, or own a phone. The function came with some minor caveats, like expiration dates for downloads and limited support for microSD storage on Android devices. Now, another limitation with offline playback is causing grumbles: some content can only be downloaded a finite number of times a year.
As pointed out by Android Police, the notification appears without advanced warning, popping up only when you’re about to hit the download threshold. If you try to download after reaching the limit, you’ll receive an error.
Android Police doesn’t have an exact figure on what this limit is, placing an estimate at four to five downloads a year. It’s also not Netflix’s fault the limit exists, as it doesn’t own the vast majority of the content it offers, and so, it is beholden to rights holders.
What is incredibly annoying, though, is that there are multiple scenarios where these limits could kick in before you ever watch something offline. Some offline content expires in as little as 48 hours, for example, leaving a short viewing window that can be interrupted by things like, you know, life. And what about offline content deleted to free up storage that then can’t be re-downloaded?
It’s worth noting that Netflix does state on a help page regarding downloads: “Due to studio limits, you may not be able to renew all titles. If you are unable to renew a title but would still like to watch it, you’ll need to connect to the internet to stream.” So, this info isn’t new and Netflix sort of puts it out there, but even the help page suggests you might find this out after your initial download(s), not before. PSA — if you didn’t know before, now you do. Wee.
During Game of Thrones’ second season, Arya Stark famously tells Tywin Lannister, “Anyone can be killed.” No line better encapsulates the show. Over the course of six seasons, fans have seen kings and peasants killed so often that it’s a wonder that we’re not desensitized to it all. YouTube channel Leon Andrew Razon Compilations stitched together the show’s on-screen deaths and attempted to count them all, and even though it’s only an estimate, it’s a staggering number.
Including rough estimations of who died during large-scale battles and city sieges, the final tally comes out to 150,966 deaths. That’s a ludicrous number for a TV show, even though the editor is inflating the numbers a little by counting the unsettling number of bird, horse, sheep, and dire wolf deaths, too.
Watching all this bloodletting can be thrilling and / or depressing, depending whether, like me, you’re still sad about the deaths of a few favorite characters. (Margaery!) Just don’t take this as a complete death toll for the entire series, because there’s no way it’s even close. Elio Garcia, a research assistant for author George R.R. Martin, once estimated that Westeros’ entire population is approximately 40 million. The War of the Five Kings (the war where everyone wants to rule the kingdoms for occasionally justifiable reasons) pulled armies from across the continent into a multi-theater conflict, killing thousands over the course of several years. Imagine all the murders and beheadings we don’t see on the show. Like that time Gregor Clegane went reaving through the countryside before the war even started:
It isn’t crazy to think millions died over the years. The show just has to leave some things offscreen.
Season 7 starts in a month, and the so-called Great War is about to begin. It won’t just be kings and queens. It’ll be dragons and ice zombies. The death toll is only going to get higher. Just don’t try to keep count.
When it arrived in 2014, Warner Bros.’ Shadow of Mordor delivered a masterful action role playing game set in J.R.R. Tolkien’s Middle-earth. But the game offered just a hint of the developer’s actual vision, says Bob Roberts, the game’s design director. Shadow of Mordor told only about half of the story they originally envisioned, and its most novel design feature — the “nemesis system” that generates new stories for everyone who plays — was also pared back.
Middle-earth: Shadow of War, the sequel to be released this fall, offered an opportunity for Monolith Productions to fill in those blanks. Both the scope of the storytelling and the nemesis system have been greatly expanded, and they come together in the game’s fortress sieges — a series of epic, chaotic encounters that have been a highlight of this year’s E3.
Shadow of War picks up where Mordor left off, with the widowed ranger Talion still fused to the ghostly presence of Celebrimbor — an elf tricked by Sauron into forging the Rings of Power. (The story takes place between The Hobbit and The Fellowship of the Ring, but stands alone.)
As you fight your way through Middle-earth, you encounter nasty orcs known as Uruks who are hell-bent on killing you. If they succeed, they are promoted and gain new powers, making them more difficult to kill when you are reborn. Moreover, they’ll taunt you when you return, often in crudely hilarious terms. If you succeed, you can kill them — or you can take control of their minds and press them into your service.
In Mordor, you could use these dominated Uruks to trigger infighting within orc ranks. But in War, they become your army — and with the orcs at your side, you can storm entire fortresses and claim them for the Bright Lord.
At the suggestion of a Monolith employee, I started my time with War by attempting to seize a fortress. If Mordor was primarily a hack-and-slash affair, War demands a more tactical approach. First, I used some skill points to bolster Talion’s combat abilities. Next, I assigned four dominated Uruks to join me in battle, with each one leading dozens of orc soldiers. I could also designate one Uruk as my personal bodyguard, who I could call for assistance in battle with the press of a button.
Before the siege, War will show you the fortress’s defenses — its strengths, its weaknesses, and what sort of terrors are lurking inside. You can also spend in-game currency on items that will help you win — poisonous spiders who will eat away at your enemies’ health, for example, or a dragon who will roast everything in its path. When you’re ready, you tap a button and lead your army into battle.
Taking a fortress is a four-step process. First, you must capture three “victory points” scattered around the fortress. You do this by clearing out enemies with the help of your army. It’s tricky, though, because victory points are guarded by war chiefs — heavily armored Uruks who can take you out with just a few swings of their swords. Only after dispatching the chiefs can you challenge the fortress’s overlord to a fight, and you capture it by defeating him.
A more patient player might attempt to attack war chiefs when they’re away from their fortresses — though they will themselves be surrounded by well armed bodyguards. I was on a tighter time frame, and charged directly into battle — and quickly paid the iron price. War chiefs slaughtered me on each of two attempts to capture a fortress, and after a pair of defeats I waved a white flag and asked if I could play one of more manageable story missions. (It was delightful.)
But I’m eager to get back to the sieges, particularly during a proper playthrough when I’ve re-mastered the game’s controls and can take a more thoughtful approach to battle. Roberts tells me that most players will attempt their first siege only after several hours of gameplay — it’s meant to be a culmination, not an introduction. In a separate demonstration, I watched a Monolith employee successfully claim a fortress over about 20 minutes of gameplay, and it was thrilling to watch. Her team of Uruks stood up to their enemies with ease, and her clever attacks reduced the overlord to a pile of cinders.
Roberts tells me War’s best attribute is in the way its various systems collide — combat, role play, open-world questing, and the nemesis system, all working together to create a unique path for every player. It’s unpredictable in the best way, he says, before telling me a story about a recent moment in which a nearly-dead orc tried to retreat from Talion. “You haven’t seen the last of me,” the orc taunted — and as he was saying it, a giant beast known as a graug suddenly appeared, picked him up and ate him. The team at Monolith didn’t even know that could happen, Roberts says. “That may never happen again,” he adds. “But it happened for us. And it made our day.”


In summer 2014, an intern at the ACLU found a memo from a public meeting in which the San Jose Police Department asked to be reimbursed for a “UAV,” which he immediately recognized as a type of drone.
“It was tucked in the back of an agenda item,” says Nicole Ozer, director of technology and civil liberties policy for the ACLU of California. The City Council approved the purchase of the $8,000 drone as part of a million-dollar federal grant, but there had been no public debate over the merits of acquiring such a controversial piece of equipment.
Ozer asked community members if they knew about the drone purchase. “We thought maybe we just missed it but everyone else knew about it,” Ozer says. But no one they reached out to had any idea.
The incident confirmed a fear shared by civil liberties advocates: police departments around the country were buying surveillance equipment with FEMA homeland security grants with little oversight. Each year, over $1 billion of these grants are funneled to municipalities across the country, bypassing local budget processes and leaving community members in the dark about the acquisition of advanced surveillance arsenals. Cities in California have purchased or attempted to acquire drones, cellphone tower simulators, and other tools previously reserved for the federal government.
“We found, across the board, that even basic public conversation and debate was absent,” Ozer says.
The drone discovery was one of the events that led California’s Santa Clara County to become, in June 2016, the first in the country to pass an ordinance requiring transparency for police surveillance technology based on a recent ACLU model. The law requires public input, an impact report, and a use policy with details about data sharing before equipment is purchased. (Seattle passed a similar law in 2013, also with ACLU involvement, but its scope was limited to video surveillance.)
Last fall, the ACLU announced a nationwide strategy in partnership with over a dozen other civil liberties groups to promote similar bills in cities across the country. Called Community Control Over Police Surveillance, or CCOPS, the ACLU says there are bills with sponsors in 19 cities nationwide and one public transit system, the Bay Area’s BART. Chad Marlow, who is overseeing the nationwide strategy for CCOPS at the ACLU, says that organizing is underway in an additional 46 cities and one state, though he doesn’t expect them all to find sponsors.
In California, bills are up for debate in Oakland, Berkeley, San Francisco, and Palo Alto. Similar initiatives are underway in New York City, which will hold a hearing on June 14th, as well as smaller cities nationwide such as Somerville, Massachusetts; Madison, Wisconsin; and Richmond, Virginia.
Nicole Ozer says that over and over again she has seen communities fight back against the creep of surveillance technology. She believes ordinances like the one the ACLU is pushing are a first step to accomplish this.
“When communities know what’s happening, they are in a much better position to fight against it,” Ozer says. “You can’t fight what you don’t know.”
In Santa Clara County, where the law has been enforced since June 2016, community members say it’s working as intended, though the quality of use policies vary. After the law was introduced, 16 use policies were submitted at once for new and existing equipment. Some policies passed quickly with little scrutiny, while others were rejected; at least one policy passed despite public criticism.
When the Sheriff’s Department sought to fit officers with body-worn cameras, the ordinance required them to publicize a surveillance-impact statement and use policy before a scheduled public hearing. A draft use policy was deemed too broad by critics at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, ACLU, and CAIR, who voiced their objections in a letter to the Board of Supervisors. They took issue with the policy’s year-long data retention period, the ability of officers to view footage before giving testimony in certain situations, and lack of protections against biometric analysis like facial recognition.
Following an update on the use policy, the body-worn cameras were approved by the board of supervisors on January 24th, 2017. The new requirements prohibit the use of data for biometrics, requiring future approval from the county.
But when questions arose over a purchase enabling aerial infrared surveillance, the input of civil liberties advocates through the CCOPS process was brushed aside. In 2016, the Santa Clara Sheriff’s Department proposed a $620,000 purchase of an integrated helicopter mapping system that included a Forward Looking Infrared Imaging System, or FLIR, a type of thermal camera. The technology has been controversial since the early ‘90s, when the Supreme Court ruled that thermal imaging constituted a search requiring a warrant.
The use policy of the Sheriff’s Department and an early impact report approved a broad range of uses for the mapping system and thermal camera, and dismissed concerns about privacy as misinformed. Approved uses in the draft policy include “tracking suspects,” “evidence collection,” and, most vaguely, “other law enforcement or first responder uses not prohibited by law.”
That triggered a critical letter from the Electronic Frontier Foundation that called into question the necessity of the mapping system, arguing that aerial recordings of civilians created significant civil liberties problems. The letter was not enough to sway Santa Clara’s Board of Supervisors, and the Sheriff’s Department’s use policy stayed as is.
Adam Schwartz, a lead counsel at the Electronic Frontier Foundation who authored the letter to the board, says that both the body cam and the FLIR case are evidence that CCOPS is effective.
“We would never have known this was happening if it wasn’t for the ordinance,” Schwartz says. “In both instances, we think the system worked the way it’s supposed to work. We don’t just wake up as civilians and all of a sudden there’s a new mapping system on a helicopter, or a new body-worn camera on the officers. Rather there’s a notice to the public beforehand, and an opportunity for public discussion.”
Other community members reiterated that merely being able to ask questions about surveillance technology and have them answered is reassuring.
Sameena Usman is a coordinator at the Council of American-Islamic Relations’ Bay Area office, one of the groups that advocated for the ordinance in Santa Clara. Usman attended the hearing when the FLIR was discussed. To Usman, the value of the ordinance is that it mandates transparency.
“That transparency has built trust,” Usman says.
The ACLU’s Marlow says that support for CCOPS-modeled legislation has largely been bipartisan. “We face neither resistance from the left or right,” Marlow says. “The only place we face resistance is from the police.”
In Pensacola, Florida, a version of the ordinance is being sponsored by City Council member Jewel Cannada-Wynn, and it is backed the state’s NAACP chapter, as well as libertarian and Republican groups.
“How often do people from both parties agree on anything?” says Sara Latshaw, regional organizer for the ACLU in Northwest Florida, who is overseeing CCOPS in Florida.
Bill Fetke is a member of the Republican Liberty Caucus, a conservative grassroots group, and a supporter of the ordinance in Pensacola. He says he has confidence in local law enforcement, but opposes what he views as overreach by the state.
“There’s a camera watching you every five feet,” Fetke says. “I don’t do anything wrong, but I don’t want a camera staring at me every five seconds.”
Reaction from some conservatives he knows has been mixed, Fetke says.
“Most people kind of think I’m wearing a tinfoil hat,” he says. “They don’t think it applies to them. Even the libertarians who are in the middle aisle.” But he believes conservatives who don’t support the ordinance are thinking short-term.
“We need to force our government to follow rules,” Fetke says. “If we don’t stop them here, they’re going to trample all over our Fourth, Ninth, 10th Amendments.”
The spread in the use of body cameras by police departments across the country, often implemented with poor use policies, is another reason the surveillance bill is finding support. Promoted as accountability tools, departments also view body cameras as tools for gathering incriminating evidence, and most use policies make it difficult for family members of a victim in an officer-involved shooting to acquire footage.
In Hattiesburg, Mississippi, where a CCOPS ordinance is being sponsored, a police spokesman told the press that officers would use body cameras to gather evidence. “A lot of times we may not catch everything, but we can go back and look at it later,” the spokesman told the Hattiesburg American. A use policy for Hattiesburg’s body-worn cameras has never been made public. CCOPS legislation would force the department to release that policy.
Zaki Manian, of Restore The Fourth, a Bay Area-based civil liberties group, says organizations like his have a complicated relationship with body cameras. Manian believes they can be a tool for accountability, but mounting evidence suggests they could be used as just another surveillance technology.
“The only way you can ethically sort of balance these concerns is with consent of people in the community,” Manian says.
But even supporters of CCOPS admit the legislation has its limits. One fear is that the law would merely legitimize surveillance technologies that now exist in legal gray zones.
“When you pass a law, you create legality where there wasn’t,” says Malkia Cyril of the Center for Media Justice, a Bay Area nonprofit. “We create the legal framework where they can be legally abused.”
Cyril is opposed to police body cameras, and is skeptical that use policies, such as those arbitrated through CCOPS legislation, will be enough to rein in the abuse of surveillance in over-policed communities.
“Whether or not you have a use policy, does not mean there’s a way to enforce a use policy,” Cyril says.
“I can’t reiterate enough how dangerous it would be to me to if we rested on the laurels of a municipal policy. It’s insufficient. It’s important and insufficient,” Cyril says.
The limit of the ordinance is particularly visible in NYC, where the state’s constitution does not allow the City Council to veto NYPD purchases, and where pressure from a powerful police union has caused Mayor de Blasio, who campaigned on police reform, to bow to pressure more than once.
NYC’s CCOPS ordinance, dubbed the POST Act, is sponsored by 15 council members and is set for a City Council hearing on June 14th.
Like the ordinance in Santa Clara and bills elsewhere, it requires a use policy and public comment for the purchase of any surveillance equipment. But while the police commissioner would need to submit a use policy informed by public comments to the City Council, no city entity would need to approve a purchase. The only oversight would come from the NYPD Inspector General, an independent agency that audits the NYPD, which would be tasked with making sure the NYPD’s surveillance deployments are consistent with its own use policies. The process is similar to the public consultation that the NYPD undertook prior to rolling out a pilot body camera program in April. But that use policy came under criticism for not fully taking citizens’ opinions into account.
Nevertheless, proponents argue the legislation will promote transparency and force police departments to think critically about surveillance.
“It’s really about getting them to change the way they think,” says Brian Hofer of Oakland Privacy. He says in the months since the Santa Clara ordinance was put in place, he’s seen the use policies submitted by the police improve. It’s a sign, he suggests, that the law is working.
But the uncertainty as to whether the NYPD, or any police department across the country, will adhere to strengthened guidelines for their surveillance gear may be why advocates like Center for Media Justice’s Malkia Cyril are skeptical about an over-reliance on policy, while also acknowledging it as a necessary first step.
“Policy is one thing,” Cyril says. “Power is another.”

Call of Duty: WWII is supposed to be the Activision franchise’s back-to-basics moment: an opportunity to shed recent COD installments’ future-obsessed trappings and craft a “serious” shooter game against the backdrop of the world’s most horrific war. Developer Sledgehammer Games said as much here at E3 in Los Angeles. “Coming off of Advanced Warfare, it felt right for us,” says Aaron Halon, the game’s multiplayer lead, in an interview with The Verge. “We really want Call of Duty to get back to the grittiness, the brutality of war. That’s really what WWII did for our game.”
But judging from one recorded video of a campaign mission and some time with the game’s multiplayer mode this week at E3, COD: WWII comes across as just another shooter from the aging franchise. It doesn’t appear to have much to say about one of history’s most devastating conflicts — at least, nothing that hasn’t already been said by countless films, books, and television shows before it. And if WWII as a concept is supposed to revive COD as a game series, Sledgehammer doesn’t seem equipped to take the risks necessary to pull it off. Striking a balance between artful war commentary and mass-market pulp is hard enough. It becomes a daunting, perhaps impossible, task for a major game studio to do so with the expectation that it sell as many copies as Activision demands.
On one hand, sure: this is a shooter franchise, and COD’s primary mission has been to generate video game combat with ever-increasing technical sophistication. The kinds of personal and affecting stories that have defined the genre in other media have always taken a backseat to adrenalized thrill rides. (Sledgehammer made 2014’s Advanced Warfare, which featured exoskeletons and jetpacks, while developer Infinity Ward took the series to space in last year’s Infinite Warfare.) No one is expecting COD to outdo Saving Private Ryan in narrative ambition.
At the same time, Activision and Sledgehammer have sold this installment of COD as a kind of meditation on the costs of violence. “This global conflict was rooted in some true atrocities,” Sledgehammer co-founder Michael Condrey told Polygon in an interview earlier this year. “The story is anchored in some iconic moments in the war. The D-Day invasion in Normandy was one of those. There are also other things that make the war so powerful. The historical context of the atrocities of World War II is something that we want to tell the players.”
"We absolutely show atrocities," Bret Robbins, the game’s senior creative director, told Mashable back in April. "It's an unfortunate part of the history, but you can't tell an authentic, truthful story without going there. So we went there." But Sledgehammer has yet to disclose to what extent the game will acknowledge or feature, for example, any aspect of the Holocaust, one aspect WWII games have historically omitted.
So at first blush, Sledgehammer appears to have crafted something that feels less Spielberg and more Michael Bay. Big, explosive set pieces pause to showcase gruesome, dismemberment-heavy deaths. The stakes feel high in the way imminent death always does, and the action is compelling. But it’s not yet clear the game has the heart to hold it all together. You’re still basically just mowing down virtual human beings in ever-more-elaborate ways — throwing grenades over barricades, lighting men on fire, sniping heads from a bell tower — as you head from one objective marker to the next on a quest to save the world from bad guys.
The protagonist, a young Texan named Robert “Red” Daniels, is a fresh face for a COD game, even if he feels like a derivative Hollywood trope. Daniels is not a super soldier or a superhero, nor is he a grizzled war veteran. He’s just an everyday kid who gets tossed into the madness of WWII. Yet the game doesn’t give him, or you as the player, a directive other than to survive, kill, and advance. The primary perspective on view is that of the American soldier — a viewpoint that’s been explored time and again. (You will also get to play as a member of the French Resistance and a British officer, but it’s not apparent they serve a broader purpose other than to switch it up now and again.)
Contrast that with Electronic Arts’ Battlefield 1. That game, while mired by some of the same pitfalls that make mowing down armies of men a comically absurd chore, successfully strove to be a smarter breed of shooter. It balanced the genre’s intrinsic glorification of violence with a sense of disorientation that leaves you reeling and shell-shocked. Both in its single-player campaign and on the multiplayer front, BF1’s aesthetic and narrative choices made clear how the conflicts of the 20th century devalued human life. It was, at times, an anti-war message trapped in a best-selling FPS.
This is not to say that COD: WWII is not fun or entertaining. The game’s new multiplayer war mode, which has one team fighting to hold its ground while another advances, is exhilarating. The combat feels smooth, and the new class and weapons systems feel distinctive. COD still manages to be just fast-paced and intense enough to get your adrenaline pumping.
COD as a franchise made its mark on the first-person shooter genre — before it rose to record-breaking heights with 2007’s Modern Warfare — with three full games set during WWII. That it has returned again smacks of creative exhaustion.
Returning to its roots and “putting boots back on the ground,” as company representatives like to say, may be a convenient way to court back disaffected fans. But it’s not clear those fans will be returning to something drastically different. COD: WWII may feature all the old battlefields and weapons you see on the History Channel. But it feels, for now, like a shooter game in desperate need of a soul.

For the first time ever, Grammy voters for the 2018 awards show will cast their votes online, instead of with paper ballots. The Recording Academy hopes the swap will increase voter turnout and encourage younger members to vote, the LA Times reports.
The new online ballots will also give eligible voters the option to listen to the songs that have been nominated, as a way of encouraging voters to actually listen to the artists they’re voting for, BuzzFeed News reports.
One of the most common criticisms of the music awards show — from both artists and fans — is that it’s out-of-touch. The night’s biggest awards often seem to go to the most popular or recognizable artists, frequently snubbing critic- and fan-favorites. In 2014, Mackelmore’s The Heist won Best Rap Album over Kendrick Lamar’s Good Kid M.A.A.D. City — a snub that even Mack saw fit to publicly and dramatically apologize for. Last year, after Adele’s 25 won Album of the Year, she said, “My album of the year is Lemonade,” referring to Beyoncé’s critically adored visual album. Frank Ocean chose not to submit his album Blonde for Grammy nomination last year, telling The New York Times, “I think the infrastructure of the awarding system and the nomination system and screening system is dated.”
According to BuzzFeed News, the Recording Academy hopes that if its younger members turn out to vote online, the awards might more accurately reflect the listening habits of younger generations.
"There may be certain genres within our awards categories where the demographic that tends to participate in making that particular music might be more tech savvy in general, or might have more of a mobile lifestyle than certain other genres, and we think this might appeal to those folks,” Recording Academy VP Bill Freimuth told BuzzFeed News.
The internet has been proven to appeal to a lot of folks. The 60th Grammy Awards are scheduled to take place on January 28th, 2018 in New York City.
Marissa Mayer is no longer the CEO of Yahoo, following the company’s acquisition by Verizon. And as such, Mayer is not only a job-free woman, she is also no longer bound to Yahoo’s product portfolio. That’s right, she can use Gmail, and she’s psyched about it. At a conference in London today, Mayer reportedly said she is “looking forward to going back to Gmail” because she’s “always faster when using a tool I designed myself.”
"I'm looking forward to going back to Gmail"; @marissamayer on life post-Yahoo #fflondon
Marissa Mayer at accelerateHER forum: "I look forward to using Gmail again. Am always faster when using a tool I designed myself"#FFLondon
Dang! Shade! Remember, Mayer spent 13 years at Google managing multiple products, including search and Google Doodles. She was employee #20 at the company when she was hired in 1999, right out of Stanford. We’re all happy for you, Marissa. Enjoy Gmail’s suggested responses and labels and stay far, far away from sad Yahoo Mail.
Update 12:34 PM ET: Mayer tweeted that she plans to keep her Yahoo Mail account and credited its team for improving it.
I will continue to use the excellent Yahoo Mail too.  The team's hard work paid off with a dramatically better product. https://t.co/ZQyTvjULlW
It isn’t clear how she’ll use her email, although we do all need a burner account for random list servs and newsletter sign-ups.
There have been a lot of ultrawide monitors hitting the market recently, but Dell has been the king of the space (followed closely by LG) since the standard was introduced. Now the company is back with a massive, 38-inch curved ultrawide monitor, and I need one very badly.
The Dell UltraSharp 38 Curved Monitor (U3818DW) ticks nearly every box you want checked in a monitor this size if you’re looking for a productivity display. It features a 3440 x 1440 resolution, a 100w USB-C connection that can charge your laptop while transmitting data, and integrated dual 9w speakers.
The only downside here is the price, as the U3818DW comes in at a hefty $1,499. You can purchase the Dell UltraSharp 38 Curved Monitor on Dell.com beginning on June 23rd.
As NASA works toward sending people into deep space, the agency is looking for new types of space habitats that astronauts can live in far from Earth. One company, Nanoracks, has a design idea in mind — but rather than build something completely new, the company has a bold plan to recycle space hardware to create living quarters. Their plan: turn used rocket tanks into suitable places for deep-space explorers to live.
And now, Nanoracks has signed a contract with NASA to start turning this habitat concept into reality. Last summer, the company was one of six picked to be part of the second round of NASA’s NextSTEP program, an initiative to create concepts and ground prototypes of novel deep-space habitats. Now with a finalized contract, Nanoracks can get to work on developing its concept, called Ixion, and eventually turning a spent rocket tank into a habitat that can then be tested out in space.
Basically, the company just wants to utilize hardware that would otherwise go to waste. When a satellite launches on top of a rocket, the probe is typically delivered into its final orbit by the vehicle’s upper stage — the top section of the rocket that contains its own separate engine(s) and fuel. That means the upper stage usually orbits along with the satellite after it’s been deployed from the rocket. By the time it’s in orbit, most of propellant in the stage’s tank has been depleted, which creates a whole lot of empty space that is going unused.
If these stages go to a low enough orbit, they’re usually deorbited on purpose; any remaining propellant is used to redirect the stage toward Earth and have it burn up in the atmosphere. That way they don’t add to the growing amount of space debris already around Earth. But instead of getting rid of these stages, Nanoracks wants to keep them in orbit and then refurbish them, turning them into something completely new. “We’re augmenting what already exists,” Mike Johnson, chief designer at NanoRacks, tells The Verge. “You kind of double down for your money.”
The plan would be to vent the rest of the propellant out into space, making the tank completely empty. Or if the rocket uses cryogenic propellants, as many modern vehicles do, then the materials will boil off after a few days as the stage orbits Earth and is heated up by the Sun. Once the tank is completely empty, Nanoracks will fill it with pressurized air from smaller vessels attached to the outside. In fact, each of these tanks-turned-habitats will have smaller modules attached to the outside, containing vital supplies like life support systems and cargo that can be used to make the tank a viable place to live. The modules can also be used to attach the stage to other habitats already in space.
After the tank is pressurized, then it’s time to send in a crew — either humans or robots — to outfit the inside. Most propellant tanks are equipped with small hatches, and the company plans to add docking tunnels to these hatches to allow crews to get inside the tanks. They’ll then bring in foldable fabrics to make the interior a little more astronaut-friendly and comfier than just an empty metal structure. “The outfitting equipment is pretty lightweight; it’s made out of fabric and built in wiring,” says Johnson. “Compared to other ways of creating habitable space, it’s really a cheap way to do it — in terms of cheap in mass, cheap in cost, and cheap volume.”
It’ll be a while before such habitats are open for new tenants though. For now, Nanoracks is focused on developing the concept further and creating a prototype on the ground. After that, the team will try to refurbish a tank within one of the upper stages made by the United Launch Alliance, called Centaur. This stage is currently used on the Atlas V rocket and will soon be used on the company’s next vehicle called Vulcan. They then hope to attach this refurbished tank to the International Space Station for testing. And if all goes well, the tank may just stay there. “A secondary objective is that we could leave it there and potentially create a commercial space station module on the ISS,” says Johnson.
Nanoracks is aiming to get the tank habitat to the ISS in the next four years or so, says Johnson. But for now, the company is focused on this first contract with NASA, which involves doing a study on the concept’s feasibility. Out of all the other companies in the NextSTEP program, Nanoracks is the only company that plans to outfit used tanks, and Johnson hopes that will give them a lot of flexibility moving forward. “Anything that uses an upper stage could use this concept,” he says. “It really fits in everywhere.”






Patreon, the subscription-based funding platform that supports creators like Amanda Palmer and the Kinda Funny team, is getting a major update that includes live-streaming capabilities and a new visual design. Patreon co-founder Jack Conte says the features are intended to give creators more ways to engage directly with their patrons, while also giving them more ways to analyze and keep track of their subscriber base. They’ve been tested with a limited number of people on the platform, but will now be rolling out on a large scale.
One of the additions is a new app called “Lens,” which Conte describes as something like Snapchat or Instagram Stories, but limited to Patreon subscribers. The app “makes it really easy for creators to give patrons a window into their life and share videos and photos,” says Conte. It’s currently in beta, and will be released slowly over the next six months.
In addition to the Lens app, Patreon is partnering with a streaming company called Crowdcast to enable patron-only live videos. And creators will now be able to give subscribers early access to Patreon posts before they go live more widely. On the purely internal side, Patreon will offer creators access to a “patron relationship manager” — basically, a database with detailed information about subscribers. “You can just look at all the patrons who joined in the last two weeks and send them a gift, or look at all your patrons who recently hit their six-month anniversary and invite them to a live stream,” says Conte.
Creators could do all the things above before the update, and many already do. Crowdcast has advertised its services on the Patreon blog, and more generally, patrons pay to get closer access to creators, as well as a look at early or unfinished work. The point of this update, says Conte, is to make the process much easier. The early-access system, for example, will let them create one post and automatically open it after a certain period of time, instead of posting multiple updates or manually changing the access settings. Similarly, the patron relationship manager will replace the process of downloading and sorting through spreadsheets with subscriber info.
Things like the live-streaming system aren’t meant to substitute for a service like Twitch, and Conte says that Patreon isn’t meant to become a place where creators will host their main artistic output. But the company is trying to handle all the interactions between artists and fans, not just the money that passes between them.
Along with the updates, Patreon is announcing several new high-profile creators joining the platform, including McSweeney’s Internet Tendency and comedian Bill Burr. According to recently released statistics, the platform hosts 50,000 active creators and recently passed one million active patrons, who pay an average of $12 monthly. It’s currently on track to deliver creators $150 million in 2017, compared to $100 million total between its launch in mid-2013 and the end of 2016, and Conte says the site revamp is meant to provide a more professional feel. “It feels much more like, you know, a place to run a business — a place to actually make money and get paid and run a membership platform,” he says.
There's a peculiar dynamic going on in Los Angeles this week, as E3 — the biggest gaming showcase of them all — is taking place and, once again, paying little attention to the hugely profitable mobile games market. By most estimates, mobile gaming is generating in excess of $30 billion per year, and it's projected to eclipse consoles and the PC as the single most lucrative platform for games. And yet, cast your eye across the vast gaming landscape of E3 and you'll see mobile as only a space filler in between the traditional AAA blockbusters and barnburners. Why, I wondered, does the form of gaming we're increasingly spending the majority of our time and money on get so little hype and attention?
I realize that, on one interpretation, this question is tantamount to asking why there are no Oscars for YouTubers. And I want to encourage that interpretation! Because, seriously, why are there no Academy Awards for the work people publish on YouTube? Some of the cinematography and performances I've seen inside Google's bottomless pit of user-uploaded content now rival the best Hollywood has to offer. And, moreover, YouTubers are rarely as inane and uncreative as the latest Tom Cruise summer flick or yet another shakedown of the Pirates of the Caribbean money tree. My instinctive answer with regard to both E3 and the Oscars is that it's simply a matter of inertia. That's the way we've always done things.
Others will tell you that it's more complicated than that. The economics of mobile games are vastly different to those of flagship PC and console titles. Free-to-play games, even hugely successful ones like Dota 2 and League of Legends on PC, have never garnered much stage time at E3. And the big moneymakers on the mobile front are almost all free-to-play, with in-app purchases and upgrades making up the bulk of their income. It's tricky to figure out a sizzle reel for hot new IAPs. Tricky, I would argue, but not impossible.
2016's biggest gaming sensation was undoubtedly Pokémon Go. It was a massive global success, estimated to have produced nearly $1 billion in revenue in 2016 alone, and it was socially transformative, too, dragging many of us out of the house and giving us a reason to talk to strangers with a shared interest. At E3 that year, Nintendo wasn't afraid to give Pokémon Go its due time in the spotlight. Now, of course, Pokémon hype is a whole thing unto itself, but I think more companies should embrace the model set by Nintendo and commit to promoting their mobile games on an equal footing to their desktop and console titles. Hell, I'd at least like to see Nintendo keep it up, but the company's reverted to spending all its E3 time talking about its Switch console.
There's honestly little to lose by communicating to your players in the language they understand and giving them the game experiences they actually want.
I recall an old Malcolm Gladwell talk where he recounted some unintuitive statistical findings by researchers. If you ask people what type of coffee they favor, he pointed out, they all say something along the lines of a dark, rich, hearty roast. When you look at what they actually buy and prefer, however, it turns out the answer is a weak and milky coffee. Without wishing to offend mobile game makers, that's where we are today: with mobile games being the mild and milky coffee we actually consume but don't feel exceedingly proud to admit to liking. E3 still thinks all we're after is the glitz and violence of AAA console titles, and the real world is instead tapping away in Clash of Clans.
E3 doesn't need to be entirely transformed, but I do think it can make some changes to better reflect the way that most of us game nowadays. To do otherwise would be to accept an increasingly niche role in the wider gaming landscape. I've got a huge water-cooled gaming tower of doom at home, but I also have a stupidly powerful smartphone in my pocket — and it's the latter that now garners more of my time and attention. So if the established gaming companies are not going to try and capitalize on that new opportunity, odds are that I'll end up spending more time in the realms created by small-scale developers like the people behind Egg Inc. and Tap Tap Fish.
Alas, E3 is a show tailored to the long lead times and slow-burning buildup of $60 titles that are months away from release. The resources committed to the promotion of those games still dwarf anything invested in hyping up mobile games, and the reality is that my dream scenario of E3 as the all-inclusive gaming extravaganza is unlikely to ever happen.
I'd love to one day attend E3 with the assignment of covering only mobile games and to feel as overwhelmed with new stuff as my colleagues covering console and PC launches. But at E3 2017, we had very little of that: just the announcement of a new South Park game, a trailer for a new Alto game, Alto's Odyssey, and the utterly inexcusable travesty that is Garfield Go. Compare that against the glories of Anthem or that gorgeous Beyond Good & Evil 2 trailer, which showed zero gameplay, but was still thrilling to watch and appreciate. All I'm asking is a little bit of that extra love for the mobile gamers out there, for we are legion and we like to be flattered with beautiful imagery and hype-building showpieces just as much as our console-playing brethren.
Here’s a good meme to start your day with: it’s the “the floor is [fill in the blank]” meme, which is a spinoff of the very imaginative childhood game every person on Earth individually came up with, the “the floor is lava game.”
According to Know Your Meme, “the floor is” originated with this April 2016 tweet:
Me: I'm gonna go to sleep early this weekMe Tuesday @ 3am: pic.twitter.com/qL2K2yWZX3
The photos in this tweet are the most commonly used, with some Photoshop variations. But the meme didn’t really take off until the addition of other images last week. This is the first one I saw, and it seems to have spread the farthest:
the floor is men pic.twitter.com/BTRsthaqIl
Here are some more good ones.
The floor is a normal sleeping schedule, clear skin, nice body, and money in my bank account pic.twitter.com/KB5ddw3SD9
the floor is replying to texts days, even weeks late with "just now seeing this" pic.twitter.com/2K2JDGFQ5y
THE FLOOR IS UNCONDITIONAL LOVE  pic.twitter.com/1NQ1oyP2bJ
the floor is 8 hours of sleep pic.twitter.com/ydCfLHJO1t
Do you get the joke yet? The floor can be anything. If you like the thing that’s on the floor, you dive toward it, or in the case of this kind of gross example, you whack the floor with your pelvis. If you don’t like the thing, or you think the thing is impossible, you stay as far away from the floor as possible! The joke is limited only by the number of nouns in the universe, and by how long it takes us to get bored with it.
Related
According to our pals over at the MemeEconomy subreddit, there’s still time to enjoy this meme before it’s ruined by the mainstream media. (I’m sorry!) In their words: “‘The floor is’ memes on the rise! BUY! BUY! BUY!” So if you’ve got a good idea for “the floor is,” maybe do it now before the moment passes.
the floor is having to voice an opinion on literally any social issue because youre a full grown adult with a massive audience pic.twitter.com/vVHQYYQKpl
Anyway, you get it. But before you run off to scale a wall and go viral, I’d like you to hear me out as I apologize to former One Direction member Liam Payne — not for referring to the video for his debut solo song “Strip That Down” as “four Old Navy commercials from 2007 smashed together,” but for making fun of an Instagram video that he captioned “the floor is lava” last week.
okay why are you jumping INTO lava liam??? how are you pushing off of a liquid to jump into the air/??? pic.twitter.com/P9LsTTtz0w
The video still doesn’t make any sense, but at least now I know he was trying to participate in a viral internet trend, likely at the behest of whoever’s in charge of his weird career these days. He’s a dad now, and I can’t really expect him to execute memes perfectly.
To clarify: “The floor is” meme is different than the #TheFloorIsLavaChallenge, which started on YouTube and isn’t that funny to me. YouTubers who encourage their young viewers to do elaborate pranks that require athleticism and rule-breaking worry me a lot. And, as a new father, I think Liam would feel the same.
Instagram is adding a new label to better differentiate paid-for posts from regular content. The label — which features the words “Paid partnership with...” — will appear above sponsored posts and stories created by celebrities and other users promoting brands or products over the coming weeks.
The addition comes in the same week that a report claimed that 93 percent of paid-for posts made by Instagram’s most popular users were not labeled according to FTC guidelines. The report, put together by marketing firm Mediakix, looked at Instagram’s 50 most-followed accounts and found that 61 percent of sponsored posts were related to the fashion industry. BuzzFeed’s Katie Notopoulos broke this data down further, splitting the posts into four categories: posts that failed to disclose a long-term sponsorship (49 percent of posts), the receipt of an expensive one-off gift (16 percent), a cheaper gift (12 percent), or single pay-to-post ads (12 percent).
FTC guidelines state that sponsored posts must have clear reference to the fact they serve as paid advertising, either with words like “sponsored by” in the accompanying text, or by using hashtags like #ad. Prolific Instagram users have previously found ways around this system, however, using vaguer hashtags like #sp or #partner.
The FTC sent notices to 90 Instagram users in April this year, to remind them to clearly disclose any “material connection” they may have with a brand or company. Some of the letters referenced these vague hashtags, saying that consumers aren’t likely to understand inclusions like “#sp” as indication of a paid sponsorship. They also noted that consumers are likely to skip over sponsorship hashtags when they were included in a group of more standard tags.
By putting the notification above the image or story, rather than in the description below, Instagram’s new system should make it clearer for followers to pick out paid-for posts. Of course, users will still have to choose to include the label when making their posts — potentially leaving the door open for more surreptitious advertising — but the service has a solid reason for businesses to want to clearly state their connections.
Metrics for posts with the “Paid partnership with...” label will be available to both user and advertiser, allowing them to see just how wide a reach they get for their marketing money. The creator of a post will be able to see metrics inside of Instagram itself, while business partners will be able to view it through the Facebook Page Insights apps.
Update June 14th, 10:31AM ET: Instagram has clarified where users and businesses will be able to view metrics on sponsored posts.
Razer has been making great laptops for a while with its Blade line. But whether you’re looking at the more portable Razer Blade Stealth or hefty Razer Blade Pro, Razer’s computers all share a similar flaw: the neon green accents, rainbow LED lights, and giant glowing snake logo. While the hardware may match up to other high-end laptops, the Blade line tends to look like a toy compared to offerings from Apple, Microsoft, or Dell.
But at E3 this year, Razer is announcing an updated version of the Blade Stealth that not only fixes the problem of presentability, but also almost every other issue that plagued Razer’s smallest laptop.
The most obvious change to the new Blade Stealth is both the least and most important: Razer is giving the range a new, more professional look. The gunmetal gray variant ditches the glowing Razer logo for a more subtle two-tone one, and swaps the rainbow backlight keys for regular white ones. Razer says that the gunmetal version is specifically designed for customers who want a more professional look from their computers, and, having been able to see a pre-production model of the new color in person, it certainly looks more suited to a work setting than Razer’s original version.
But Razer is also upgrading the Blade Stealth on the hardware front, too. The Blade Stealth now comes in two screen configurations: a full 4K 12-inch panel, which Razer had previously offered, and a new 3200 x 1800, 13.3-inch display that cuts the large bezels in half while keeping the rest of the body of the laptop the same size. The trackpad, which was a particular pain point on the earlier models, has finally been replaced with a Windows Precision Trackpad, which should make the experience of using it better. And Razer is boosting the RAM as well — the Blade Stealth now offers 16GB as standard, instead of only on the top configuration.
The 13.3-inch model starts at $1,399 for a 256GB model and tops out at $1,999 for a 1TB version, while the 12-inch, 4K version offers a choice between a $1,599 computer with 512GB of storage and a 1TB version at $1,999. All models of the updated Stealth offer a seventh-generation Intel Core i7 7500U processor clocked at 2.7GHz, and feature integrated Intel HD Graphics 620.
Between the new hardware that addresses most, if not all of the pain points of the previous model, and a new design that acknowledges that people may want to use Razer’s laptops in a professional setting, the updated Blade Stealth is a good sign from Razer that it’s finally growing up.
The updated Razer Blade Stealth will be available in the standard black color scheme in both the 12-inch and 13.3-inch models on June 14th, with the gunmetal variants  arriving later this summer.

U.S. President Donald Trump has announced his intent to nominate Jessica Rosenworcel to fill the open Democratic slot at the Federal Communications Commission.
The selection — revealed quietly, late Tuesday night — marks a return to battle for Rosenworcel at the telecom agency: She served in that same role at the FCC from 2012 to 2016, only departing the commission because Senate lawmakers could not extend her term before the clock ran out at the end of the year.
In her previous stint at the agency, Rosenworcel had been a vocal, ardent supporter of net neutrality, and she voted for rules — drafted by then-FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler — to subject internet providers to utility-like regulation. This time, however, the agency’s new leader, Republican Chairman Ajit Pai, is looking to scrap those open internet protections.
Otherwise, Rosenworcel has been a forceful, public advocate for FCC policies and programs that seek to close the “homework gap,” as she calls it — the broad disparities in broadband internet service that make it difficult for students, particularly in rural areas, to do their schoolwork.
In the weeks before Trump’s official announcement, Rosenworcel had been widely viewed as the front-runner for her party’s open slot at the FCC, sources previously told Recode. She had the public backing of many congressional Democrats, including Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer, who formally recommended her to Trump for the open FCC post.
Sources also had expected Trump to announce Rosenworcel along with a nominee for the FCC’s other open slot — a Republican seat — and it had been widely believed that Brendan Carr, the general counsel at the FCC, would win that position.
Typically, such nominees are paired up in order to improve their chances of a swift confirmation by an ever-partisan U.S. Senate. But Trump opted not to announce his Democratic and Republican nominees together on Tuesday night. That could stoke speculation that Trump actually sees Rosenworcel as a replacement for sitting Democratic Commissioner Mignon Clyburn, whose term expires at the end of June.
The White House, for its part, previously has not indicated if it would renominate Clyburn to her post — and a spokeswoman did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment Wednesday. Without Clyburn or some other Democrat, the FCC would not meet its three-member quorum, preventing it from acting on certain policy issues — including, perhaps, net neutrality.
Sign up for our Recode Daily newsletter to get the top tech and business news stories delivered to your inbox.
When Google curtailed its Nexus program last year in favor of the Pixel, many commentators dismissed that as merely a rebranding exercise to make the latest thing feel fresh. I was in the minority that bought into Google's promise of a fundamentally different approach that would signal a direct challenge to Apple's iPhone, but the Pixel was still just the beginning. What we're seeing in recent times, in the ever-swirling rumor mill and through Google's hiring of new engineers, indicates the depth of Google's commitment to taking on Apple at its own game.
I wrote about this at length back in October: the big difference for Apple isn't just software, hardware, or customer service, it's all of those combined. Apple's unmatched strength is in the integration of all the important aspects that go toward building up a satisfying user experience, and it's long been true that the only company that could hope to match Apple was Google, owing to its dominance on the software front with the Android OS. The Pixel showed that Google was willing and able to produce a premium, uniquely differentiated phone (the Pixel camera remains unmatched, many months later), but it obviously wasn't the finished product of Google's grander project.
Apple's hardware lead is built atop a tight control, often monopolization, of its component supply chain. That's exactly where Google looks to be headed, with recent rumors and leaks indicating that the Mountain View company is working hard to secure a reliable source of OLED displays for a presumed Pixel successor with minimal screen bezels in the same vein as the Samsung Galaxy S8 and LG G6. That's why indications of an LG-produced Google phone for later this year make so much sense: it's not impossible for Google to still use HTC as its manufacturing partner and source panels from LG Display (which is nominally independent from LG Electronics), but it's more complicated than just going all-in with the Korean supplier.
Just like Apple, Google commands vast reserves of cash that it can deploy to help smooth out its supply deals, and that's exactly what its reported investment in LG Display is building toward. If the original Pixel was a trial run to test out what it's like to source and assemble all your own components, Google's big lesson from it was that demand for its phones will be high — and disappointment in the event of shortages would be even higher. Unlike Apple, Google doesn't yet have the promise of enormous unit sales to dangle as a carrot in front of potential suppliers, but that is liable to change dramatically with this year's Pixel, which would presumably enjoy much wider distribution and marketing than the original.
Two things were revealed yesterday: one is that Google is designing its own system on a chip (SoC) for future mobile devices, and the other is that the lead architect for that project is a man named Manu Gulati, who, until very recently, had been a senior engineer at Apple. Both of these are massive developments, showing that Google won't be content until it has maximum control over every aspect of its smartphone — exactly the same goal that Apple pursues with every new generation of iPhone — and furthermore underlining the level of ambition by poaching away someone who would surely have needed a lot of incentive to leave a job at Apple.
The SoC is the processing heart that powers the vast majority of functions of any modern smartphone, tablet, or smart speaker. Qualcomm's Snapdragon is the most famous and widely used example, Samsung's Exynos is a comparable competitor, and Apple's A series of SoCs are the current gold standard, delivering unmatched performance and efficiency. If Google is determined to not be dependent on another company's whims or fortunes, having its own SoC is an essential part of its future business as a mobile hardware vendor.
The current Pixel is built around the Snapdragon 821 chip — its speed and feature-rich architecture contribute to the excellent Pixel camera — but the instructive example for Google to beware is the Snapdragon 810. Qualcomm had a ton of overheating issues with that piece of silicon, sufficient for Samsung to skip using that chip at all in its Galaxy S6, and Google can't afford to find itself in a similar situation with the Snapdragon 845 or whatever there is down the line. So Google is now building its own SoC, as fully evidenced by its litany of job listings attesting to that ambition.
Beside freeing itself of the unpredictability of relying on other companies for critical components, Google's effort to control all the hardware inside its future devices will help it create more tailored, custom solutions. For instance, look at the way that notifications on the Samsung Galaxy S8 are signaled with a pulse of blue light tracing its way around the edges of its almost bezel-less display — that's nowhere near as impressive on a phone without the S8's sleek design. The coherence and synergy that can be drawn from hardware and software designers working in concert is best demonstrated by Apple, naturally, but I can envision future Google devices that have custom processing modules specifically to power Google's magical camera algorithms. How much better and faster would the Pixel be if its internal components were each designed for specific tasks instead of built to fulfill a generic set of requirements?
We don't know what difference a Google SoC would make to future Pixel phones, but it's obvious that Google is determined to find out. It's probably safe to presume Google is doing similar work to lock down its supply chain for less glamorous parts, like batteries and vibration engines and so on, and not all of it will be ready to debut by this year's end when the Pixel successor comes out. In fact, it's a practical certainty that Google's mobile processor is years away from making its debut in a consumer product, but that just goes to underline that Google is in this for the long haul. The Android maker has decided that building its own version of the iPhone is the best way to compete with the iPhone.
After years of neglect, Metroid is back: yesterday Nintendo revealed two new entries in the iconic sci-fi exploration series. One, Metroid Prime 4 on Switch, isn’t due for some time. But the Nintendo 3DS title Samus Returns is launching on September 15th, and it’s not just the first proper Metroid game since 2010 — it’s also a return to the series’s roots. Samus Returns is a remake of Metroid II on the original Game Boy, and it’s the first traditional 2D Metroid release in over a decade. The announcement may have come as a surprise to many, but it’s far from a new idea for series co-creator Yoshio Sakamoto. “I’ve been wanting to create a 2D Metroid for a while,” he says.
I had a chance to play through a 20-minute demo that represented the opening sequence of the game. Just like in the original Metroid II, Samus Returns opens with the titular bounty landing on the desolate planet SR388, and then exploring hostile caves home to angry aliens, including energy-sucking metroids. As in most Metroid games, you start pretty powerless; you need to seek out abilities like the morph ball and charge shot, which in turn help you open up new areas to explore. Samus Returns is a 2D game that features three-dimensional graphics, but the more detailed visuals don’t slow down the pace at all. In fact, Samus Returns is a much tighter action experience compared to the now-ancient Metroid II. Samus can now aim in any direction, and chain together attacks; if you time it right you can bat away an enemy and then immediately blast it with a critical laser shot. It feels fast and fluid, with a sense of immediacy that fits well with the series.
Outside of its tighter action and more detailed visuals, Samus Returns also includes a number of enhancements based around the 3DS hardware. For one thing, it’s the rare game that actually makes great use of the handheld’s glasses-free 3D effect, lending a sense of depth to the world. I found myself stopping to catch details in the background, like the corpses of unlucky cave explorers, and — unlike almost every other 3DS game I’ve played — I didn’t want to turn the 3D effect off. Meanwhile, the second screen is also put to use by displaying the in-game map at all times, making exploration a little easier. You can even place pins on the map, just like in Breath of the Wild, to remember areas you might want to explore later. (Sakamoto says he “wasn’t actually aware” of that feature being in the latest Legend of Zelda game.)
Sakamoto served as the designer on the original Metroid, and he directed its successor, Super Metroid. But he didn’t actually work on Metroid II. That said, he believes the portable game has an important place within the series — which is one of the main reasons he wanted to remake it. “In terms of Metroid II, that was a Game Boy game. It was quite a while back, and it hadn’t been revisited,” he explains. “Metroid II I feel has a really important place in the Metroid franchise’s history. It introduces us to baby metroid for the first time, and there are a lot of important elements in that title.” While Sakamoto is helming the production, the game is actually being developed as a collaboration between Nintendo and Spanish studio Mercury Steam, whose best-known work is arguably the Castlevania reboot Lords of Shadow in 2010. “It’s this really nice meld of each company’s experience and ideas, and the flavors that we bring to the series,” Sakamoto says of the collaborative process between the two developers.
Of course, as with any reimagining, there’s always the potential that any new features in Samus Returns could dilute the essence of the original experience. Metroid is known for its challenging gameplay and moody atmosphere, and with better aiming, faster action, and a more useful map, it’s possible that some of that feeling will be lost in Samus Returns. It’s a question the development team struggled with when they started working on the game two years ago. “What do we do to preserve some of that originality yet add to it?” asks Sakamoto. “I think the key is that you’re only adding things that improve upon that core concept. You’re not changing things just to change things. It’s really not that different from creating a game from scratch — you’re just looking to build something fun and enjoyable.”
Metroid: Samus Returns is a game that fans have been asking for for quite some time. And for Sakamoto, announcing the title yesterday provided a profound sense of relief — it’s both a game fans were clamoring for and a game he yearned to make. “I’ve had this sense of anticipation,” he says of the E3 reveal. “I wanted to talk about it, I wanted to tell people that we’re doing this.”
Everyone loves a good supercar: gorgeous, aerodynamic, laughably out of reach for almost everyone on the planet. We love to drool over photos of these cars, fully aware that we’ll probably never drive one. McLaren wants to change that perception with the release of the 2018 570S Spider, calling it the “most attainable” sports car ever.
This model is the third body type in McLaren’s Sport series portfolio, which includes the 570S Coupe and the 570GT. (We last saw the 570S Coupe at the 2015 New York Auto Show, and were appropriately bowled over by it.) The 570S Spider will make its global debut at the Goodwood Festival of Speed, which will be held in the UK June 29th–July 2nd.
The 570S Spider is motivated by a 562-horsepower, 3.8-liter twin-turbo V8 engine. The 0–60 mph comes in 3.1 seconds with a top speed of 204 mph. Those acceleration specs are a fraction slower than the 675LT Spider, but identical to the 570S Coupe. One of the neatest features is the 570S Spider’s retractable, hardtop roof that takes 15 seconds to open or close and can be engaged at vehicle speeds of up 25 mph. Top speed with the top down is 196 mph, so hang on to your hat.
McLaren says the first 400 units of the 570S Spider will be “launch edition models,” and will be priced at $208,000 each. That’s almost $200,000 less than the 675LT Spider and $120,000 less than the 650S Spider. So attainable! The convertible comes in two colors: “Sicilian Yellow” and “Vega Blue.”
Up until the official start of E3 on Tuesday, Nintendo’s presence has been limited to appearing on the stages of other companies. Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, confirmed with an appearance from Shigeru Miyamoto himself at Ubisoft’s press conference, is being produced by that publisher. Downloadable Zelda-themed Skyrim items appeared during the Bethesda event. And a giant Switch showed up in Microsoft’s presentation on Minecraft.
No wonder Nintendo didn’t bother with a big stage show at E3. Once again, the company opted for a prerecorded 30-minute Nintendo Direct stream, filled with announcements and gameplay footage.
The idea that E3 can be “won” grows more dubious every year, and comparing Nintendo with the likes of Sony or Microsoft is a fool’s errand. Those two companies go toe-to-toe over 4K, console exclusives, and who has the most teraflops of processing power in their latest machines. Nintendo’s announcements often feel more like the company is in competition with itself. Which announcement features the cutest stuff? Is it the amiibo? An old franchise reimagined with clay or yarn? Mario’s personified hat?
Nintendo doesn’t care about having the most powerful console ever; it just wants to rekindle childlike glee.
And, it works. Sometimes.
Nintendo’s presence on the E3 show floor is impossible to miss. Following in the footsteps of last year’s Breath of the Wild-themed exhibit, Nintendo has opted for a re-creation of New Donk City — the New York knockoff featured in Super Mario Odyssey.
By opening its doors to the public for the first time ever, E3 is on its way to becoming more of a show about fan service than ever before. The event now seems to be competing with fan conventions like Comic-Con or PAX. Lavish installations are not new to E3, but they’re increasingly extravagant. And Nintendo might just have the most impressive one at the show this year. It helps to have a strong new franchise like Mario preparing for another launch; it’s even better if fans consider your decked-out booth a must-see.
Nintendo was tight-lipped about its two most exciting announcements ahead of the show. Now we know Gamefreak is working on a “core” Pokémon RPG for the console. Nintendo also announced a new Metroid game — Metroid 4 — the first game in the Prime series in a decade. And it showed a remake of Metroid 2 for 3DS.
The first two games appear to be early in development, and Nintendo gave no clues as to when either would be released.
Nintendo will finish out the second half of 2017 with the launch of Arms, Splatoon 2, Pokken Tournament, and Super Mario Odyssey. Today, we learned that we’ll also get Metroid: Samus Returns on 3DS in September, while Xenoblade Chronicles 2 and Rocket League launch this holiday. DLC for The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild will launch at the end of this month.
In 2018, fans can expect new Kirby and Yoshi games for the Switch. That leaves a lot of question marks for the future of the console after the holiday season. Though we expect Nintendo to reveal more in the coming months.
Pre-E3, it was believable that Nintendo would boost the Switch’s lineup with a new — or at least ported — version of Smash Bros. But, no such luck. Nintendo is trying to push into the competitive gaming scenes with Splatoon and Arms. No Smash Bros. on Switch feels like a missed opportunity.
And, while we’re on the subject of MIA games: where is the new Animal Crossing?
Nintendo has had little to say about its third-party support. Sure, we’ve got the Rabbids gaming coming and some Zelda-themed gear in Skyrim when the game launches for Switch, but the company has yet to reveal a killer exclusive beyond its own properties.



Like most days that end in tragedy, I woke up filled with anticipation. The weather forecast was excellent: 80 degrees, sunny, and very little wind — a rarity for the unpredictable Dutch coast, especially for a Sunday. Perfect conditions for my friend, a gregarious Frenchman, to bring his new Mavic Pro drone to the beach.
The first gin and tonic was served at noon.
My friend, let's call him Clouseau, had flown his drone just a few times prior because it's illegal to fly drones in the city center of Amsterdam where he lives. This would be his second visit to the unrestricted airspace of the coastline.
I had mixed emotions about him bringing the drone to the beach where I own what amounts to a glorified shipping container stuffed with mattresses and a fridge. Clouseau was a nuisance to my neighbors on his first visit. Often he'd leave the drone and its 4K video camera noisily hovering over the heads of scantily clad adults and sand-baked children. He’d do this for minutes at a time as he acquainted himself with the controller. Clouseau had absolute trust in the drone's ability to stay safely aloft while he learned to pilot the craft, literally, on the fly.
If you've ever flown a modern-day drone then it's easy to understand his confidence. The jump in intelligence from those Christmas-morning quadcopters to what DJI now produces is staggering in its progress. The way the diminutive Mavic Pro hovers in the air, glued to a spot in three dimensions as if tethered by invisible guylines is stupefying to a novice. The Mavic Pro’s impressively long list of autonomous skills are enough to give anyone an infallible sense of security.
The day went by without incident. Clouseau heeded my request to fly high and far, and as a result, my neighbors this time greeted us with curiosity instead of annoyance. By sunset we were alone: me, Clouseau, his Mavic Pro, and a dozen or so empty soldiers of tonic.
Ten minutes later the $999 drone would die in the sea, still three miles from shore.
Clouseau knew that the Mavic Pro's maximum range was seven kilometers. But he had become so dazzled by the Mavic Pro's ability to avoid all matters of trouble that he decided to explore the wind farm, barely visible on the horizon. And despite my pleading, and numerous warnings from the controller itself, he sent the drone past the point of no return — convinced that it would override his control and return automatically if there was any real risk. It was too late by the time he turned around.
Heading back fast yet still five kilometers from shore, Clouseau received a final warning that the battery was critically low and that the drone would make an emergency landing.
Beep.
Beep.
Beep.
The Mavic Pro had flatlined, yet the controller continued to send out a signal to come home. We listened to that goddamn bleeping for a nauseating 10 minutes while Clouseau hoped against hope that his expensive drone would somehow return. It never did, lost to the unforgiving North Sea forever.
It was then that I understood those stories of people driving off cliffs while blithely following the instructions of their GPS navigators. I'm also reminded of Arthur C. Clarke's adage that any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.
I watched an intelligent man do something incredibly moronic after becoming awestruck by an advanced technology. He was drunk; impaired by the gin but intoxicated by a magic he didn't understand, yet trusted beyond reason.
It’s a fatal elixir of blind faith in technology that will only become more potent, I fear, with the advances still to come.
Microsoft is preparing to launch a big overhaul of its Xbox Live Avatars system. Originally released as an Xbox 360 feature in 2008, Xbox Live Avatars have been slowly tweaked to include more props and customizability ever since. Microsoft is now introducing a new avatar system that’s designed to make these Xbox avatars a lot more customizable, with a huge focus on diversity.
The new avatars will let you fully customize your online character with new body type options, clothing, and props. During the Xbox daily briefing at E3 yesterday, Microsoft demonstrated the new avatar system with a trailer (above) and some behind-the-scenes footage of how the company is building the new Xbox Live Avatars. Microsoft’s trailer shows an amputee, playful costumes, wheelchairs, skateboards, and even motorbikes to demonstrate the wide array of props and customization. There’s even a new pregnancy option, and the ability to control the colors of an avatar with a picker system.

“We built these from the ground-up, they’re being built in Unity which is a whole new engine,” explains Bryan Saftler, a lead product manager at Xbox. “Avatars are meant for whatever you want your digital self to represent. We don’t want to put you in a box, there are no more checkboxes, no matter what you think you look like or what you want to present online.”
Microsoft’s focus on diversity also means that if you want to wear a dress on your avatar you can thanks to gender-neutral clothing and props. “If you can see it in the store you can wear it, we’re not holding you to any type of checkboxes,” says Kathryn Storm, interaction designer at Xbox.
It looks like Microsoft has done a really good job with these new avatars. The software maker is now planning to release what it calls its “Avatar 2.0” system to Windows 10 users first later this year, with the Xbox family of devices to follow.
AI isn’t going to be a threat to humanity because it’s evil or cruel, AI will be a threat to humanity because we haven’t properly explained what it is we want it to do. Consider the classic “paperclip maximizer” thought experiment, in which an all-powerful AI is told, simply, “make paperclips.” The AI, not constrained by any human morality or reason, does so, eventually transforming all resources on Earth into paperclips, and wiping out our species in the process. As with any relationship, when talking to our computers, communication is key.
That’s why a new piece of research published yesterday by Google’s DeepMind and the Elon Musk-funded OpenAI institute is so interesting. It offers a simple way for humans to give feedback to AI systems — crucially, without the instructor needing to know anything about programming or artificial intelligence.
The method is a variation of what’s known as “reinforcement learning” or RL. With RL systems, a computer learns by trial-and-error, repeating the same task over and over, while programmers direct its actions by setting certain reward criteria. For example, if you want a computer to learn how to play Atari games (something DeepMind has done in the past) you might make the game’s point system the reward criteria. Over time, the algorithm will learn to play in a way that best accrues points, often leading to super-human performance.
What DeepMind and OpenAI’s researchers have done is replace this predefined reward criteria with a much simpler feedback system. Humans are shown an AI performing two versions of the same task and simply tell it which is better. This happens again and again, and eventually the systems learns what is expected of it. Think of it like getting an eye test, when you’re looking through different lenses, and being asked over and over: better... or worse? Here’s what that looks like when teaching a computer to play the classic Atari game Q*bert:
This method of feedback is surprisingly effective, and researchers were able to use it to train an AI to play a number of Atari video games, as well perform simulated robot tasks (like picking telling an arm to pick up a ball). This better / worse reward function could even be used to program trickier behavior, like teaching a very basic virtual robot how to backflip. That’s how we get to the GIF at the top of the page. The behavior you see has been created by watching the “Hopper” bot jump up and down, and telling it “well done” when it gets a bit closer to doing a backflip. Over time, it learns how.
Of course, no one is suggesting this method is a cure-all for teaching AI. There are a number of big downsides and limitations in using this sort of feedback. The first being that although it doesn’t take much skill on behalf of the human operator, it does take time. For example, in teaching the “Hopper” bot to backflip, a human was asked to judge its behavior some 900 times — a process that took about an hour. The bot itself had to work through 70 hours of simulated training time, which was sped up artificially.
For some simple tasks, says Oxford Robotics researcher Markus Wulfmeier (who was not involved in this research), it would be quicker for a programmer to simply define what it is they wanted. But, says Wulfmeier, it’s “increasingly important to render human supervision more effective” for AI systems, and this paper “represents a small step in the right direction.”
DeepMind and OpenAI say pretty much the same — it’s a small step, but a promising one, and in the future, they’re looking to apply it to more and more complex scenarios. Speaking to The Verge over email, DeepMind researcher Jan Leike said: “The setup described in [our paper] already scales from robotic simulations to more complex Atari games, which suggests that the system will scale further.” Leike suggests the next step is to test it in more varied 3D environments. You can read the full paper describing the work here.
The Uber board member who made a sexist remark during today’s meeting about the prevalence of sexism within the company has resigned from his position. David Bonderman’s resignation from Uber’s board was first announced by The New York Times, and confirmed in a statement by Bonderman himself, in which he said his comment was “careless, inappropriate, and inexcusable.”
Bonderman was recorded making the remark in reply to to fellow board member Arianna Huffington, who was speaking about the need for more female representation on Uber’s board. When “there’s one woman on the board, it’s much more likely that there will be a second woman on the board,” Huffington said, to which Bonderman shot back “what it shows is that it’s much more likely to be more talking.”
bonderman statement pic.twitter.com/JnP935pq3T
Bonderman — who helped found TPG, a private equity firm — said that the comment “came across in a way that was the opposite of what I intended,” but that he understood “the destructive effect it had,” and that he took full responsibility for it.
Uber is currently considering the findings of the so-called Holder Report: an internal investigation into claims of sexual harassment and a toxic sexist attitude within the company. Bonderman noted the report in his statement, saying that he had been working with the company for six months on the report, and recognized “the importance of implementing [its] requirements” for the future of the company.
His resignation will come into effect from tomorrow morning, and comes as Uber continues to hemorrhage executives and major figures. Earlier in the day, CEO Travis Kalanick confirmed that he was also taking a leave of absence from the company.
Smart speakers are the hottest new category in gadgets, and if Qualcomm has its way, there’s going to be a ton more of them starting next year.
Qualcomm is about to make it really easy for hardware companies to start building their own speakers. It’s introducing a reference design — basically, a preset configuration of chips, microphone tech, and audio systems — that companies can buy to base their products off of.
This isn’t something you’ll see a company like Amazon use. But smaller companies that want to create their own take on an Echo will be able to pick it up to quickly turn around a new product. It saves a bunch of time on testing, since Qualcomm guarantees everything will work together, which lets products get to market faster.
Qualcomm’s Smart Audio Platform includes most of the core tech needed in a smart speaker (aside from the actual speaker). It has far-field microphone systems, with support for beamforming, echo cancellation, and wake words. It has Wi-Fi and Bluetooth (including aptX HD for hi-res audio streaming), as well as support for Qualcomm’s AllPlay speaker speaker syncing system. And it’s generally designed to support the integration of voice assistants, like Alexa.
AllPlay isn’t a widely used system, which somewhat tempers the excitement here. Qualcomm advertises its new platform as being able to support synchronized playback between speakers, setting up zones, and even handling multi-channel surround sound, but that all relies on someone owning a bunch of AllPlay speakers. That might be more likely if a bunch of speakers roll out in the coming years with Qualcomm inside. But until then, these are mostly just going to be standard Bluetooth speakers.
Qualcomm says the first products based on its system should arrive by the end of the year, but it expects the pace to pick up in 2018.
Dave McCarthy is the Head of Xbox Operations and General Manager of Xbox Services, meaning he’s been deeply involved in the lead up to the reveal of Xbox One X. We had a chance to sit down with McCarthy at Microsoft’s E3 event space in downtown Los Angeles and talk about a range of topics, from how the company plans to explain native 4K to potential customers, how Minecraft has influenced Sea of Thieves, and why the company’s press event had fewer big budget first-party games and timed downloadable content (DLC) exclusives.
Let’s start with the DLC.
We saw “Console Launch Exclusive” through the Xbox E3 presentation, but we didn't see what had become really common in the last five years: timed downloadable content exclusives. Is Microsoft is still pursuing these partnerships with third-party developer or did any of those games show have DLC partnerships?
So the launch exclusive terminology that we use basically means, in simple terms, it's either going to appear first on Xbox or only on Xbox. And we can provide the breakdown of that afterwards, if you want to see that title breakdown. All of the AAA blockbusters are going to be across the Xbox One family of devices. They're going to play great on One, they're going to play spectacularly on Xbox One S. And they'll play even better on Xbox One X overall.
To clarify, it sounds like you're saying you're not focusing on third-party exclusives with DLC and that it's more about the best place a game’s going to run is on the Xbox One X?
We firmly believe that the best place to play these titles, all these titles, would be on the Xbox One X.
And no third-party exclusives for DLC?
The only exclusives were the ones we shared onstage yesterday.
You just got the first taste yesterday of what we're doing with original Xbox compatibility. We'll have a lot more titles obviously to announce. I was saying to somebody, the audaciousness of supporting three generations across the Xbox One family of devices. The first couple of times that Phil [Spencer] brought it up in the leadership team, you got kind of the nervous chuckles around the table, like oh, he's probably not serious when he says, hey, wouldn't it be cool if. He stuck with it, and when he sticks with everything in the leadership team discussion, they're like okay, I guess we're going to make this happen. So it was really cool to see us release the news on Crimson Skies yesterday as the first one, but there will be more to come! It's the same team that actually worked on the Xbox 360 backward compatibility overall. So these are our best and brightest compatibility minds looking at things. So watch this space!
Seeing is believing, obviously, with a lot of this stuff, right? You see the difference with the weather effects and the heat coming off the car and the details [in Forza 7]. You know, if Anthem looked great from Bioware on the amazing 4K screen in The Galen Center yesterday. So a little bit of it is seeing is believing. But I get back to more of this: you're going to notice a difference on your existing games, you're going to notice a difference where developers in both first-party and third-party do these free 4K upgrades that we noticed yesterday, across a large number of titles overall. And then when somebody's taking advantage of the frame buffer and you know, Dolby Atmos, and the wide color gamut, and all of the bells and whistles, it's going to be hard not to notice the difference.
Are you concerned that, right now, a lot of people don’t have 4K TVs? Even if they do, things don't probably stream in 4K from their cable box. Maybe they aren't even watching 4K on YouTube because of their wireless connection. What steps are you taking to put people in these environments where they're going to see what you’re describing?
Sure, right. There will be obviously some retail partnerships that we look at. Demo experiences that we'll do. I wouldn't say from a 1080p TV perspective you're going to be all that disappointed either, right? I mean you have automatic super sampling from the Xbox One X to your 1080p TV. It's still going to look pretty damn amazing. In fact, at home, I've been running this setup. We've had the kits for a couple of months now, and it's remarkable how I literally took the Xbox One X home, I put it on top of my Xbox One S. I pulled the HDMI cable out of the S, pulled it into the S. I literally re-synced my controller, using the one button touch. I had all my games on my external hard drive, plugged it in [to the X]. There was no install time. It was all running.
And I was sitting with my son and I didn't even tell him what the box was. He turns to me within five minutes and he's like, "Dad, what's happening with this box? Why is it running faster? Why does my game look different and better overall? And I said, "Well, I can't tell you right now, son. But--"

Can you explain how a game made by a third-party developer that doesn’t have Xbox One X will be improved? What type of differences specifically can we expect to see on the Xbox One X?
So you'll definitely see faster load times, because you've got a faster hard drive than Xbox One S.  Most titles are doing some notion of dynamic frame rate and their titles and if they will, you will see, unless they're locking at a certain number, because certain developers make the choice to do that, you're going to see a smoother frame rate. You're going to see better texture filtering, with them doing nothing overall, and then you're going to see most of them make use of dynamic resolution in their design right now. So you should see the highest possible resolution of textures in the game as well, without them touching a thing. All of those things will be true without them touching a thing.
So on older games, if the frame rate isn't capped, we’ll see frame rate improvements?
Yeah and consistency, for sure. Yeah, exactly.

Is Microsoft working on mobile game projects anymore, or is that on the back burner? Will we see Play Anywhere games on smartphones?
I mean in addition to Minecraft, some people kind of laugh at this, but Solitaire is one of our huge Live drivers on Windows 10 right now. I think it's moving into other interesting areas as well. You know, Mixer had a huge presence in the show yesterday, right? We talk about this split between the hour spent watching and playing games overall. The mobile client for Mixer's huge for us overall, in terms of consumption. Again, Live links that altogether overall. So I think you'll see more of us doing stuff across devices with Live at the center of all that we do and Mixer is the next big push as part of that.

Dave McCarthy: Franchises like Halo and Gears of War are still hugely important in our ecosystem. We made a really conscious decision with [the E3 event] and we were linked in arms throughout the leadership team on this: that we wanted to show every type of game for every type of gamer. And that was different from what we've done before, but it was a really conscious decision about where gamers are right now in the landscape. There are some that value 4K showcases. For some, community games really speak to them. [Showing] PlayerUnkown’s Battlegrounds was a big deal, right. I think console users — there's a lot of them out there that don't understand how big Battlegrounds is going to be. And it is, it is a huge deal, it's such an innovative format that really sucks you in when you try it.
We needed to create space in our briefing for that. We needed to create space for games around the world. We consciously chose to go around the globe a bit. And we wanted to showcase indie developers with titles like Cuphead and Artful Escape.
It's just a really conscious decision for us to go across the board and show the variation in the gaming landscape right now, which I think Xbox is well-positioned for because we do have the strong service for devices — because we do have Windows 10 in the same company — and we work closely with the team to make stuff happen there.
So it's a matter of consciously saying, hey there's a story we want to tell, that we're offering a ton of choice, regardless of what kind of gameplay type that you gravitate to.

The Verge: A couple of years ago, a number of Xbox employees spoke with me about Minecraft as a template the company could learn from, and build upon. Moving forward to the present, are there any examples of Microsoft is building off the Minecraft template with a new project?
Dave McCarthy: I would say some of the learning from Minecraft has even made its way into Sea of Thieves. So when we take a premiere studio like Rare “offline” for the past couple of years, there's been a lot of good learning from the team back and forth, especially around things involving the community in design. So what I really like about what the Rare team has done, they've really embraced this using our insider program to bring the community onboard. They're regularly giving feedback across both PC and our Xbox One panel of devices on how to design the game, what those sort of multi-screen considerations are. They're both going to be doing some interesting and innovative things with Mixer, both from an interactivity standpoint and things like co-streaming that have come out out there. So I do see it filtering into some of the studios, I think we'll see more around the idea of in-game marketplaces, I think Minecraft is really leading the way there overall. So it really has been a good education piece for us, but I think it's really interesting to see how it affects new IP development and I've seen some really neat interactions between the teams there.

E3 2017 has officially kicked off, and thousands of journalists, gaming industry people, and, for the first time ever, members of the public have flooded the Los Angeles Convention Center for the largest gaming show in the world. And virtually everyone seemed to be packing Nintendo’s massive E3 booth for a chance to get their hands on Super Mario Odyssey, the upcoming Mario adventure for the Nintendo Switch.
So it’s fitting that the booth is decked out as New Donk City — one of the levels in Odyssey — from top to bottom. Times Square-esque billboards line the walls, Donkey Kong-themed street signs pop out over the crowd, and crosswalk indicators are actually with Mario “?” blocks. On one side, you can find a Crazy Cap store (as seen in the trailer) handing out Cappy visors, while New Donk City flags proudly fly on the opposite walls. But until Nintendo decides to come up with some sort of virtual reality solution, the booth is probably the closest you’ll ever get to being in New Donk City. Aside from visiting the real New York City it’s based off, anyway.
At the front of the booth is a massive, life-sized re-creation of Mario, Cappy, and the new airship he’ll be piloting in Super Mario Odyssey, while scattered around the booth are statues of the various enemies that Mario will be able to transform into through the new “Capture” mechanic in Odyssey, also all built to proper scale. (On a related note, Goombas are much larger in real life than you’d necessarily think.)
Nintendo is also taking advantage of the Switch’s portable nature with the booth, with demo stations scattered everywhere, from rows of flat screens to smaller tables. There are even some park benches, where you can try out Super Mario Odyssey while being guided by a besuited denizen of New Donk City, just like in the game. (Although unlike in the game, it does not seem that the demo staff will have have to worry about being possessed by a magic hat.) Lines stretched out in all directions for a chance for the 10-minute demo, and the booth was completely packed from wall to wall with fans eagerly waiting their turn.
Of course, Nintendo has a few other games at E3 that aren’t Super Mario Odyssey. There were demo stations set up for Splatoon 2, ARMS, Fire Emblem Warriors, Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, FIFA 18, Sonic Forces, and Pokkén Tournament DX toward the back of the booth. There was also a full fledged e-sports arena for some of the tournaments Nintendo will be holding over the course of the conference.
There is something inherently insect-like about the New York City commute: swarms of people crammed together into subway cars, piling into elevators, buzzing around the streets. To make the metaphor literal, 20,000 European honeybees joined the commute this morning, blocking the entrance to Vox Media's headquarters in downtown Manhattan.
Passersby stopped to marvel at the scene, phones in hand, snapping pictures. “Oh my gosh!” a woman shrieked. “New York City!” someone else yelled. “Yeah! Save the bees!” shouted a young woman with short, blond hair and colorful tights.
Hovering around the scene was beekeeper Katherine Morris, wearing a white hazmat suit and army green All Stars. She was waiting for another beekeeper to arrive — Andrew Coté, an independent beekeeper who works for Andrew’s Honey and sometimes helps out the city — so that the swarming bees could be scooped up in a bucket and carried to another beehive.
But why were the bees commuting, and why here?
Swarming is common when the temperatures rise, Morris explained. In fact, there have been dozens of swarming incidents already this season in New York City, according to Coté. “This is as natural as a kitten up a tree,” he says.
A bee colony generally hosts about 30,000 to 50,000 bees at one time, but when it gets warm, the queens produce a lot of new bees. This makes the colony huge, Morris says. When the colony is too large, the queen will take a third of it and fly to find another spot, says Morris. Or, if another queen was born in the beehive, she’ll leave with some followers. A beehive, after all, can have only one queen.
The honeybees grappling on the side of the Vox Media building were just waiting. Search parties — hundreds of scouts — had already been sent out to scour the area for a place to build a new hive. The building wasn’t ideal for that; bees like wood.
No one is sure where the bees started their commute, though. There are several beehives in Battery Park, at the southern tip of Manhattan, Morris says, as well as on the rooftops of several downtown buildings. (New York City legalized beekeeping in 2010, and bees are used for making honey or pollinating city gardens.) Today’s swarming bees likely came from one of those hives, but it’s impossible to pin down the exact origin.
Of course, when it comes to bees, there’s the question of the sting, which can be dangerous to people with allergies. These bees, however, were unlikely to sting — likely only if they were poked or prodded. “They don’t want to leave the queen because they’re the workers,” Morris says. “They’re there to protect her.” Besides, they had no hive to protect, a usual source of human-bee conflict.
A little after noon, Coté arrived in a white pickup truck. “Where is it?” he asked Morris as he stepped beyond the yellow tape. He turned, saw the swarm, and smiled. He was wearing a beige “I [bee] NY” jacket, which included a net to protect his face from stings. Then Coté, Morris, and a few other beekeepers got to work.
The first plan was to vacuum up the bees into a bucket, but the vacuum’s power cord didn’t work. So Coté gathered several cardboard boxes and brushed the bees off the wall using a thin, long brush with yellow bristles. As some of the bees were scooped into the box, hundreds of bees pushed off from the wall, forming a big cloud. Over the city noise, it was possible to hear a light buzzing. After the bees calmed down a bit, they were scooped again from the cardboard box into a larger wooden box filled with beehive frames. The whole thing was then placed inside a larger cardboard box of Bella dinner napkins and taped, so that the bees couldn’t get out.
“That’s not closed! Look at it!” Coté shouted as the other beekeepers used duct tape to close up the box. “It’s not closed!” The duct taping continued.
Coté says he isn’t sure where the honeybees will be transported. He will likely add them to existing beehives, especially ones that are struggling because they don’t have enough bees. After over an hour, the vacuum was finally put to work, and about a thousand bees were sucked up.
The box was finally loaded onto Coté’s pickup truck. Dozens of bees were still scattered around the street — without the rest of the colony, they will get lost and die, Coté says. But so it goes.
Once the insects were safely removed, the people on the streets swarmed forth again, buzzing in and out of their offices. The cloud of bees was gone, and so was the crowd of humans.
Additional reporting by Angela Chen
Oh, Uber. You’d think you’d be able to get through your very important meeting today about fixing your problems with pervasive sexism and harassment without someone making a really dumb, misogynistic joke. But alas, it was not to be.
Based on leaked audio from today’s all-hands meeting obtained by Yahoo Finance, Uber board member David Bonderman, founder of TPG Capital, made the crack after a remark by his fellow board member Arianna Huffington regarding the need for more female representation on Uber’s board.
Huffington said that when “there’s one woman on the board, it’s much more likely that there will be a second woman on the board.” Bonderman’s response — “what it shows is that it’s much more likely to be more talking” — would have been inappropriate in any context, let alone in the middle of a high-profile meeting about your company’s harassment and marginalization of female employees.
So... This just happened at @Uber's all-hands meeting. @YahooFinance's @JPManga got some leaked audio. 6:40 min https://t.co/QHXOp7TU0h pic.twitter.com/bqBLonNp49
Reactions to Bonderman’s dumb joke were quick and unapologetic.
Insane. An Uber director's casual jokey misogyny during a presentation explaining how he and the rest of the board are fixing its culture https://t.co/6qhWD8Ukml
Well, this a good way to undercut the whole 'zero tolerance for sexism' policy six minutes into Uber 2.0 https://t.co/6pL3Q2pNDO
Incredible. Within first 10 minutes of Uber all-hands meeting today, a board member makes a sexist joke. https://t.co/iurWrXTOXw pic.twitter.com/ngQW6uS5J3
Soon after the news of Bonderman’s tone-deaf remark, he sent an apology to Uber’s employees via the head of the company’s human resources department. “I want to apologize to my fellow board member for a disrespectful comment that was directed at her during today's discussion,” he said, in a statement provided by his investment firm. “It was inappropriate. I also want to apologize to all Uber employees who were offended by the remark. I deeply regret it.” A short time later, he resigned from the board, saying that he didn’t want to be a “distraction” while the company dealt with the Holder Report.
Update June 13th, 10:00PM ET: David Bonderman has submitted his resignation from Uber’s board after his sexist remark was reported.
Today, Google announced an expansion to its Play Store with its new Android Excellence program. Curated by Google’s editorial team, Android Excellence features rotating collections of apps that deliver a superb Android user experience, utilize many of Google’s “best practices,” and “have great design, technical performance, localization, and device optimization.” Broken down into two categories of apps and games, Android Excellence appears in Google’s newly revamped Editor’s Choice section.
The announcement comes after Apple’s recent WWDC debut of its overhauled App Store, with a new interface and shifted focus on discovery and how-tos. It also has a new way to highlight apps — the App Store’s upgraded landing page will feature one new app a day, opening possibilities for up-and-coming developers and encouraging daily visits.
While Google’s Android Excellence program is more extensive, the lists will only be updated quarterly, a move that might not serve users as much as it does developers (who can reap exposure for months). Also a bummer  — there are no descriptions to explain why editors select apps for Android Excellence, the way they do for other Google Play categories, like “5 Travel Apps for Your Next Adventure.”
Regardless, if you want to see what Google deems the best of the best, Android Excellence kicks off today in the Google Play Store. Below, their first round of selects.
Android Excellence Apps
Android Excellence Games
If all the small enhancements to the iPad Pro 10.5 aren't speaking to you, good deals on the original 9.7-inch Pro have arrived. As spotted by 9to5Toys, Best Buy is offering a one-day-only deal on the 32GB 9.7-inch Pro right now: $449.99, which is $150 off the typical $599.99 asking price.
The main reason to grab a Pro model over the recently released $329 iPad model is Pencil support, but, of course, the Pencil isn't included with the Pro models, it's an extra $99. Also, Apple's Smart Keyboard covers for the 9.7-inch Pro aren't compatible with the 10.5-inch Pro, so that's something else to watch out for. Basically this isn't the greatest deal in tablets, but it is a good tablet that's about to get a lot more interesting with iOS 11. And $450, or $400 if you want to dig around for a refurbished model, is certainly more accessible than the $650 Apple wants for the 10.5-inch new stuff.
For years, experts have warned of vulnerabilities in the network that routes phone calls and cellular service — but those attacks may be more widespread than anyone realized. For more than a year, a Tor Hidden Service has been offering ongoing access to telecom’s private SS7 network for as little as $500 a month. Combined with known vulnerabilities, that access could be used to intercept texts, track the location of an individual phone, or cut off cellular service entirely.
Accessible on Tor at zkkc7e5rwvs4bpxm.onion, the “Interconnector” service offers a variety of services charged as monthly fees, including $250 to intercept calls or texts, $500 for full access, or $150 for cellphone reports (including location data and IMSI numbers). Well-heeled users can even pay $5,500 for direct access to the SS7 port, billed as “everything you need to start your own service.”
One customer wrote to The Verge with complaints about the service, claiming to have paid the site’s fee only to be ignored by the site’s manager, never receiving access to the SS7 dashboard. Others have gone as far as labeling it a scam. The site responded to the concerns earlier today, promising a free page to test the service next week, although access to the site will be heavily limited.
Still, the offering is consistent with what we know about SS7 hacking. Unlike the internet, the SS7 network is a closed network, only meant to be accessed by a handful of telecom companies. As a result, there are few authentication systems in place once a user is on the network. In the past, researchers have raised concerns about SS7 attacks that hacked into telecom company systems remotely, or directly reprogrammed leased equipment like a femtocell.
The site’s manager, who goes by the name Interconnect0r, declined to say how she was able to maintain access, but said it did not present significant technical difficulties, despite regular intervention from phone companies. She also said many others were maintaining access to the SS7 network using similar methods.
“It’s easier than you would think,” she told The Verge. “It’s difficult to wrap your mind around how [easy], unless you've got the right guidance, or stumble upon the right information.”
Most of the vulnerabilities in the SS7 have been known for years, although little has been done to fix them. In 2014, Karsten Nohl first demonstrated how the SS7 system could be used to track a user’s physical location, and subsequent work showed how bad actors on the network could intercept texts and redirect calls. Those attacks could break two-factor authentication, intercepting an SMS or audio call sent through the compromised network.
In 2016, Nohl used the vulnerabilities to track the location of an iPhone belonging to Congressman Ted Lieu as part of a demonstration for CBS’s 60 Minutes. The following March, Rep. Lieu and Senator Ron Wyden sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly raising concerns about the issue, hoping to spur more aggressive fixes from telecom carriers.
“We are deeply concerned that the security of America’s telecommunications infrastructure is not getting the attention it deserves,” the letter reads. “Most americans simply have no idea how easy it is for a relatively sophisticated adversary to track their movements, tap their calls, and hack their smartphones.”
Update 4:12PM ET: Updated with the complaints about the service.
Manfrotto is most well-known for its tripods and other camera accessories, but today it’s further expanding beyond that market with the launch of four new camera-oriented backpacks and messenger bags. All the Bumblebee-line bags are fabricated out of a rain-proof material that reflects sunlight. They also include a stretchable band specifically designed to hold a gimbal, but it can be used to hold a lens, too. The backpacks cost more than the messenger bags and start at $229.99. The cheapest messenger bag costs $129.99.
The most expensive and impressive bag, the Bumblee-230 PL, can hold a DSLR with a 70-200/2.8 lens attached and 10 additional lenses, or an attached 400/2.8 lens with five additional lenses. It can be rearranged to hold a video camera and features a 17-inch laptop compartment as well. The bag is pictured above and certainly looks like it can hold a bunch of stuff. It costs $279.99.
The messenger bags aren’t as large but do have something called a “silent quick-access flap” with a “NoiseFree Velcro silencer.” All of this is to say you can open your bag quietly. The most expensive messenger bag, the Bumblebee M-30, costs $149.99. It can hold a DSLR with a 70-200mm/2.8 lens attached and three additional lenses, a handheld gimbal, and a 15-inch laptop in its own padded compartment. This is what it looks like:
Bags! Who doesn’t love bags, honestly?
The latest cinematic iteration of The Mummy takes off when antiquities thief Nick Morton (Tom Cruise) unearths an ancient Egyptian tomb — in Iraq. Ignoring the portents of impending doom (and the fact that stealing antiquities is illegal and also wrong), Morton and his Army buddies unearth a sarcophagus. Inside lies the mummy Ahmanet, an undead pharaoh’s daughter who was mummified alive and is royally pissed off about it. She comes back to life, psychically imprints on Morton, and wreaks havoc on London.
Unlike werewolves or vampires, mummies are creature-feature mainstays that actually do have real-world counterparts. That’s why archaeologist David Hurst Thomas, co-curator of the Mummies exhibit on display at the American Museum of Natural History, has been getting a lot of movie-inspired questions lately. “It really opens the door to talk about this stuff,” Thomas says.
The number one question he’s getting isn’t about whether a mummy could remain undead and entombed for millennia, or even whether any ancient Egyptian tombs have been found in modern-day Iraq. “The question is — as if authenticity is going to be an issue in a Tom Cruise movie — ‘How realistic is that, to have a female mummy?’” Thomas says. “None of the classic mummy movies are about women.” The truth is, that’s one of the more realistic parts of the movie. More than half the mummies in Thomas’ Mummies exhibit are female. In ancient Egypt, mummification wasn’t limited to men. (Lead roles in Hollywood blockbusters are an entirely different story.)
But were ancient Egyptian princesses ever mummified alive? “I don’t know of any case like that,” Thomas says. Still, he adds, there are a lot of ways to mummify a body — and that body doesn’t always have to be dead when the process starts. “Mummies are known from every continent of the world except Antarctica,” he says. “And they have really very different roles in different belief systems.” So we rounded up a few highlights:
Mummification in ancient Egypt started by accident. The heat and dry climate sucked the moisture out of corpses, making them much less appealing to the microbes that typically drive decay. It’s why beef jerky doesn’t spoil as quickly as a juicy steak.
Around 3000 BCE, the ancient Egyptians became much more intentional about preserving their dead — kicking off the early days of mummification. By 1550 BCE, anyone who could pay for a better body in the afterlife shelled out to become a mummy after they died.
The embalming process went something like this: first, embalmers removed the deceased’s brain with a hooked instrument inserted through the nose. They also removed the internal organs — except the heart — through a small incision in the body’s left side. These were preserved separately and stored in ornate jars. Then, the body was washed with water and probably wine, and packed inside and out with a kind of salt called natron. The salt sucked the water out of the body for about 40 days, leaving the skin shriveled like a raisin. Oils were rubbed on the body to revitalize it before it was covered with a kind of tree sap, wrapped in linen and magical amulets, and buried.
“In Egypt, it’s all about looking good for the afterlife,” Thomas says. “And from the top to the bottom of Egyptian society, that becomes the goal.”
Thousands of years before the ancient Egyptians were wrapping corpses in linen, people in South America were mummifying their dead in an altogether different way. Between 7020 BCE and 1110 BCE, fishing communities collectively known as the Chinchorro people lived and died along the coast from southern Peru to northern Chile.
The Chinchorro people had a couple of different ways to preserve a cadaver — possibly as part of a belief system that used mummification to stay connected with the dead. But the Black Mummies — which get their name from the black manganese paint that covered the cadaver — were the standouts, physical anthropologist Bernardo T. Arriaza wrote.
The person preparing a Black Mummy first had to dismember and decapitate the body, and remove its internal organs. The skin, which was preserved separately, “was peeled away from the body and reattached later, like taking off and putting on a sock,” Mollie Bloudoff-Indelicato wrote for National Geographic. To dry out the torso, the mortician stuffed the abdomen with hot ashes or coals.
Once the abdomen was dry and the bones were clean, the whole body had to be put back together again, as if it were lying down on its back. Cords tied the bones together, and sticks threaded up through the hips and rib cage, before passing into the skull like body-length splints. The hollow insides were stuffed with grass, ashes, dirt, and animal hair. Then the body was coated with ash, and the skin was carefully stretched back over the top. The last step was to paint the body with a black paste made out of the mineral manganese, which also gave shape to the deceased’s facial features.
Another question Thomas gets from museumgoers is: can you mummify yourself? “And the answer is, you sure can!” he says. Monks in especially ascetic sects of buddhism attempted self-mummification for different ideological reasons, but the end goal was to die of starvation and remain preserved for eternity.
There weren’t many who managed it. There are different numbers floating around, but according to researcher Kiyohiko Sakurai writing in a 1998 textbook, only 15 self-mummified bodies still remain in Japan. The earliest dates to the 14th century, and the latest to the turn of the 20th. The reason there are so few is probably in part because Japan’s humid climate was much less conducive to mummification than the dry and salty deserts of Egypt, or the west coast of South America.
The process was also, no surprise, unpleasant, and deadly. “It starts out with this really nasty 1,000-day diet where you’re just basically starving yourself and getting rid all of the fat in your body,” Thomas explains. The trick to self-mummification was to go low-carb. Monks cut rice, barley, corn, millet, and beans from their diet, and substituted pine bark, grass roots, and nuts for three years or more. The starvation diet altered the body’s composition “to one that was strongly resistant to decomposition,” Sakurai wrote.
When he was close to death, the monk would enter an underground tomb to be buried alive. Three years later, other monks would exhume the body and dry it over candle flames. If the mummification was successful, the mummy was re-dressed in monk’s robes, and arranged in a seated position to be worshipped.
As the ancient Egyptians learned, mummies can be made by accident, too. “The whole thing is just to somehow interrupt the natural biological process of decay, which means stopping bacteria,” Thomas says. That can happen in extremely arid, frozen, or soggy places.
Desert mummies span the globe, from caves in Nevada to ancient Egypt to the Taklamakan desert in China. Famous ice mummies include Otzi the iceman, the freeze-dried mummy of a Copper Age man who was murdered in the Alps and frozen in a glacier 5,300 years ago. There’s also the Llullaillaco Maiden, a 13-year-old girl who died of exposure as an Incan child sacrifice on an icy peak in the Andes.
Drying and freezing make some intuitive sense as preservation techniques — after all, it’s how we preserve our food. But it’s also possible to preserve a body in water, like the bog bodies discovered in Northern Europe. The low-oxygen, swampy, acidic environs of certain bogs essentially pickle the bodies — sometimes dissolving the bones, but leaving the skin and hair intact.
“So there are mummy stories all over the world,” Thomas says. Still, “It's the Egyptian ones that really rule the stage.” Here’s hoping that the next Mummy movie casts a bog body for the starring role — and yes, women could become bog bodies, too.
Expectations were high for Sony’s E3 showcase this week. Last year, Sony arguably stole the show with games like Detroit: Become Human, Days Gone, God of War, Spider-Man, Horizon Zero Dawn, a new Call of Duty, The Last Guardian, and a VR thing for Final Fantasy XV, to name a few.
So what did Sony show as the future of PlayStation this year? Detroit: Become Human, Days Gone, God of War, Spider-Man, a new Call of Duty (this time in World War II), a remaster of The Last Guardian predecessor Shadow of the Colossus, and another VR thing for Final Fantasy XV.
Yeah.
That isn’t to say Sony had a bad event — far from it, in fact. E3 is designed to generate excitement not just for this year, but for the years to come. Sony wants to sell the idea that you’re investing in a platform for the long term. That big projects should appear one, two, or even three years in a row, isn’t unprecedented. But with so many repeats this year — and so few surprises — it’s hard not to see this year as a rare miss for a company that’s been pretty dominant at the show for some time.
Sony is far from the only company with repeat performances. Every major company with an E3 event has a game or two that never seems to graduate. The Xbox exclusive Crackdown 3, for example, was first shown off in 2014. As for Ubisoft’s Beyond Good & Evil 2, hell, that project was first announced in 2008. It’s nine years old and still has no release date.
And all those games that Sony repeated have seen major improvements from last year. Detroit’s gameplay was demoed last year, and this year Sony unveiled more of its main storyline. Father-and-son parable God of War, meanwhile, showed more of the frenetic combat and some massive-scale monsters. Spider-Man, the capstone of the night, now looks playable.
Related
To be fair, there were plenty of games that weren’t reruns. Sony announced a number of VR titles in quick succession, including Skyrim VR, a virtual reality port of a game that is legally required to be mentioned at least three times every E3. There was also a new Uncharted chapter and some Destiny 2 teasers.
But even those games, exciting though they may be, are familiar in their own right — sequels and remakes. They looked good, sure, but the big piece that Sony lacked — and one of the big reasons people have loved their past E3 showcases — was surprise. There were no new IP, big or small. Indie games had little to no presence onstage this year — a stark contrast from years past. Monster Hunter World, a new entry in the massively successful Japanese franchise, stands out as an impressive showing, but it’s also a game coming to Xbox One or PC.
The biggest surprise, in fact, might’ve been what Sony didn’t show. Standouts like Hideo Kojima’s I-don’t-even-know-how-to-describe-this Death Stranding (first seen last year) and The Last of Us Part II (unveiled at PlayStation Experience last December) were completely MIA. And after Microsoft spent over an hour trying to convince the world we’re ready for a 4K Xbox, Sony said nary a word about the PlayStation 4 Pro, its own 4K console that’ll be (at least) $100 cheaper by the time Xbox One X comes out. A big question has been how developers will use the hardware to enhance the visuals of its games, and after this week, we still don’t have a good answer.
Then again, it’s not as if Sony needs to “win” every E3. In this generation of gaming, the PlayStation 4 is clearly ahead of the competition, with Xbox One still playing catch-up in sales and Nintendo doing its own thing entirely with the Switch. And with events like December’s PlayStation Experience, the company has been creating other stages to showcase its offerings. But E3 is still the big one. Sony can afford a risk-averse year to refine, to say, “We wowed you last year with a lot of surprises, now give us a moment to clean these up a bit.” But that’s a rarity.
There’s been a lot of hype around the solar eclipse on August 21st. Thousands are traveling to the locations, like Tennessee or Wyoming, to see the Sun go completely dark for the first time since 1918. For those of us staying put, there’s the Eclipse Megamovie Simulator, which will let you see how the eclipse will appear in your area.
Enter your zip code and see an animation of what you can expect, as well as the best time to take a loop. It’s part of the larger Eclipse Megamovie Project, which will collect thousands of photos of the natural phenomenon from volunteers.
If the simulator isn’t enough, there is also the Solar Eclipse Timer, an app that talks you through the location of the eclipse as it happens so you know exactly where the Sun is during the event. With the simulator and the app, you have a pretty good shot of making the most of wherever you are when the eclipse happens. This is much better than paying for a cheesy cruise that lets you view an eclipse you can see from land.
Far Cry 5’s announcement rode in on a wave of controversy. Where past games took players to far-off lands where the player murdered the locals, Far Cry 5 is set in a small Montana county. The enemy is a group of largely white Americans. Its heroes are a ragtag group of resistance fighters, fighting against a cult — a group whose imagery is drenched in patriotic Americana and Christian symbols.
But its first demo, for all of the conversations around the change to the game, felt largely like the Far Cry games that preceded it — its Montana location serving less as a statement than as a playground.
A great deal of buzz around the game has been given to its politics, though Far Cry 5’s development reaches back much further than the election of President Donald Trump and the rise of the alt-right.
"I get that question a fair amount,” Far Cry 5 executive producer and creative director Dan Hay tells The Verge. “Our intention was not to make a specific political statement. Our intention was to build an environment and build a situation that felt real.”
Hay describes the game’s design and the political climate as a “chicken and egg” situation.
“It has been eerie, is the word I would use,” Hay says. “Usually when you're making a game, you take a break, you walk outside, you go have lunch, and the conversations that take place at lunch that you're listening to are vastly different from the conversations that are happening in the game. That is not the case in this game. And it's been strange.”
At E3, Far Cry 5 is present in the form of a short demo mainly showcasing the game’s different AI-controlled partners. Grace Armstrong is a sniper; Nick Rye is a pilot with access to a very tough to fly plane; Boomer is a dog. All three have different capabilities, with a character like Grace providing backup from afar, while Boomer is there to rip through nearby enemies and fetch a gun. My experience with the game provided little insight about the cult the group is fighting against, aside from some bloody run-ins. And I never got the chance to meet the Father, the cult’s leader.
Hay describes the Father as a man who believes the means — in other words, murder and mayhem — justify the end. In building the game’s antagonistic cult, Hay says it’s easy to look at them from a scholastic standpoint. Or, even an anecdotal one.
“When people think about cults, they have an idea in their mind,” he says. Ubisoft worked with a team of “cult experts”on the game, though Hay declines to say what kind of research they did. "I'll be super specific about making sure that folks understand that we did a bunch of research with cult experts, and that's why we built our own cult,” he says. “We wanted to make sure that people understood we weren't specifically targeting a group. We wanted it to be ours.”
But Far Cry 5 needed a magnetic villain — a leader who could convince you that they have answers you don’t. “What I want to know is that I'm sitting down with somebody who's intelligent enough, who's magnetic enough, that even though I have the preconceived notion that I would never be turned or never think of myself as joining a cult,” Hay says. “That this person after a while could talk to me and I would begin to believe that perhaps under the right circumstances they could win me over.”
At the very least, Far Cry 5 still feels very much in-line with its past. In 20 minutes, I’d managed to tangle with wolves and locals (with deadly results); joyride through the country (with deadly results); and man a plane long enough to bomb a stretch of farmland (much to my dismay, with no deadly results).
For those that want to sidestep the messy conversation about what the game may or may not say, Far Cry 5’s E3 demonstration was happy to oblige.




Uber CEO Travis Kalanick will take a leave of absence from the ride-hail company to grieve for his mother who just died in a boating accident, according to a company-wide email that just went out. Kalanick’s decision comes as the investigation in a pervasive culture of sexism and harassment at Uber has reached its conclusion.
“For the last eight years my life has always been about Uber,” Kalanick wrote. “Recent events have brought home for me that people are more important than work, and that I need to take some time off of the day-to-day to grieve my mother, whom I buried on Friday, to reflect, to work on myself, and to focus on building out a world-class leadership team.”
Kalanick wouldn’t say how long he intended to step away from Uber — “it may be shorter or longer than we might expect,” he wrote — but that the move was necessary for the company to effectively improve its battered image. “For Uber 2.0 to succeed there is nothing more important than dedicating my time to building out the leadership team,” Kalanick said. “But if we are going to work on Uber 2.0, I also need to work on Travis 2.0 to become the leader that this company needs and that you deserve.”
Kalanick had been weighing a leave of absence in the week since Uber’s board received the report from the law firm Covington & Burling into its toxic workplace. The investigation was prompted by Susan Fowler, an ex-Uber engineer, whose disturbing account of pervasive sexism, harassment, and managerial incompetency at the ride-hail company came to light last February. After Fowler’s story went viral, Kalanick said the company would “conduct an urgent investigation” into the allegations, and promised to fire anyone who “behaves this way or thinks this is OK.”
Since then, it’s been scandal after scandal at Uber, from high-level executives running for the exit to revelations about legally questionable practices. Every time Uber’s employees thought they were climbing out of the hole they were in, a new controversy would surface and the hole would get deeper. Just last week, it was revealed that two of the company’s top executives, Kalanick and senior vice president of business Emil Michael, had obtained the medical records of a woman in India who was raped by an Uber driver. After the news broke, Michael was fired from the company, while Kalanick weighing stepping away from the company he helped found eight years ago.
The probe was led by former US Attorney General Eric Holder and his colleague Tammy Albarrán. During the course of the investigation, Holder and Albarrán reported on a weekly basis to a subcommittee of Uber’s board of directors, consisting of Arianna Huffington, Bill Gurley, and David Bonderman.
At the time, the news drew criticism because of Holder’s ties to the company. Uber retained Covington & Burling for advice on safety issues. Holder even advocated for Uber last summer by sending letters to officials to drop policies mandating fingerprint-based background checks for drivers. Holder’s former chief of staff and Covington employee, Margaret Richardson, also sits on Uber’s safety advisory board. Early Uber investors Mitch and Freada Kapor Klein called the move “disappointing.”
Uber also retained the law firm Perkins Coie to specifically look into Fowler’s allegations. As a result of that firm’s investigation, 20 employees were fired and 215 claims of harassment, bullying, retaliation and other inappropriate behavior were investigated. Of those claims, 100 were dismissed with no action taken, while 31 employees were referred to training or counseling sessions, and seven were handed written warnings. Fifty-seven cases are still being investigated.
In its review, Covington says it conducted “200 interviews with current and former employees who shared a broad range of perspectives,” including employees with direct knowledge of Fowler’s allegations.
Covington Recommendations by ahawkins8223 on Scribd
So what does Holder and Albarrán recommend Uber do to fix what’s broken? The report lands on 10 major recommendations, including “changes to senior leadership,” “enhance board oversight,” and “reforumulate Uber’s 14 cultural values.”
You’ll recall that Uber’s cultural values, created by Kalanick and chief product officer Jeff Holden, include such memorable turns-of-phrase as “Let Builders Build,” “Always Be Hustlin’,” “Meritocracy and Toe-Stepping,” and “Principled Confrontation.” The firm recommends that any value that has been used to “justify poor behavior” should be eliminated. At Uber’s all-hands meeting today, Huffington went further on the values, asserting that some of them have been “weaponized,” according to New York Times scribe Mike Isaac.
"A lot of people have told us that the 14 cultural value have been "weaponized" -- not all of them but a few of them." --Huffington
The firm also recommends that Uber create a “diversity advisory board” to ensure the company’s efforts to promote diversity through its hiring process is properly implemented. Uber should regularly publish its diversity numbers too, Covington suggests. The company published its diversity numbers for the first time back in March, showing that Uber was overwhelming white and male.
Covington recommends Uber update its discrimination and harassment policies to make them easier to understand, and to ensure that no reported instance of inappropriate behavior goes unreported. The company should also develop specific guidance on appropriate workplace relationships, including the types of relationships that are explicitly banned such as “individuals in a reporting relationship.” (Recode recently got a hold of a letter from Kalanick outlining Uber’s rules for sexual relationships, which came off as very trashy and tone-deaf.)
With Kalanick stepping aside, and many of the company’s top executives fired or resigned, the question remains: what comes next for Uber? Many of the company’s critics will no doubt be disappointed that Kalanick’s departure won’t be permanent. The argument is that with Kalanick’s leave only temporary, any attempt to start with a clean slate would be meaningless. But Uber’s defenders still see this as an opportunity for the company to hit the reset button.
Bradley Tusk, an outside advisor to the company, told The Verge that he came away with three main takeaways. The first was that Uber should report on a quarterly basis on the status of the implementation of each of the report’s recommendations. This would demonstrate that Uber cares about accountability and transparency. “They won’t want to do it because it’ll be a pain,” but the company should still consider making these quarterly reports, he said.
Second, Tusk said that when Kalanick returns to the company, his focus should be “innovation, growth, and scale,” and he should leave the drudgery of running a massive bureaucracy to his lieutenants. “He’s not a guy who gets excited about reading the minutes from the last board meeting or performance evaluations,” Tusk said, adding that since Kalanick wants to change the future, Uber needs to let him be “the future-changer.”
And lastly, Tusk noted that any tech startup that wants to avoid the many scandals that have befallen Uber over the last few months would be advised to read the Holder report and take it to heart. “You can upend the status quo while still being respectful and accountable to your employees,” he said. “It would behoove startups to think about how this applies to them.”




Freelance writer and academic Anthony Oliveira, known by the Twitter handle @meakoopa, has been suspended from Twitter, prompting a backlash from followers who contrast the decision with what they see as Twitter’s continued failure to combat the rise of the violent alt-right and the prevalence of anti-LGTBQ hate speech on its platform.
The suspension appears to have occurred no more than a few hours ago, and was brought to wider attention by the popular account @skullmandible. His first tweet about the suspension has more than 200 retweets as of this writing, and a hashtag, #freemeakoopa, shows the issue bubbling up throughout Twitter’s LGBTQ and literary communities.
important queer voice and academic anthony olivera banned by twitter the morning after pride weekend. are you serious @twitter #freemeakoopa pic.twitter.com/bZ48evHNeZ
Update: Oliveira told The Verge in an email, “I have no idea what the ban is for... Twitter has provided no explanation whatsoever; I awoke to the account locked. No emails or DMs have been sent. I can see people replying to my @, however, and am very appreciative of their remarks.”
One of Oliveira’s supporters, who did not wish to be quoted by name, explained the situation that followers believe led to the @meakoopa suspension. They posit a theory that Oliveira was suspended for doxxing someone who was trolling him.
The supporter recalls a college student tweeting a photo of himself and his girlfriend with the hashtag #PrideMonth and a caption along the lines of “celebrating my heterosexuality.” That tweet was followed with taunts about how straight people don’t feel the need to “flaunt” their sexuality. Oliveira reportedly responded by quote-tweeting this post with “Many congratulations to you and your sister.” That led to an argument with the original poster, with Oliveira eventually using the real names of the poster and his girlfriend. The poster, according to the anonymous @meakoopa follower, deleted the original tweet and locked his account.
Hey, unsuspend @meakoopa's account. It's a travesty that homophobes constantly abuse us and tell us to kill ourselves. and nothing happens
Silicon Valley ghouls like @jack aren't your friends and are silencing queer voices on Twitter while letting white supremacists roam free pic.twitter.com/iA6I2cWUsL
hey @twitter bring back @meakoopa immediately. you let nazis run roughshod over your site but you ban a queer academic? are you KIDDING ME
A second follower of @meakoopa told The Verge via Twitter DM that the original poster had included an Instagram link in his Twitter profile, which contained his real name: “The rumor with [@]meakoopa is that he used the real names of a straight couple he was making jokes about… And because it's technically against [Twitter’s terms of service] and [@]meakoopa has plenty of enemies on the right / alt-right, they could mass report and get him suspended.” Others have tweeted the same theory, but it’s important to emphasize that Twitter has not confirmed this as the inciting incident for the suspension.
Technically, this would be the same type of behavior that resulted in some of Twitter’s most public prior suspensions — a user with a large following identifying another user by name can be seen as encouraging harassment and abuse. Supporters have argued the intent is different, and that Oliveira is a vital voice on the platform.
Hey @Support and @jack thousands of LGBT look to @meakoopa as a leader & voice for the marginalized; what you did is horrifically tone deaf.
According to Siddhant Adlakha, a critic at the film site Birth. Movies. Death, which recently published an essay on The Babadook Pride Month meme written by Oliveira, Twitter hasn’t provided Oliveira with any information about why he was suspended. (Oliveira confirmed when reached for comment.)
@TwitterOpen, an official Twitter account dedicated to the platform’s LGBTQ community, tweeted “Looking into it!” in response to one of the complaints.
This is outrageous. #freemeakoopa https://t.co/z0FUidr0Hq
Twitter cited, as it has historically, “privacy and security reasons” when declining to comment.
Update: Oliveira’s account has been restored.
twitter suspended me bc I was impolite to straight people mocking the Pulse massacre.they have not apologized and I will not apologize.
Correction: A previous version of this article said that a tweet from @TwitterOpen had been deleted, but it has not.
Update June 13th 6:16 PM EST: Updated to include statement from Oliveira.
Update June 14th 12:18 PM EST: Updated to include Oliveira’s tweet.
Facebook has signed a deal to revive reality competition show Last State Standing, according to The Hollywood Reporter. American Ninja Warrior producer A. Smith and Co.’s Arthur Smith is behind the series, which will feature one contestant from each of the 50 states competing in games for a chance to win $500,000. A premiere date, episode count, and rollout plan are still undetermined, but production on the show has reportedly begun in Los Angeles.
Back in February, Facebook announced it hired MTV executive vice president Mina Lefevre to head development of the site’s scripted and unscripted content. Since then, contracts have been signed with outlets like BuzzFeed and Vox to create shortform series (shows 5- to 30-minutes in length).
Last State Standing’s deal comes on the heels of Facebook also reportedly closing in on a deal to revive Nicole Byer’s comedy series Loosely Exactly Nicole. The latter is a reunion for Lefevre and Byer: Lefevre originally helped develop Loosely Exactly Nicole during her tenure at MTV, where it ran for one season in October 2016.
Facebook’s original video content is expected to arrive close to the end of summer, and is part of the company’s concerted efforts, along with Facebook Live and rumors of an app for set-top TV boxes, to bring video to the forefront of user experience.
Since its debut in March, the Nintendo Switch has largely been a success — especially compared to its ill-fated predecessor, the Wii U. The console had the biggest initial two-day sales of any Nintendo console, and the company predicts that it will sell 13 million units by next April. Today at E3, Nintendo showed off a slate of games intended to keep that momentum going forward, including major first-party titles like Super Mario Odyssey, Pokémon, and Metroid Prime 4, as well as third-party games like FIFA 18 and Rocket League. According to Nintendo of America president Reggie Fils-Aimé, the early success and future plans of Switch actually have a lot to do with the comparative struggles of the Wii U.
“We knew during the development of Nintendo Switch that we had a product that was really breakthrough,” he says. “But taking all of our learnings from past launches, we also knew that we needed to make sure that the concept was clearly communicated and I think we’ve done that in spades. And we’re going to continue to do that. And then we needed to make sure that a regular cadence of great content would be there. We’ve been able to do that to date, and with what we’ve highlighted in the E3 Spotlight and what we’re going to be talking about all week, we’re going to be able to continue to do that. That’s the key for us.”
On the hardware side, while the Wii U was confusing to many — its tablet-like controller almost seemed like a Wii accessory as opposed to an entirely new platform — the benefits of the Switch’s hybrid nature are much more obvious. It’s a game console you can take on the go, something Nintendo has made clear in its commercials and press events, and proven to be compelling with early releases like The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild.
Outside of its messaging, one of the Wii U’s biggest issues was the long periods that went between major releases. That’s something Switch has been able to avoid, at least in these early days. The console debuted with the hugely successful Breath of the Wild, and is following it up with a steady stream of releases: Mario Kart 8 Deluxe launched in April, competitive fighter Arms debuts this week, Splatoon 2 launches next month, and an enhanced version of arcade fighter Pokken Tournament is coming in September. This all culminates with the release of Super Mario Odyssey on October 27th. Beyond that, today Nintendo also showed new Metroid, Pokémon, Kirby, and Yoshi games that will be launching in 2018 or later.
According to Fils-Aimé, the steady stream of games is a result of Nintendo being more considered with how it approaches developing new titles for Switch, especially compared to the Wii U. “We’ve been very thoughtful in the development cycle to make sure that the content would be ready when we needed it to be ready,” he says. “For example, Super Mario Odyssey — we knew it was critically important for that title to launch going into the holidays. And [producer Yoshiaki Koizumi] and the team made sure that that happened. Planning it out, and then having the dev teams be able to execute against that plan is essentially what we were able to do, and arguably what we weren’t able to do nearly as well with the launch of Wii U.”
The one big question that remains, however, is third-party games from developers that aren’t Nintendo. Switch features several notable indie developed games like Tumbleseed and Rocket League, while major publishers like Bethesda and EA have jumped on board as well. But while PS4 and Xbox One are comparatively similar to develop for, the Switch is a different beast. And this often creates issues with third-party games on the platform — they sometimes debut much later on Switch, or with fewer features.
Skyrim on Switch is a port of a game that originally came out in 2011, while the Switch version of FIFA 18 is missing the series’s incredibly popular story mode. It’s a similar issue that Nintendo faced with the Wii U — even if developers are interested in the platform, the technological hurdles make it difficult. “When we showed them Wii U, third-party developers were actually really excited about it,” says Fils-Aimé. “The challenge became, ‘How do I translate this interesting piece of tech into a compelling game?’ That’s where we didn’t see the completion of the circle.”
But the early success of Switch could be the remedy to this problem. With a big enough install base, the platform could become much more attractive to third-party developers and publishers, and — Fils-Aimé hopes — that would mean fewer late ports and feature-incomplete releases. “We would love to see that — whether it appears on our platform first, whether it appears at the same time as other platforms. That clearly is our goal,” he says. “But in the end, the developer needs to see that opportunity and dedicate the resources against it. The fact is, our development environment is a little bit different than the environment for other consoles, and so a third-party company needs to make a commitment to go down this, let’s call it alternate development path for Nintendo Switch.
“We believe that with a large install base, with a vibrant ecosystem, with a strong platform that delivers downloadable content, consumables, and all of the various ways that third-party developers are monetizing their content — if we deliver that, the content will come.”
The Federal Communications Commission does not have the authority to cap the cost of prison and jail phone calls within states, an appeals court ruled in a decision today, dealing a massive blow to inmates and their advocates who have spent years litigating caps on the cost of such calls.
Over several years, the FCC, under Democratic leadership, moved to cap the cost of calls for inmates. Activists argued that prisoners were effectively being extorted by private companies charging exorbitant rates — a move that benefited private prisons and the states that got cuts of the revenue. Some of those states joined with companies in appealing the FCC’s rules. The agency first moved to cap rates across state lines, and then, later, within states.
Today, the court ruled that the FCC had overstepped when it attempted to regulate the price of calls within states. In the majority opinion, the court left little wiggle room for advocates of price-capping, with the possible exception of the cross-state caps, which are a minority of calls made by inmates. The opinion vacated not only the agency’s proposed caps for in-state calls, but said the agency also lacked justification to require reports on video calling services. It also vacated a provision that would ban site commission payments.
“We’re profoundly disappointed,” says Lee Petro, who represented the Wright Petitioners, a group of families litigating for the rate caps. “Families lose, privately owned [inmate calling service] providers will win.”
The decision could end the years-long battle over the caps, which came to a head in a bizarre 11th-hour change from the Trump Administration. After current FCC Chairman Ajit Pai was appointed to lead the commission, the agency did not move to revoke the rules, but did stop defending them in court, leaving independent intervenors to continue the fight.
Pai has long opposed the rules, and lauded the court’s decision in a statement. “Today, the DC Circuit agreed with my position that the FCC exceeded its authority when it attempted to impose rate caps on intrastate calls made by inmates,” Pai said. “Looking ahead, I plan to work with my colleagues at the Commission, Congress, and all stakeholders to address the problem of high inmate calling rates in a lawful manner.”
It’s unclear if the decision will be appealed to the Supreme Court. Lee says all options are being reviewed.
Correction, 4:05PM: An earlier headline said the ruling applied to cross-state calls. It applies to in-state calls.
If you’re a Switch owner looking to use your Switch with a TV, there’s basically been only one good option since launch: Nintendo’s bundled dock. Unfortunately it’s bulky, tough to travel with, and expensive, costing $89.99 for a spare one (if you want to set one up on a second TV).
Nyko’s new Portable Docking Kit, announced at E3 2017, solves that problem by offering a miniature, $45 Switch dock that will both allow you to prop up your console and connect it to your TV over HDMI while charging it, as spotted by Gizmodo. It’s essentially the perfect solution for players who want to take Nintendo’s already portable console with them, but still want to be able to throw games up on a big screen at a friend’s house or a hotel room without using Nintendo’s far larger dock. Nyko’s dock also includes a USB-C AC adaptor and HDMI cable, so it’s fully equipped out of the box to serve as a second spare dock.
The only downside is that the smaller Portable Docking Kit lacks the two regular USB ports that Nintendo’s larger dock offers, so you won’t be able to connect things like an Ethernet adaptor using Nyko’s dock. Still, it’s a small price to pay for the enhanced portability of the dock.
The Nyko Portable Docking Kit will be out sometime in the fall.

You know what they say — you wait a decade or so for a passable Metroid game then two come along at once. At least that might just be what’s going to happen based on Nintendo’s E3 announcements today, where the company first revealed Metroid Prime 4 for Switch and then followed up with Metroid: Samus Returns for 3DS.
While Prime 4 will presumably be a continuation of the first-person take on Metroid, Samus Returns brings the beloved series back to its 2D roots. The graphics are rendered in 3D, granted, but Samus Returns is a side-scrolling game based on Metroid II: Return of Samus for the original Game Boy. Metroid II is a brutally difficult game that I was extremely bad at when I was nine years old, but Samus Returns does look to be somewhat tuned for modern sensibilities — having the map on the bottom screen alone will be a major help.
Metroid: Samus Returns will be out for 3DS on September 15th.
Some people get upset about the Star Wars special editions. Others take umbrage at remakes of classic horror films. Me? As I discovered this morning, I get upset over reboots of 1990’s Joel Schumacher thrillers. Like Flatliners.
The trailer for the film, which features a pretty impressive cast led by Ellen Page and Rogue One’s Diego Luna, was released this morning. And it features everything you’d expect from a movie about medical students that decide to kill themselves in the name of science only to discover that they can bring their sins back with them in physical form. There’s creepy scare beats. Cacophonous, orchestral music cues. It has blandly attractive actors like James Norton saying things like, “I didn’t know the side effects would show up and start hunting us down.” And it looks great, too, with clean, stylish photography — exactly what you’d expect from director Niels Arden Oplev, who previously made the original The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo.
But for me, and probably at least one other person, the original Flatliners was a seminal piece of 1990s filmmaking. It featured a mind-boggling cast of soon-to-be superstars, including Julia Roberts, Kiefer Sutherland, Kevin Bacon, and William Baldwin. (Okay, not all of them ended up stars.) It was directed by Joel Schumacher, fresh off The Lost Boys and St. Elmo’s Fire, and well before Batman Forever and Batman & Robin would ruin everything for everyone. The movie’s self-serious tone was perfect for the angsty decade that was to come — and oh, the way it looked. Flatliners had style for days, with the medical students working in some insane gothic horror show of a school filled with domineering statues and neon lighting for no reason whatsoever. It was like the coolest goth club you could never get into, only in movie form.
And so now I sit here, watching this new trailer — and sure, it’s the same premise as Flatliners. Page’s performance appears to be as fantastic as always. And as my colleague Chris Plante pointed out, it nails the ‘90s thriller vibe; I’d put it somewhere between Final Destination and I Know What You Did Last Semester In Medical School. But that’s never what made the original movie so appealing. The first Flatliners was wonderful because, flawed and ludicrous as it was, it nevertheless felt elevated and exotic to 15-year-old me. Stylish and bold, it was happy to traffic in cheap scares and cheaper melodrama even while it earnestly tried to tackle real themes like guilt and shame. You can call it High School Insecurities: The Movie, and you’d probably be right, but that didn’t change the fact that it worked.
That’s not to say the new Flatliners can’t do the same for a new generation. It certainly could, and I’m sure if I’d seen the original for the first time at the age I’m at now, I would have a totally different take on the film. So perhaps it’s a matter of perspective. Or it could be that I just don’t see the big picture yet. Kiefer Sutherland will appear in the new film, making it more of a distant sequel than a true reboot, and perhaps his character returning will connect the two movies in a rewarding way that’s not evident at the moment.
Either way, it’s not fair to judge a movie based on its trailer, and I look forward to seeing what the new Flatliners has to offer when it opens on September 29th. But in the meantime, I’m glad I recently picked up the original on iTunes. Today’s a good day to die.
Nintendo is at E3 this year, and the focus is expected to be on the recently released Switch, with a particular emphasis on Super Mario Odyssey, the upcoming Mario adventure for its latest console.
Microsoft issued a “highly unusual” patch for Windows XP last month to help prevent the spread of the massive WannaCry malware. At least 75,000 computers in 99 countries were affected by the malware which encrypts a computer and demands a $300 ransom before unlocking it. Microsoft stopped supporting Windows XP in April 2014, but the software giant is now taking the unprecedented move of including it in the company’s Patch Tuesday round of security updates today.
“In reviewing the updates for this month, some vulnerabilities were identified that pose elevated risk of cyberattacks by government organizations, sometimes referred to as nation-state actors, or other copycat organizations,” says Adrienne Hall, general manager of crisis management at Microsoft. “To address this risk, today we are providing additional security updates along with our regular Update Tuesday service. These security updates are being made available to all customers, including those using older versions of Windows.”
Microsoft says it is releasing updates for Windows XP, Windows Vista, and all other more recent unsupported and supported versions of Windows due to an “elevated risk” of attacks that are similar to the WannaCry malware. The patches will be made available on Microsoft’s Download Center or Windows Update. Microsoft says this move to release security updates for platforms not in extended support “should not be viewed as a departure from our standard servicing policies,” and that this is an exception based on intelligence that led it to believe government organizations may use these new vulnerabilities to attack Windows systems.
Microsoft isn’t explaining who or what has tipped the company off to these potential new attacks. March’s security patches included fixes for hacking tools that were leaked from the NSA, and Microsoft didn’t acknowledge the source of the security flaw reports then either. There has been speculation that The Shadow Brokers, a group that leaked the NSA exploits, tipped Microsoft in advance to the previous exploits. Microsoft also mysteriously delayed its Patch Tuesday release in February by a month in an unprecedented move, blaming a "last minute issue".
If you're still running Windows XP then these new patches should be installed immediately, even though Windows XP wasn't as badly affected by the first WannaCry attacks. While almost all WannaCry victims were running Windows 7 without the latest security updates, it's not clear if these new attacks might target Windows XP more aggressively this time around.
Fans of Spanish actress Elena Anaya might have had a hard time recognizing her in Patty Jenkins’ superhero sensation Wonder Woman. Anaya is a headliner in Spain, with starring roles in films including Pedro Almodóvar’s The Skin I Live In, the drama They Are All Dead, and the ghost story Fragile. She’s become an international star as well, in the UK’s Swung, France’s high-profile criminal profile Mesrine: Killer Instinct and Mesrine: Public Enemy #1, and Chile’s The Memory of Water. To people around the world, she’s a memorable face.
But in Wonder Woman, that face is largely covered by prosthetics and makeup, and Anaya’s intensity only comes through in her eyes. She plays villain Dr. Maru, aka Dr. Poison, the savage chemist pioneering an explosive new form of mustard gas that may win World War I for the German forces. It’s a comparatively small role for her, but it’s a central one. She puts a face — a badly damaged face, covered with prosthetic plates — on the war’s weapons of mass destruction. She brings an eerie sensitivity and soulfulness to her acts of mass murder. And in her best scene, she coldly confronts the film’s love interest, Chris Pine, as he infiltrates a German party as a spy. I recently talked to Anaya about the fantasies she built around Wonder Woman’s most enigmatic character, Dr. Maru’s future prospects in a Wonder Woman sequel, and how she got those hideous facial scars. Also: how Dr. Maru is both an ant and a snake.
This interview has been edited for clarity and brevity.
How did you approach playing Dr. Maru?
It was very tricky for me to take on the evil of this character, and to live up to Wonder Woman, the strongest female character ever written in a comic book. Dr. Maru loves rage and enjoys people’s pain. She’s creating terrible weapons, and her purpose in life is to kill as many people as possible, and provoke as much pain as possible. When you read a comic book script and then you’re responsible for approaching a character like this, you think, “Well, how is it possible that somebody invented a character like this?” And then unfortunately, I realized that more than ever, there are evil people in real life. They are on television, they are very powerful people, and they don’t wear masks like Dr. Maru wears. These people are villains in real life, hurting a lot of people, and they’re doing a lot of damage to mankind. So that’s one answer.
The other answer is, I did my research about World War I. There was a terrible moment when the army and science came together. I researched Fritz Haber, the chemist who created mustard gas. His personal history was very scary. He was a chemist in a beautiful marriage with another chemist. He wanted to be a powerful man, recognized by everybody. But his wife begged him to stop. The night before the first gas-bomb test, he said, “I’m not going to stop,” so she killed herself with his gun. You imagine this tortured person going to bomb tests with his wife dead in his house, with his love passed away in the process.
Were you thinking about backstories like that in terms of explaining where her rage and pain comes from?
Of course, of course! When I create a character, I read so many things. I get a lot of inspiration from real life. But then that’s not enough. You need to be secure, and to use your imagination and your own tools, your own experiences, to inhabit the feeling. I had to invent all her past, all her sorrows, and why she’s so tortured, and what happened to her. I created her past, her background. You can’t just put on a face, like “Okay, I’m going to be very evil.” I think she makes people suffer to avoid her own suffering, because she cannot suffer anymore. You can see at the end of the movie when she is begging with her eyes, “Do not kill me.” Because everybody is human at the end of the tale. Even if you’re superstrong and you feel like you’re the smartest person on earth, when someone is going to kill you, you’re scared. You feel like a tiny ant. All your insecurities come up.
What did your version of her history look like? Did you have a reason for her facial scars?
I went to Patty Jenkins and asked, “What happened to her?” And she said, “She did it on purpose.” I was like, “What? Patty, you’re going further than I ever imagined.” She said, “She wants to provoke painful suffering, so she tested her own gas on her own face. She wanted to know how deep this form of her gas would go, so she put it on her own face.” You can see half of her face is completely gone. This is the sadistic side of Dr. Maru. And that was the idea of Patty Jenkins, who gave me the best tools ever to work with a character.
The science behind Wonder Woman's chemical weapon.
If her scars were consciously self-inflicted, why do you think it’s important to her to wear a mask?
Well, first of all, she’s working in a lab. She needs some protection. Same as she wears protection with her boots and gear. But also, she doesn’t want to be seen. She’s like a shade, always in the background. She works day and night in her lab. She’s only trying to erase what happened to her face so she won’t get much attention. She needed to know how deep the gas would go. Okay, she got that, now she needs to keep working. She has no time to give explanations to anyone about what happened. She just doesn’t like to be looked at. She doesn’t like to be the center of any conversation. She works alone. She has hundreds of people building bombs outside of her lab, but the only person authorized to get inside is Ludendorff.
She’s obsessive. She’s a maniac. And she doesn’t care about her face. It’s not important to her. She just doesn’t want attention.
Did you think about her history before the scar? About what made her into this sadistic person?
I think we’re all born in the same condition: we are pure. In any country on the planet, we are born pure. And then we’re terribly changed as things happen in our lives. The reasons I created for her — it’s a long story! I think she suffered. That she had a love she loved so much, and that person went with somebody else. She felt betrayed, and it weighed on her mind and heart. And she became sick. When your pain is not in your body, you can’t get rid of it. It’s like a scar. It can get dark inside, get infected, and that infection can kill your body, even if it’s just a tiny cut on your finger.
She wants to be loved. She wants somebody to take care of her. She doesn’t want to be so lonely and so independent, but she’s completely alone. She would love to have people trust her, and not only because she has an amazing intelligence, not just for the chemist she became, but for the woman she is now. We all have humanity underneath all these masks we wear. But she went so far. She finds it very difficult to get rid of all the hate in her soul. She hates so much, so much.
You bring across so much of this anger and hurt with your eyes. Was it frustrating having so much of your face covered, trying to communicate a character with some of your tools taken away?
In some ways, the prosthetics help! I’d go to work every day and put on this beautiful costume — those are real army boots, worn by a female warrior in the first World War. They give you a face. They give you a look, a vision, a perspective. You see the world so differently behind that mask, because you’re hiding so much with the plates. I’m a person who tries to not hide anything at all. I’m super-clear always with all my friends, my family, my lovers, the people I run into every day. The people who hide and cheat and live in the shade, they’re so interesting to play.
I mean, of course those plates were painful on my face. They were glued on, I had to wear them like 12 hours a day. I basically couldn’t eat or drink the whole day. And for talking [hoarse, wheezing voice with slurping noises] you need to do this voice, with this saliva thing. I told Patty “I want to use this noise of the saliva in her mouth all the time,” and she said it was too much. I know they got rid of most of the takes where I had the saliva thing going on.
But always, when I have to wear a mask, or anything I can use for my character — long nails or special boots or a wig — that gives me power. Whatever helps, they’re like magic tools for actors, even though sometimes they’re a pain in the ass. On this occasion, I loved my mask so much. I was very happy every day to wear that beautiful costume and those beautiful plates, and see how people reacted to them. Sometimes I’d just watch the monitor. There’d be seven people around the set, and the minute they’d turn and see my face, they’re like [gasps theatrically] “Oh fuck! She’s here!” They were so impressed!
What do you know about Dr. Maru’s future? Gal Gadot and Patty Jenkins are contracted for a second Wonder Woman movie. Are you?
Yes yes yes. But I have no answer for that. As you know, when these movies are made, they ask you basically to marry them for the rest of your life. [Laughs] I’d be so happy to be back, to be able to be evil again. It’s so good, it’s so fantastic.
If she were to turn up again in a future film, what would you want out of her? What would you like to see her do?
Wow. I think Dr. Maru has a lot left to do, and show, and tell. She hides her femininity and vulnerability. It’s so easy for her to escape from every situation. She’s like a tiny criminal ant, it’s so difficult for her to be caught. She has many faces. You know, there is a moment in the movie when we see her face without the damage, and she looks like a fairly normal, easygoing chemist, like somebody who’s clever in her work. Who could tell that this person is going to invent the most destructive weapon ever? So I think Dr. Maru could have a nice side, and show it to the audience. It’d show a lot to the audience about evil people. About what I said about how they exist in real life, with a lot of power to changes everybody’s life.
How did current politics affect your performance?
I’m very in contact with reality. I love my job so much. This is what I dreamt to do. Being able to perform as a professional actress is a gift life has given me somehow. But on the other side, I’m very concerned about the situation in the real world. When I pick a project, I don’t just think about entertainment. I want to show people, while they’re in the movie, what kind of characters are in life, even though it’s a fiction movie. This movie talks about the world, about how we all have to do something — with power or without power, we have to try to get a better world. You know it’s going to be a very dangerous place.
I try to illustrate that evil exists. That evil can press a button and kill, can decide other people’s future and change mankind. They can provoke so much suffering. It’s happening in real life, and I think we’re all in shock, globally. There are so many crazy villains with power in our televisions every day. We just need to make the tiny effort to recognize them.
Patty Jenkins seems to have a particularly strong idea of how women can be heroes, how they can improve their roles in the world, and their portrayals in the media. How did the two of you work together on that question?
You know, I’m so proud of Patty Jenkins, since the first day I met her. I saw her fighting every day on set, defending her ideas. She was surrounded every day by so many people with so many opinions, giving their different points of view. With the best attitude, the best manners, she would explain to everyone why she wanted things this way. With so many people producing and offering opinions, it’s difficult, because you are one against 50 or more. Man or woman, if you become a director, you have to say, “We are going to take this direction, this is how I want it.” Everyone needs to marry her, in a way.
We have an expression in Spain: “She put everybody in her pocket.” Mostly at the end of the day, she got what she wanted. And she fought for it. She was so determined. She must have been exhausted afterward. But she had the best sense of humor, which is very important in this business. She’s an incredible woman, strong, very smart, very hard worker. She doesn’t get tired. She was in the first unit and then also in the second nighttime unit, running everywhere, doing everything. They’d say, “What are you doing here? You are Wonder Woman! What the hell! You should be sleeping, Patty!” “No, guys, I want to be with you and make sure everything’s clear.” It was such a big lesson, and I’m so proud. I celebrate every day these successes, because it means a lot for her, and for female directors.
Did you read any of the comics, or look at the history of the previous versions of the characters?
Yeah, I tried to find Dr. Poison at the beginning, when I got the script. I asked, “Holy shit, who is she?” I asked Patty, and she said, “Listen. We are doing this movie. There are so many comics. There are so many backgrounds, and so many things to put together. Let’s focus on what we have to tell in this script, which is a lot.” You just have to pick one background for yourself, even if it doesn’t match all the originals. You have to pick whatever the director asks you to play in the movie, and be conscious that your character is an important, clever piece, but it’s surrounded by so many other pieces You have to be conscious that you can’t tell the whole story just with your eyes. You try, but there is no room for everybody’s character background.
What was the environment like on set?
It was amazing. Patty has an amazing sense of humor. She was always very in contact with everybody’s needs, taking care of everybody like a mom, and laughing. The moment we had to be super-focused, we were super-focused. The moment we could relax, it was a very easygoing, relaxed atmosphere. And the lead actors, Chris and Gal, they made everybody’s energy very easygoing, even though it was a very expensive, crazy movie. It was like we were friends, like sometimes happens in independent movies. We were in a very good mood, and very proud of what we were doing.
How did you approach your big battle of wills with Chris Pine?
That was my first day on set. And that was cool. I had so much fun. I just wanted to look at his face and imagine and invent. When you have a face in front of your face, and that face is Chris Pine’s, it’s like, “Oh my goodness.” But it wasn’t Chris Pine’s face anymore, it was the character’s. And when he’s giving Dr. Maru attention, she’s thinking “What is going on here?” But she needs to hold her thoughts in and not show them to him. It was very fun. He’s such a good actor, and we had the whole day to shoot the scene. Patty was doing so many takes, asking us so many things.
I remember for that scene, Patty came to me and said, “Could you imagine that you’re a very ugly snake?” And I was like, “Yeah, Patty, I thought about it. If I had to think of an animal as my character, it would be a snake. But what kind of snake?” And then we went farther in on that look she gives him, the look of somebody who is still, but can kill you in a second, with just a tiny movement. The snake just holds its movement and looks at you, like hypnotizing you, but if it wanted, it could strangle you and eat you. I had so much fun.
Sony didn’t have a lot it needed to do at E3 this year. The company has had a sizable lead this console generation over the Xbox One in terms of overall units shipped, and the PlayStation 4 platform is coming off an early 2017 that was filled with big software wins like Horizon Zero Dawn, Nier: Automata, and Persona 5. While Microsoft had a lot to prove with the unveiling of the Xbox One X, Sony simply needed to follow up on its many announced titles.
And that’s more or less exactly what Sony did. The company played it safe this year without any real big surprises or reveals at the event. There was simply a steady stream of trailers and footage from upcoming PlayStation 4 and PSVR games, with extended looks at some games (like Insomniac’s Spider-Man) and more context for others.
Given that E3 itself is just getting started, and we’ve yet to get some hands-on time with most of what Sony showcased at its presentation, it’s still too early to say whether or not Sony has come out as the so-called “winner” of E3 this year. But can we break down Sony’s announcements at its event to see how things stand for the PlayStation 4 moving into the second half of 2017 and beyond.
In recent years, Sony has kept games its focus at E3, and this event was no exception. The entire showcase was essentially a parade of trailers and gameplay clips for big-budget PlayStation exclusives: Uncharted: The Lost Legacy, Days Gone, God of War, Spider-Man, Detroit: Become Human, and an expansion for Horizon Zero Dawn. In fact, Sony only featured a couple of games that weren’t exclusive to the PlayStation 4, including Destiny 2, which will have content available as a timed exclusive on PS4 and Call of Duty: WW2, which is getting an early multiplayer beta on PS4 this summer.
It’s a bold statement: if you want access to the most big-budget AAA games, then you’ll need a PlayStation. The strategy stands out when compared Microsoft’s somewhat lackluster E3 for blockbuster titles (which was basically just Forza 7, Crackdown 3, and Sea of Thieves).
Console-exclusive titles are bad for players, but they aren’t going away anytime soon. And Sony showed at E3 this year that it’s got a really strong lineup of big games for the PS4 going forward.
Alongside the mainstream PS4 games was a dedicated section of the presentation for PSVR, which Sony seems to be taking more seriously than platforms like the Vita portable or Move motion controllers. Until Dawn developer Supermassive Games showed off trailers for some more serious VR games: the horror thriller Inpatient and a squad-based shooter called Bravo Team. On the lighter side of things, there was Starchild, a space adventure game with giant, glowing robots and Moss, which starred an adorable animated mouse warrior and is probably the closest thing we’re ever going to get to a Redwall game. Skyrim is coming to the PSVR, in the event that you haven’t played that enough times over yet. And let’s not forget Monster of the Deep, for that virtual reality Final Fantasy experience you never knew you wanted.
It’s a diverse lineup aimed at multiple kinds of VR users, from hardcore to casual, and it’s a reassuring sign that virtual reality and the PSVR aren’t just a passing distraction for Sony.
There was one big surprise from Sony at the event, and it was a doozy. Shadow of the Colossus, one of the most beloved PS2 games of all time, is getting a full HD remake next year. Given that Sony already had released a PS3 remaster in 2011, it’s hard to say that anyone was really asking for this, but the trailer looks spectacular, and unlike previous remakes of beloved games unveiled at Sony press conferences (looking at you, Final Fantasy VII Remake), we’ll hopefully be able to play the redone Shadow of Colossus sometime next year.
While Sony may have done an excellent job at highlighting its slate of upcoming software, the presentation was conspicuously lacking when it came to any mention of hardware, particularly the recently released PlayStation 4 Pro.
It’s a glaring omission given that close to a year after the Pro launched, there are still few PS4 games that support the updated hardware. But it’s especially strange given that Microsoft has put almost all of its focus at E3 this year on the Xbox One X, declaring it “the most powerful console ever,” and with an emphasis that the One X is the single best place for true 4K console gaming without compromise.
Sony has already had difficulty explaining why people should pick up a PlayStation 4 Pro over a regular PS4, and now, with another, more powerful 4K console to compete with, the company did nothing at E3 to clarify things. Sony didn’t say that any of its new games would look better on a Pro, or highlight any graphical improvements that gamers would see on the more powerful hardware.
It’s great that Sony had new trailers for a range of games. But, PSVR titles aside, almost none of these titles were new. Indie games were — as our friends at Polygon pointed out — weirdly absent. While the surprise of Shadow of the Colossus was nice, Sony spent most of its time on new trailers for games we’ve already seen. There was little to indicate what it has planned next. We know of a number of other big-name PS4 exclusive that are on the way — including Death Stranding, The Last of Us Part Two, and Final Fantasy VII Remake — but all were absent from the company’s E3 showcase.
PS4 exclusive games at Sony’s E3 conference that have vague release dates or no release window at all: Days Gone, God of War, Detroit: Become Human, Shadow of Colossus, Horizon Zero Dawn’s Frozen Wild DLC, Spider-Man, Skyrim VR, Starchild, Inpatient, Bravo Team, and Moss.
PS4 exclusive games at Sony’s E3 conference with an actual, semi-concrete release date: Uncharted: The Lost Legacy (out August 22nd) and Monster of the Deep, the Final Fantasy XV fishing simulator, will be out this September.
Correction: Uncharted: The Lost Legacy is out August 22nd. This post has been updated to reflect that.
Nintendo was the last of the three major companies to present at E3 this year (which it did through its now traditional online Spotlight stream as opposed to a full blown press conference), and as expected, the focus was all about the Switch.
Want to catch up? Here’s what the biggest news was out of Nintendo’s stream.
Super Mario Odyssey is Nintendo’s next big blockbuster Switch game, and its out on October 27th. Along with the release date, Nintendo showed a new trailer for the game, showing off some of the new gameplay mechanics and levels. In Odyssey, Mario will be accompanied by Cappy, who players will be able to use to take control of enemy characters (including a giant T-Rex!) in a new Capture mechanic.
Metroid fans, rejoice! After almost ten years of waiting (filled only with the poorly received Metroid: Other M and bizarre spin-off Federation Force) Nintendo has finally announced a fourth Metroid Prime game, coming to the Switch. There’s barely any other information — no release date, screenshots, or gameplay trailer — but presumably they’ll be more on the latest adventures of Samus Aran in the coming months
If you were disappointed when Nintendo didn’t announce a Pokémon game in the core RPG series of the franchise for the Switch at its Pokémon-themed Nintendo Direct last week, good news: Game Freak is working on one. Unfortunately, that’s all we really have on it for now, but at least we know it exists.
In slightly more concrete news, Nintendo showed off some trailers for new Yoshi and Kirby games coming to the Switch in 2018. The Kirby title showed off some new gameplay where Kirby can befriend enemies, instead of simply eating them for their abilities. Meanwhile, the Yoshi game seems to be a follow up to Yoshi's Woolly World, this time setting the action in a world built out of cardboard, with an interesting mechanic where players can flip over the 2D levels to the other side. Both games offer cooperative gameplay, which should gel nicely with the Switch’s Joy-Con controller.
Rocket League is making its way to the Nintendo Switch this holiday season, with some Nintendo-themed items and cars exclusive to the Switch edition. Interestingly, the Rocket League will offer cross network play against other platforms, although developer Psyonix has yet to detail exactly how that will work.
Mario’s next adventure looks incredibly wild and inventive — even by Nintendo standards. Today the company showed off the latest trailer for Super Mario Odyssey, which follows in the sandbox footsteps of the genre-defining Super Mario 64, revealing an experience that looks to be absolutely crammed with ideas and potential.
One of the core components of the game is Mario’s hat, which has been turned into a sentient character named Cappy, who can be tossed onto characters, enemies, objects, and vehicles, transforming Mario in the process. The trailer shows everything from a Mario T. rex to a Mario tank to a Mario Bullet Bill. The levels themselves, meanwhile — which range from urban cityscapes to typical desert and ice worlds — look to be very dense with things to discover and interact with. At one point in the trailer, the game even shifts to an old-school, side-scrolling Mario experience.
Super Mario Odyssey will be the biggest Switch game since The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild at launch, and it’s coming later this year. Nintendo revealed today that Odyssey will be available on October 27th.
Nintendo detailed what to expect from the first of the two DLC packs for The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild back in May, and now we know when we’ll be able to get it: June 30th.
The first DLC expansion, The Master Trials, will include several new additions to the base game, including a new “Trial of the Sword” mode, where players will be forced to fight waves of enemies, but without any of their existing equipment that they’ve gathered over the course of their play-through. Completing the trial will power up the Master Sword further, allowing it to deal double damage at all times.
Additionally, a new “Master Mode” — i.e., hard mode — will be added, which increases the difficult by upgrading all the enemies found in the game (some of whom will now take to the sky on flying rafts), along with a variety of new armors and costumes inspired by earlier Zelda titles.
Nintendo also gave a brief teaser of the second DLC pack for Breath of the Wild, scheduled to release this holiday season. Titled “The Champions’ Ballad”, the expansion will somehow involve the four Champions —  Daruk, Mipha, Revali and Urbosa — although more details on that are still forthcoming. New Amiibo figures based on the four Champions are also in the works.
Yoshi is swapping wool for paper in his next adventure. At its E3 spotlight today, Nintendo unveiled the next Yoshi game, and it looks like a cross between Yoshi’s Woolly World and Paper Mario. Which is to say, it’s incredibly cute and cuddly. Outside of aesthetics, though, it appears to be more of what you’d expect from a new Yoshi game. Namely lots of side-scrolling action, filled with egg tossing and platforming. The game — which is currently just called Yoshi — is slated to launch on Nintendo Switch some time next year.
LG’s latest ultrawide monitor has been designed with gamers in mind. The new 34-inch monitor (34UC89G) features a 2560 x 1080 display with NVIDIA G-Sync and a 144Hz refresh rate.
The 21:9 monitor is a successor to the 34UC79G from LG, which also ran at 144Hz, but supported FreeSync instead of G-Sync. The 34UC89G features a widened color gamut, unique display modes including black stabilizer and dynamic action sync, and the refresh rate can be overclocked to 166Hz.
The 34UC89G comes in at $999, and will be available at retailers including Amazon, Newegg, and B&H later today.
According to Variety, a recent hire at Google indicates big changes are coming for future versions of the Pixel phone. Manu Gulati, an Apple micro-architect who worked on the company’s chip development for nearly eight years, has just joined Google, announcing the hire today on his Linkedin profile.
With a new title of lead SoC architect, Gulati’s move could, on the surface, arguably point to any number of Google SoC (system on a chip) developments. The company currently has none. It’s a new position for Google, which currently relies on third-party chips for all their products. Nest uses a chip by Texas Instruments, for example, while current Pixel phones use Qualcomm.
The focus on developing chips for Pixel, however, seems to be confirmed by a over a dozen new SoC-related job offers posted by Google — many specific to mobile — including “Hardware Engineer, Mobile SoC Architect,” “Mobile SoC CPU Architect,” and “Mobile SoC Memory Architect.” The listings include phrases like “Architect the memory sub-system of a high-end mobile SoC; including core configuration and PPA (performance, power, area) tradeoffs,” and “Help define the architecture of future generations of phone and tablet SoCs.”
Internally designed chips were not a focus for Google in the past, but this looks to be changing. It’s likely due in no small part to the drastically increased burden placed on phone hardware in recent years to not only handle more processor-heavy experiences like VR and AR, but voice and visual cues without latency. Apple recently debuted Core ML at WWDC, its new machine learning framework API for developers that directly tackles these issues. Craig Federighi, Apple’s SVP of software engineering, says the new API makes the iPhone six times faster at image recognition than the Google Pixel.
While The Information reported that Google was in talks to develop their own chips as far back as 2015, it’s become an increasingly crucial step for the company to advance in order to compete with Apple’s iPhone, and really, what consumers are demanding from mobile devices. (Our previous headline from 2016: “The Google phone is almost as good as the iPhone.”)
Gulati’s hire, coupled with Google’s additional bevy of job listings and recent news that  it’s reportedly offered to invest around $880 million in LG’s Display division, shows a real effort on Google’s end to crank up hardware and mobile efforts for future products.
Take a deep breath: Nintendo is actually making a new Metroid game. At its E3 spotlight today, the company officially unveiled Metroid Prime 4, the latest entry in the beloved sci-fi exploration series. Unfortunately, outside of the name and the fact that it’s coming to Nintendo Switch, we know nothing about the game itself.
The new game will mark the first entry in the Prime series in a decade, as the original trilogy concluded with Metroid Prime 3: Corruption on the original Wii in 2007. The Prime subseries debuted on the GameCube in 2002, and was especially notable for successfully translating the iconic, moody exploration of the original Metroid games into a three-dimensional, first-person experience.
However, since the Prime trilogy wrapped up, it’s been tough times for Metroid fans. The most recent game in the series — Metroid Prime: Federation Force on 3DS — was a mostly forgettable shooter that had little of what made the series so iconic in the first place.
No release window has been announced for Prime 4, but given the sparse details available, the game is likely still fairly early in development.
A new Pokémon game is in the works for the Switch, Nintendo revealed today at its E3 Spotlight presentation. And unlike the recently announced Pokkén Tournament DX, the upcoming title is a proper “core” RPG Pokémon game from developer Game Freak, who has developed every title in the main Pokémon series since the original release of Pokémon Red and Blue back in 1996.
The news comes on the heels of Nintendo’s Pokémon-themed Direct presentation last week, which to the disappointment of many fans, saw an announcement of Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon for the Nintendo 3DS, leaving the Switch with only an upgraded port of Pokkén Tournament from the Wii U.
It’s unclear whether or not the Switch Pokémon game is the long-rumored Pokémon Stars — said to be a port of the existing Pokémon Sun and Moon from the 3DS — or a new entry in the series. In any event, it will mark the first time in the history of the series that a “main” Pokémon RPG title is coming to a home console. (Given the Switch’s portable nature, however, that title may be up for debate.)
Nintendo didn’t give any more information on the upcoming game, except to note that it won’t be released until sometime next year at the earliest.
When Nintendo officially unveiled the Nintendo Switch back in January, the company showed off an impressive slate of role-playing games for the device. One of those was the massive open world of Xenoblade Chronicles 2 — and at E3 this year Nintendo is giving an even deeper look at the game with a brand new trailer.
Much like the rest of the series, Xenoblade Chronicles 2 takes place in a beautiful fantasy-meets-science-fiction world, one that stands out due to sheer scale. The new trailer shows off massive explorable worlds, and towering enemies and flying fortresses. It’s the kind of game that should be a great fit for Switch, where players can get in a bit of exploration wherever they go.
And it won’t be too long before you can venture into the world of Xenoblade Chronicles 2, either — the game is launching this holiday season.
While most of Nintendo’s announcements at E3 focused on upcoming games for the remainder of this year, the company did give a glimpse at some titles for farther down the line, including a first look at a new Kirby side-scroller.
The new game — currently just called Kirby for now — features Nintendo’s ravenous pink puffball as he goes about his usual repertoire of devouring enemies to assume their abilities and floating through the air. But Kirby for the Switch seems to be built around a new mechanic whereby Kirby can also befriend his enemies instead of eating them, after which they join the player as either computer-controlled or multiplayer allies. Each enemy type seems to have their own moves for when they’re befriended, and in addition to fighting alongside Kirby, allies will be able to join together for powerful team up attacks,
Given the push by Nintendo for local multiplayer on the Switch, it’s easy to imagine that Kirby will presumably feature local cooperative multiplayer using the Joy-Con controllers, although there’s no confirmation of that yet.
Kirby is expected to release for the Switch sometime in 2018.
Vizio has been on a hell of a journey in the past couple of years, from smart TVs, to dumb TVs with tablets for remotes, to a new kind of smart-ish TV in this year's P-Series and M-Series SmartCast lineup. The line of 4K TVs has slightly improved picture quality and more color, but what makes it most interesting is the in-depth rethink of how app-based TV should work.
The M-Series starts out at $699.99 for the M55, a 55-inch 4K "XLED Plus" display. For $2,499.99 you can get the 75-inch version. The P-Series has more LED dimming zones for better contrast ("XLED Pro"), and higher refresh rates — 240Hz compared to 120Hz in the M screens. The 55-inch P55 model is $999.99, and you can go up to 75 inches for $3,499.99. The new lineup is available now online and in stores.
Rocket League is heading to the Switch, as revealed by Nintendo in its E3 Spotlight announcement stream. The popular virtual soccer game took the world by storm over the summer of 2015, when it was first released on PC and PS4, followed by a Xbox One and Mac OS X versions in 2016.
The Rocket League reveal was mixed in with an opening reel of gamers going head-to-head in a variety of competitive games for the Switch, including Arms, Splatoon 2, and Pokkén Tournament DX.
Later on in the presentation, Rocket League developer Psyonix detailed that the Switch port will be released this coming holiday season. Rocket League on the Switch will include some exclusive Nintendo-themed customization items and cars (like a Mario cap), and in a significant bit of news, will feature cross network online multiplayer against other platforms, although details on how that will work and what platforms will be compatible are still rather slim.
Along with the Nintendo exclusive items, Rocket League on the Switch will also include a local wireless multiplayer mode, presumably similar to Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. And while no mention was made of split-screen co-op on the Switch, the feature is supported on the Xbox One, PS4, and PC, so it’s possible that it could make its way to the local multiplayer-focused Switch as well.
GM just popped the hood on its small but growing fleet of self-driving Chevy Bolts. The 109-year-old automaker announced today that it has completed production on 130 additional all-electric autonomous vehicles at its Orion assembly plant in Michigan.
This round of Bolts has been fitted with a new version of the self-driving technology that GM has been developing with Cruise Automation, a San Francisco-based autonomous vehicle startup that the company acquired in early 2016. They’ll soon meet up with the 50 Bolts that are using the current Cruise / GM technology to drive the streets of San Francisco; Scottsdale, Arizona; and Detroit.
GM first signaled its interest in self-driving cars back in 2015 when it started testing the tech on a few Chevy Volts. But it wasn’t until the company invested $500 million in Lyft in January 2016 (and the subsequent acquisition of Cruise) that it started talking up an ambitious goal of developing a fleet of for-hire robot vehicles. Since then, the automaker’s been steadily revealing more about the project, including dashboard footage of the first-generation tests.
Apart from a few spy shots, though, this is the first official look GM’s offered of the Bolt’s new kit of sensors. They’re fitted with the usual stuff like LIDAR and cameras, but GM’s not saying much more beyond that.
This is likely far from the last round of self-driving Bolts to be assembled in Michigan — GM reportedly wants to have thousands of them roaming public roads in 2018, and Lyft is gearing up to deploy the autonomous vehicles to its existing ride-sharing system by 2020 or 2021.


Sprint just launched a new promotion that’s a very good deal but also seems like the ultimate Hail Mary throw of desperation. The company is offering an entire year of free service — including unlimited data, talk, and text — to customers who switch to the carrier and bring over an eligible phone. Current postpaid subscribers at Verizon, AT&T, and T-Mobile are eligible for the deal, and it also covers family plans. Here’s the page that explains the offer, and I’m not really seeing any alarming fine print or gotchas. There’s no contract involved. You’ve got to pay a $30 activation fee up front, but that gets refunded within two billing cycles. Also, this is only for new Sprint customers.
But so long as you sign up sometime before June 30th and port over a number from one of Sprint’s main rivals, you get a year’s worth of service that runs through July 31st, 2018. It’s not totally free, mind you. Sprint notes that you’ll have to cover a SIM card and pay taxes and fees each month, and you’ll get hit with other monthly charges if you turn off AutoPay or eBilling. Disabling both AutoPay and eBilling will result in a recurring $7.99 payment each month.
Sprint’s unlimited plan includes:
You must own the phone that you’re bringing to Sprint, as well. So if you’re paying a monthly installment plan, you’re out of luck. Sprint lists the following devices as eligible for the free year of service:
Apple iPhone 5C (Verizon only), iPhone 5S (Verizon only), iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 6S, Apple iPhone 6S Plus, Apple iPhone 7 (Verizon only), Apple iPhone 7 Plus (Verizon only), Apple iPhone SE
Google Nexus 5 (AT&T and Verizon only), Nexus 5X, Nexus 6, Nexus 6P, Pixel, Pixel XL
Motorola E4, Z2 Play, G4, G4 Play, G4 Plus, G5 Plus, Moto X Pure Edition, Galaxy S7 edge Special Edition, Galaxy S7 Special Edition, Galaxy S8 Special Edition, Samsung Galaxy S8+ Special Edition
I’m guessing that “Special Edition” is Sprint’s weird way of referring to the unlocked US versions of the Galaxy S7 and S8 devices, since those are compatible with the carrier’s network. Just make sure you’ll be happy with whatever phone you currently have for another few months. Sprint says:
After 10/1/17, you can upgrade to a new Sprint phone by leasing or purchasing it in monthly installments - you’ll still enjoy your free year of service. Any upgrades prior to 10/1/17 will require a plan change to Unlimited data, talk and text and you’ll lose the remaining free months in your year of free service.
So if Sprint’s network is serviceable where you are, this might be a thing worth at least investigating to see if a year of potentially very significant savings is worth bailing on whichever carrier you’re with right now. Once the promotional period ends, you’ll pay $60 for a single unlimited line or more depending on your family plan situation.
A group of 30 entertainment companies, including power players like Netflix, HBO, and NBCUniversal, have joined forces today in an effort to fight online piracy. The new group is called the Alliance for Creativity and Entertainment (ACE), and the partnership, while somewhat thin on specifics, will allow the content creators involved to pool resources to conduct research and work closely with law enforcement to find and stop pirates from stealing movies and TV shows.
The first-of-its-kind alliance is composed of digital media players, networks, and Hollywood outfits, and all recognize how the internet has paved the way to an explosion in quality online content. However, piracy has boomed as a result: ACE says that last year saw 5.4 billion downloads of pirated films and TV shows.
"In this golden age of content it's more important than ever that we remain vigilant about copyright protection,” says CBS executive VP Jonathan Anschell in a statement. “For the creative community to truly flourish, it must know that its work will be safe from theft.”
To ensure that, the group will work with organizations like the MPAA in the US and other outfits in Europe to uncover large-scale criminal operations, file litigation, and seek agreements with companies to reduce stealing. Those efforts will combine with the work each company already does to combat piracy online, though it’s not totally clear how much and how quickly this coalition will ramp up the fight and what specific measures against pirates might be taken.
The full list of ACE partners includes: Amazon, AMC Networks, BBC Worldwide, Bell Canada and Bell Media, Canal+ Group, CBS Corporation, Constantin Film, Foxtel, Grupo Globo, HBO, Hulu, Lionsgate, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM), Millennium Media, NBCUniversal, Netflix, Paramount Pictures, SF Studios, Sky, Sony Pictures Entertainment, Star India, Studio Babelsberg, STX Entertainment, Telemundo, Televisa, Twentieth Century Fox, Univision Communications Inc., Village Roadshow, The Walt Disney Company, and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.
The creation of ACE is a major concerted effort from the entertainment industry against online piracy, and comes months after the failure of the MPAA and RIAA’s “six strikes” initiative. Meanwhile, pirates have gotten particularly brazen lately. Back in April, a pirate named The Dark Overload managed to steal the fifth season of Netflix’s Orange Is the New Black, claiming that shows from ABC, Fox, National Geographic, and IFC had also been stolen.
Disclosure: NBCUniversal is an investor in Vox Media, The Verge’s parent company.
Update 12:45pm ET: A previous version of this article stated that ACE would forge agreements with pirates to reduce stealing. That was incorrect. The group will make deals with legitimate companies. The piece has been updated.
Amazon’s Echo is great. It’s a speaker for music, a digital assistant with Amazon’s excellent Alexa voice control, and a useful smart home controller. But why buy an Echo from Amazon when you could build one yourself? Here’s how:
To put together your own Echo, you’ll need a few supplies. The most important thing is a Matrix Creator or Matrix Voice. They’re development platforms that connect to a Raspberry Pi and are designed to help makers test new hardware applications at a low cost. More importantly for us, they feature an eight-microphone array, which is perfect for creating our DIY Alexa. Any microphone will technically work, but the multiple microphone array is the closest you’ll get to Amazon’s own system on a budget.
Next, we’ll need the aforementioned Raspberry Pi. If the Matrix is the ears of our DIY Echo, the Pi is the brains. It’ll supply the processing power to run Amazon’s Alexa Voice Service, the audio output to connect a speaker, and Wi-Fi or Ethernet to connect to Amazon’s servers to get the answers to whatever you ask your Alexa. A Raspberry Pi 3 will have onboard Wi-Fi, but if you have an older one, you’ll need to pick up a USB adapter or plug in via Ethernet. You’ll also need a keyboard, mouse, and display to hook up to your Pi for the setup process.
Optionally, you’ll want a USB battery pack, to allow for your DIY Echo to work away from a wall outlet, a speaker for improved audio output, and some cardboard and tape to make a case.
We’ll be working off the official Alexa GitHub repository’s guide to running the Alexa Voice Service on a Raspberry Pi so you’ll want to follow along here. Additionally, we’ll be using some modifications from Matrix to take advantage of the more advanced mics the Creator or Voice have to offer.
First off, you’ll want to hook up your Raspberry Pi to your screen, keyboard, and mouse, and then plug in your Matrix Creator. Following the guide from the Alexa GitHub, you’ll need to create an Amazon developer account, and register a device — in this case, our Raspberry Pi — with a device and security profile.
Next, you’ll need to install the Amazon Voice Service sample app from the GitHub page.  Once you’ve gotten the installer ready, continue to follow the instructions to input the security profile information from the earlier step, and then begin the installation. Let it run; it’ll take roughly 20–30 minutes to finish.
Once that’s done, flip over to the Matrix guide: you’ll need to configure the Pi to use the Matrix microphones, and install the Matrix software.
Then, all you need to do is follow the final step from the Alexa GitHub guide, and start the three software processes you need to access the Alexa voice service. Unfortunately, you’ll have to do that every time you boot up the Pi to get the Alexa services running. While it is possible to do some more work in the terminal to get all this to launch at startup so the keyboard mouse and screen aren't required every time, that's beyond the scope of this tutorial.
Once that’s up and running, congratulations! You’ll have your very own Echo. But to really finish things off, you’ll want to cut out a tube of cardboard, hook up a battery pack and speaker, disconnect the mouse, screen, and keyboard, and tape everything up together in a roughly cylindrical package for the true faux-Echo experience.
As of today, Verizon is officially the owner of Yahoo. Yahoo’s assets are now being mashed up with those of AOL, which Verizon bought in 2015, into a horribly named new division called Oath. Oath will contain sites like HuffPost, Yahoo Sports, TechCrunch, and Engadget, as well as apps and services like Alto and Brightroll. Tumblr will also fall under the Oath umbrella.
With the deal complete, it’s also being announced that Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer is departing the combined company. Mayer was an incredible hire by Yahoo when it brought her on as CEO five years ago. She came to the company after spending more than a decade at Google spearheading key products like search and Maps.
Yahoo was obviously a challenge to turn around. And while Mayer didn’t exactly save the company, its share price more than tripled during her tenure. (Although, much of that value may have come from an early Yahoo investment in Alibaba; Verizon isn’t acquiring that investment as part of this deal.)
The Yahoo acquisition has taken a long time to close. Verizon initially made an offer last July, for $4.83 billion in cash. But the deal hit a number of speed bumps after it was revealed that Yahoo had been subject to multiple major data breaches. Verizon decided to stick with Yahoo anyway, ultimately just shaving $350 million off the purchase price.
Like its AOL deal, the Yahoo deal is about turning Verizon into an advertising juggernaut. Not only is it acquiring ad technology from Yahoo, but it’s acquiring another suite of highly visited sites. Combine that with the information Verizon is already able to mine from AOL visitors and its own internet service customers, and the company is able to get an increasingly big picture of what people spend their time doing online. That’ll help it better target ads, especially as companies like Google and Apple begin to cut down on what advertisers are able to get away with online.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration just awarded the Tesla Model X a 5-star safety rating in every category and subcategory after conducting the first independent crash test of the electric vehicle since its launch in 2015. Tesla was quick to trumpet the rating, noting the Model X was the first SUV to receive the federal government’s highest safety rating across the board.
The NHTSA also released this video of the Model X crash test, so we can watch the vehicle crumple like an accordion from multiple angles.
“Model X performs so much better in a crash than gas-powered SUVs because of its all-electric architecture and powertrain design,” Tesla said in a blog post. “The rigid, fortified battery pack that powers Model X is mounted beneath the floor of the vehicle creating a center of gravity so low that Model X has the lowest rollover probability of any SUV on the road. No other SUV has ever come close to meeting and exceeding this rollover requirement.”
That rollover probability is so low, Tesla once claimed its engineers couldn’t even “flip” the Model X during internal crash tests. Rollover is often the main safety problem for SUVs. Tesla claims that Model X owners have a 93 percent probability of walking away from a crash without serious injury.
Indeed, Tesla CEO Elon Musk often tweets out stories about accidents involving Teslas where no injuries were reported.
T-boned in a Model X at 65 mph  https://t.co/vt6g89Z9rk
Tesla has always been bullish about its crash resilience, going so far as to boast that the Model S broke the NHTSA crash test ratings record in 2013. This turned out to be slightly exaggerated, prompting NHTSA to revise its advertising guidelines to forbid automakers from stating that a car received a higher score than what’s possible.
Tesla’s commitment to safety took a hit last year when a Model S owner was killed when his car smashed into a truck. The fatal accident took on new relevance when it was revealed that the Model S was in Autopilot mode, prompting questions about the safety of Tesla’s advanced driver assist system. NHTSA later exonerated Tesla for any involvement in the crash.
Still, the 5-star safety rating for the Model X is certainly an important feather in Elon Musk’s cap, especially as he guides his company into a very crucial year. Next month, Tesla is expected to begin delivery of the Model 3, the company’s first mass-market electric vehicle. And in September, Musk has said he will unveil Tesla’s first stab at an all-electric semi truck.

If you want a truly massive 4K TV in your house — and you have a nearly limitless budget to make it happen — there’s only one option for you: the C Seed 262. This monstrosity comes in at 262 inches, a staggering size that makes a 100-inch TV look tiny in comparison.
It’s hard to overstate how massive the 1,763-pound C Seed 262 is. It comes with 10 integrated speakers for a 9.1 cinema surround sound environment; there is a remote-controlled fabric cover that protects the 19-foot-wide LED screen; and there’s even a built-in 4K media server.
We asked C Seed how much the 262 will cost, and it’s quite a bit. The TV alone will cost $539,000, and if you want it installed (with a “project management package”) that will cost you another $38,500. As my astute colleague Vlad Savov noted, "This TV costs more than a New York apartment, which is apt because it's bigger than a New York apartment."
Given that the company assumes you own a mansion in its press release — it asks you to “enjoy a viewing experience that up to now was simply unavailable outside a private movie theatre in a remote corner of your mansion” — the price isn’t that surprising.
The C Seed 262 is available this summer. Have your assistant look into it.
Arizona-based company World View Enterprises has an ambitious goal: send humans to the upper edges of the atmosphere using high-altitude balloons. It’s a dream that’s still years away from being a reality, so in the meantime, the company is aiming to send something a bit smaller to the edge of space: fried chicken.
Today, World View announced that it will be sending Kentucky Fried Chicken’s new spicy Zinger chicken sandwich to the stratosphere for multiple days. The sandwich’s ride is the Stratollite, the company’s balloon vehicle that acts a bit like a low-hanging satellite — except it doesn’t orbit Earth and you don’t need a rocket to launch it. The Stratollite is essentially a high-altitude balloon designed to leisurely float about 100,000 feet up, while carrying instruments or probes that can provide communications services, for instance, or scan the Earth’s surface. For this flight, the balloon will be holding a chicken sandwich.
The mission may seem like a gimmick, but the point is to test out a significant capability for World View. The Stratollite will stay in the stratosphere for four days — the longest the vehicle has ever flown. Up until now, test flights of the Stratollite have lasted between six and 12 hours. But eventually, the company hopes to keep these vehicles in place for months to a year at a time. So the chicken flight could be a big step toward making even longer duration missions a reality. (There’s no real reason the payload has to be a chicken, of course, but why not? Brands helping brands.)
To stay in the upper atmosphere for extended periods of time, the Stratollites are designed to “surf” the high-altitude winds. The vehicles will use data collected by national weather services and also by its own onboard instruments to determine which direction the upper atmosphere winds are headed. The Stratollite can then shift its altitude to ride these winds and remain in the same general location over the Earth. Such a technique will allow the balloon to fly in a circle that’s about a few miles across.
“Think of it as sailing the stratosphere,” World View CEO Jane Poynter told The Verge in February. “We’re sailing with the winds and take advantage of the fact that these winds are moving in all these different directions.”
This flight will be the first one in which all of the different subsystems of the Stratollite are put to the test. Before the company has tested out parts of the altitude control system, for instance, as well parts of the communications system. Now, they’ll all be working together, along with the solar power technology that will provide power to the vehicle for multiple days. Meanwhile, the Stratollite’s payload will weigh about 100 pounds and will mostly just include the chicken sandwich, along with some other unique items such as “the chicken sandwich flying system that keeps the chicken looking good,” according to Taber MacCallum, founder and CTO of World View. A camera will also be on board, and at some point the sandwich will take a selfie.
After this chicken run, World View eventually hopes its Stratollites can provide the same types of services as satellites for a much lower cost, since they don’t have to launch on multimillion-dollar rockets. Poynter thinks they could be particularly helpful for weather research and advanced evacuation warnings. “If you fly a Stratollite over that area, and you fly the radar pointing down at the ground, you get high fidelity ground wind information,” Poynter said back in February. “So you give them hours and hours of warning, so they can really evacuate and get to safety before a tornado comes barreling through the area.”
World View’s ultimate goal is to send people up with these balloons. This tourism venture — called Voyager — would see paying customers gently float to the upper atmosphere for five to six hours, riding inside a fancy cabin with large windows that can overlook the curvature of the planet. All the amenities you could want will be on board, including a bathroom, a bar, and Wi-Fi — for a steep $75,000 a ticket, which you can already reserve online.
But before all that can happen, the chicken has to fly. The KFC sandwich is set to get off the ground sometime toward the end of the month, with the Stratollite’s launch window opening on June 21st. The vehicle will be taking off from a remote site 40 miles outside of Tucson, Arizona and going somewhere between 60,000 and 80,000 feet up. World View even plans to live stream the mission — the first time the company has ever done a live broadcast. (And sent a KFC sandwich to the edge of space.)
"We’re excited to be the ones pushing spicy, crispy chicken sandwich space travel forward,” said KFC president Kevin Hochman said in a statement.
Update June 13th, 1:00PM ET: This article was updated to include additional information from a press conference.

Franklin Robotics, a Massachusetts-based robotics company with a team that includes the inventor of the Roomba, just launched a Kickstarter campaign for its newest robot. This time it’s not a carpet-cleaning or floor-cleaning bot, but one designed to kill the weeds in your garden.
Called Tertill, the round, 2.5-pound bot uses sensors to identify weeds in a vegetable or flower garden. It then uses a spinning string trimmer to cut off weeds near the ground. But it’s not using any fancy cameras or artificial intelligence to identify weeds. Instead, chief technology officer Joe Jones says, it’s relying on cheap capacitive sensors to determine whether the plants it has brushed up against are tall or short.
“The big problem with weeding is, how do you tell the difference between a weed and a plant that you want to keep?” Jones said in an interview with The Verge. “With a garden, you can recognize the difference between weeds and crops based on size. So anything that’s short enough to go under the robot is considered a weed, and anything taller is considered a plant.” What about short plants that you don’t want Tertill to whack? The solution there is a Tertill-resistant collar you can put around new plants until they’ve grown tall.
It’s a relatively low-tech approach to this kind of land-sweeping robot, and it’s unclear at this point how well it will actually work. The Tertill is also solar-powered, and is supposed to run every day, which its creators say will also help keep weeds from thriving.
But Jones said he hopes the bot will grow smarter over time, and, that if it’s a successful product, he plans to add more features. One feature the team has considered adding is a kind of motion sensor-triggered reaction that would cause the bot to move and help scare pests and rodents away. They might also utilize artificial neural networks to make Tertill smarter. “I used to be quite against neural nets,” Jones said over the phone, “but they’ve won me over.”
Tertill costs $199 on Kickstarter right now, and is expected to ship in March 2018. Jones says that it will likely cost around $300 if and when the Tertill goes into full production.
Most recently, Jones and his team were running Harvest Automation, a robotics company focused on moving potted plants around nurseries and greenhouses. Harvest Automation also developed robots designed to work in e-commerce fulfillment centers.
But Jones’ biggest claim to fame is undoubtedly the Roomba, which Jones is credited for inventing. iRobot first started selling the robot vacuum cleaners in 2002, after years of Jones trying to get the bot off the ground (erm, floor). The company has since sold more than 15 million Roombas.
Jones once told New York magazine that the one thing he’s learned about robots is “they always break your heart. One way or another. What you do is try again.”

Election systems across 39 different states showed traces of attacks by Russian hackers after an examination during last year’s election, according to a new report from Bloomberg. In some cases, the attackers even gained access to state-level voter roll data, compromising records on as many as 90,000 voters.
It’s unclear how much of the government was already aware of those efforts. Last week, Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), who attends classified briefings as part of the Senate Intelligence Committee, suggested the full scope of Russian involvement in the election had not yet been revealed. "I don't believe they got into changing actual voting outcomes," Warner said in an interview last week. "But the extent of the attacks is much broader than has been reported so far."
The heart of the compromise seems to have been Illinois, which was compromised in late July 2016. According to Bloomberg’s report, attack signatures from the Illinois attack were detected in 37 other states, including critical election managers in Florida and California. Not each of those signature hits necessarily indicates a compromise, but it suggests a broad, concerted effort to compromise US election systems.
There’s still no evidence that the attacks compromised the vote tallies or election results in any state. The closest the attackers came was voter registration databases, which could, in theory, be altered to strategically erase registrations. But the compromises described by Bloomberg only affected state databases rather than the county-level data that’s used by polling places, and the distributed nature of the US election system seems to have prevented them from reaching further. There’s also no indication that any voting machines were compromised.
Still, any election-related compromise is alarming, and many expressed concern to Bloomberg that the lessons learned in the attack could be used to compromise future elections.
The news comes on the heels of a leaked NSA report, which detailed direct attacks on an election contractor in Florida, as well as various online absentee services. The alleged source of that report, an NSA contractor named Reality Leigh Winner, was arrested on federal charges shortly before the report became public.
Instagram is releasing its Archive feature to all users today, after testing it with a smaller group of people last month.
The feature lets anyone on Instagram hide their old posts without deleting them. If you go into the “...” menu on a photo, where you’d normally see options like edit and delete, there’ll now be an option to archive the image placed right on top. Hitting that button will send the photo to a private gallery — your archive — where only you can see it.
Instagram seems to be hoping that the archive will both stop people from deleting their photos and make people more comfortable with sharing certain photos in the first place. Some of its users — and some teenagers, especially — have a habit of deleting pictures that don’t garner enough likes or that feel too personal later on. The archive won’t necessarily stop that behavior, but it’ll at least keep the pictures around for later viewing.
There’s also a way to send photos from the archive back to your profile, where they’ll appear in their original chronological location. Instagram doesn’t notify others of your archiving and unarchiving habits at all, so you’re able to move things in and out as much as you’d like.
When it hits your account, you’ll be able to access the archive from a little rewind-style button in the top right corner of your profile in the app.
Astro launched in March with the goal of cleaning up your inbox using an AI assistant. It’s an interesting, if not perfectly convenient, way of managing overflowing inboxes that’s meant to make life easier for business users in particular. And today, Astro is getting two new features that push its credentials for business users even further: integrations with Slack and Alexa.
The Slack integration is particularly neat. Once Astro has been linked to Slack, any searches will pull up results from both your inbox and your Slack channels. I suspect this could make things very messy, since Slack searches surface conversations you were never even a part of. But I like the idea of integrating an email client with the service that’s supposed to — and in some cases does — kill email.
You won’t be able to reply to Slack messages directly within Astro, but you will be able to tap on search results to jump straight to the conversation in Slack. And you’ll be able to take emails and embed them in new Slack posts, so that you can move a conversation into Slack. Andy Pflaum, Astro’s co-founder and CEO, demoed the integration for me during a meeting earlier this month, and it all seemed to work pretty naturally.
Astro is also bringing its AI assistant, Astrobot, into Slack itself. It’s another way of combining email and Slack, with the bot pinging you occasionally with items that might need your attention. You’ll be able to respond to emails directly within the chat window, without changing over to Astro itself, which is pretty handy.
Unfortunately, there’s one big hiccup that I encountered while trying to test these integrations in a pre-release version of the app: you need administrative permissions in order to hook into a Slack account, and my company doesn’t grant me that level of access. I suspect a whole lot of people will find themselves in this situation, which means that Astro’s smart new integration won’t get used unless you have a very trusting IT team. Or, as Astro is hoping, a company that chooses to widely adopt its software.
The Alexa integration, on the other hand, should be entirely doable on your own. (Assuming, at least, that you aren’t trying to hijack someone else’s Echo.) Once it’s set up, you’ll be able to ask Alexa to read your recent emails and even respond to them with quick replies. The system can be locked up with a PIN code, so that other people can’t access your inbox just by asking.
Pflaum wouldn’t disclose how many users Astro has gained since its launch a few months back, but he says that the company is “very pleased and confident” so far. He also says that Astro plans to continue adding new integrations, mostly focused on the needs of business users — so think basics like calendars, but also specialized apps like Salesforce CRM. A Windows app is in the works, too; Astro is already on Android, iOS, and macOS.
Everything that’s currently in the app will remain free, but Pflaum says Astro will eventually begin charging people and organizations for “more advanced versions, especially around ways that teams can collaborate and share information.” I suspect Astro and its AI bot will have to get a lot more advanced, proactive, and just generally helpful before big organizations consider paying to use them. But for now, the free version is a unique alternative for anyone in desperate need of help sorting through their inbox.
Microsoft first announced OneDrive Files On-Demand at Build last month, and now Windows 10 testers can try out the feature today. Thurrott.com reports that Windows Insiders on the Fast Ring running Windows 10 build 16215 can now download and install a new OneDrive update, which enables the new Files On-Demand. The new feature allows you to download files as you use them, rather than sync entire folders down to a device and waste space.
It’s almost identical to the placeholders feature OneDrive used to have in Windows 8.1 before it was cut from Windows 10, and Files On-Demand is actually improved with a better status symbol in File Explorer that shows you which files and folders are synced for offline usage. A green checkmark indicates that items are synced to a device, a solid green checkmark shows files you manually sync for offline use, and an empty cloud icon shows that files are in the cloud and not stored on the device. All apps across Windows 10 will be able to access synced OneDrive files in this way as the desktop client stores them directly in the OneDrive folder.
Microsoft is planning to release OneDrive Files On-Demand with its Windows 10 Fall Creators Update later this year, bringing back the placeholders feature that has been sorely missing in Windows 10.
Microsoft’s big reveal this week of the Xbox One X, the high end of its Xbox line and a competitor to Sony's PlayStation 4 Pro, has set the stage for a new conversation about the future of the console industry. This debate isn’t simply about comparing the two devices, deeming one superior, and predicting which will win out. It’s also about the very nature and purpose of a game console in 2017.
We heard a lot about the Xbox One X being “the most powerful console” ever created, and Microsoft dropped frame rate and memory metrics and the phrase “4K” to hammer home the point that it’s built a more capable piece of hardware. But absent from the conversation was Windows 10, arguably Microsoft’s one key advantage that Sony will never be able to replicate.
By not trying to explicitly tie the Xbox to Windows 10, as some rumor watchers predicted the company might try, Microsoft ended up recommitting itself to the idea that PCs and consoles should stay separate — at least for now. In many ways, it feels like Microsoft introduced a stopgap device, indicating that the Xbox’s core identity still remains somewhat in flux as the company figures out how to best merge the idea of a console with that of a PC.
It helps to imagine a starkly different press conference, one in which Microsoft abandoned the idea of a standalone game console as we know it and unveiled a new, unified platform. This theoretical device would have married the best of the PC — upgradability, universal cross-platform play, and premium performance — with the benefits of a console, which lets developers better optimize software around known hardware standards and offers customers plug-and-play accessibility. This new device could have been called the Xbox 10 S, to indicate it runs on the new lightweight Windows 10 S that Microsoft announced back in May.
As my colleague Chris Plante pointed out last week, a console like that would help Microsoft finally realize its dream of an all-in-one entertainment machine — a dream it’s been toying with since Windows Media Center in the early aughts. It would be capable of playing games at the performance level of a gaming PC while also serving as the media hub of the living room. It could incorporate voice and motion control by resurrecting the Kinect and a hands-free digital assistant by tacking on Cortana. It could let you browse the web and download games with optional mice and keyboard input and, best of all, play every possible game regardless of which platform it was primarily developed for.
It would be the dream machine for many: a true living room PC that at last erodes the division between the console space and the Windows ecosystem. Arguments around exclusive titles, developer support, and even price would all be rendered moot if Microsoft could achieve what Valve, with its Steam machine philosophy, couldn’t — all in a package far cheaper than your standard gaming PC. It wouldn’t matter how large Sony’s install base is if Microsoft were able to redefine the entire idea of a game console.
But Microsoft didn’t do any of that. In fact, it followed Sony almost to the tee, save the Xbox One X’s power boost over the PS4 Pro and the requisite $100 higher price tag. The One X is, simply put, a more graphically capable Xbox. It doesn’t run any special software or bridge the console and the PC any better than before. It just plays Xbox One games better than before, so long as you have a 4K TV capable of HDR. (In some cases, Microsoft says the console will deliver performance and resolution benefits even on 1080p sets, thanks to techniques like supersampling). It’s perplexing, because it means Microsoft is yet again competing with cheaper PlayStation hardware while also trying to sell gamers on an experience that remains inferior to a desktop.
There are a few reasons why Microsoft may have felt compelled to take this route, instead of trying (and potentially miserably failing) to make a living room PC. The dream machine I described above sounds fantastic, but it’s also unrealistic.
For one, Microsoft might have trouble convincing gamers to use an Xbox running Windows so long as Steam exists as the primary distribution platform for PC titles. The company could try sidestepping Valve and urging developers to use the Universal Windows App architecture for any and all games in the future. That way, games could be distributed through both Steam and the Windows Store, ensuring they’re playable on every PC and the Xbox One X. However, it’s unlikely Microsoft could convince developers and consumers to abandon Steam or prioritize another platform over it. Big game publishers have tried and failed at that, EA with Origin and Ubisoft with UPlay most prominently.
Another big issue would involve the splitting of its player base. As it stands now, developers will be able to optimize for the Xbox One X if they so choose, but no game will ever be released exclusively for that pricier product. At this point, Microsoft is saying that every Xbox game released from now until the next big generational leap (if one ever comes) will play across the entire Xbox family, and that’s the only way Microsoft and Sony have been able to get away with selling these mid-generation console updates.
Had Microsoft decided to turn Project Scorpio into a Windows machine, it would have risked irreversibly splitting its user base. In that scenario, some games could conceivably be developed to run only on Windows, with developers knowing that Scorpio games could be downloaded via the Windows Store. Going even further, whole feature sets, accessories, and platform perks would have to developed and geared toward the subset of Microsoft customers who buy into the new vision. The idea that, just four years into a console generation, players would feel forced into buying a new device to stay current would likely not sit well, especially not with a community just now forgetting the Xbox One launch debacle of 2013.
The truth is that it seems we’re not quite ready for a do-everything gaming device. The industry is bifurcated between PC and console for a reason: some people want the ease of a TV, couch, and controller, while others are willing to pay extra for performance and more hardware freedom. Not to mention that Microsoft would be effectively bowing out of the console race had it decided to try and change that equation. It appears much safer for the company to steadily build its bridge — with cross play, “play anywhere,” and the Windows 10 Xbox app — rather than take a radical jump off the cliff.
The silver lining here is that it’s clear where Microsoft is headed. Xbox chief Phil Spencer sits on the Windows 10 board for a reason. Every year at the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco, the company makes an effort to show just how much work it’s putting into joining its console with its pervasive desktop OS. So it’s only a matter of time before Microsoft makes the leap and the division between console and a computer falls away.
Maybe it will happen with the next generational leap. The Xbox Two, or whatever silly name Microsoft ends up tacking on, could be the true living room PC we’ve all been waiting for. It could perhaps even be modular and upgradable, ending the need for generational console updates for good. But that’s years away. Right now, we have to settle for faster GPUs and more teraflops packed into the same familiar boxes. It’s far from a dream machine, but it’s good enough for now.

You learn a lot about movie protagonists from the first choice they make in a story. Films have to convey most of their characterization through dialogue and action, and the early choices are the ones that define a character’s identity. Consider the first decisions made by Nick Morton, Tom Cruise’s hapless antihero character in the misbegotten Universal Studios franchise-launcher The Mummy. The movie starts with him going AWOL from the Army to loot an ancient tomb. He nearly gets himself and a buddy killed with his lack of planning and basic observational skills. Out of sheer impatience, he deliberately vandalizes the protections around an ancient sarcophagus. And in the process, he unleashes the monstrous undead princess Ahmanet (Sofia Boutella), kicking the plot into motion. Before the first act is over, he’s established himself as a reckless, greedy, amoral ass.
Nick has a redemption arc coming, so this setup gives him plenty of room for character improvement. But the script doesn’t do much to justify or underline that arc, beyond throwing in one line about the good man inside him, “fighting to get out.” His ultimate act of altruism is muddled by sloppy storytelling, and the lead-up is vague and lazy. His character is only really convincing — and entertaining — in the early going, when he’s an unalloyed bastard. And the story so clearly leads in a direction where that bastardry could have been fully realized, in a way that would have given the film some real narrative power. Both as a standalone film and as a platform for Universal Studios’ planned Dark Universe series of monster movies, The Mummy would have been more effective if it had fully embraced that introductory scene, and let Nick Morton become the story’s villain.
Nick certainly has the opportunity to choose Team Evil. When he awakens Ahmanet, she identifies him as her “chosen one,” and sets out to sacrifice him with a magical dagger to incarnate the Egyptian god Set into his body. She tells Nick this will make him immortal and all-powerful, so they can be together forever. He isn’t down for this plan, with good reason — Ahmanet initially doesn’t offer him a choice, and he justifiably doesn’t trust an angry mummy trying to slice him open. He also doesn’t believe in the supernatural, until Ahmanet takes up psychic residence in his skull. It takes him some time to come to terms with what’s happening to him, and that time is mostly spent running from reanimated corpses and learning about the secret monster-fighting organization Prodigium.
But over time, Ahmanet’s offer starts to look better. She’s seductive, powerful, and entirely focused on elevating Nick to godhood. Prodigium, on the other hand, is a cold and merciless organization that plans to execute Nick because they can’t break his magical ties to Ahmanet. Prodigium representative Dr. Jekyll (Russell Crowe) is utterly unsympathetic about Nick’s situation — as he should be, since Nick brought it on himself through careless, selfish greed. But given the choice between ignominious death at Jekyll’s hands in a souvenir-packed warehouse somewhere, and a symbolic death that gives him ultimate power, Nick’s choice should be fairly clear.
Nick’s lust for wealth, his well-established tendency to charge wildly forward instead of thinking things through, and his blatant amorality all amount to a perfect setup for a twist where he does embrace Ahmanet’s plan, and chooses to become a god. His sympathy for Ahmanet is well-established in the movie, and so is his distrust for Prodigium, which tortures her and plans to vivisect her. His only emotional tie to the organization is through member Jenny Halsey (Annabelle Wallis), who’s set up as his love interest. And yet ultimately, he selflessly stabs himself with the magic dagger in order to get Set’s power — solely so he can save Jenny’s life.
None of this action is particularly well foreshadowed or choreographed. Nick’s relationship with Jenny mostly consists of her scolding him, including informing his Army buddies that he’s a lousy lay and a premature ejaculator. Before the film even starts, Nick hooks up with Jenny, apparently so he can steal her map to Ahmanet’s tomb while she sleeps. (Again, he’s a bastard.) But the writers take it for granted that his abrupt third-act feelings for her will read as sincere and life-affirming, and his sudden choice to die for her sake will come across as an honest moment of redemption. It doesn’t, both because their on-screen relationship is so thin, and because his selfish aspects are so much better established than his altruistic ones.
And it doesn’t help that the film ends with a fuzzy, hand-waving monologue about Nick’s status. Nick clearly ended up with at least some of Set’s power, but isn’t fully a god — maybe because Ahmanet didn’t do her full sacrificial ritual? Or because he chose selflessly? Or because he shrugs off the will of an immortal god by thinking good-guy thoughts? It’s manifestly unclear, and so are his future intentions. An ending voiceover from Jekyll and Jenny suggests he’s become some kind of wandering hero who might show up to save their bacon later in the franchise, but the writers leave it all undefined and unsatisfying. Presumably it’s a dangling hook for later films in the series, but with no idea what Nick can do or who he’s become, the promise of his return isn’t particularly exciting.
But consider how the story could have gone if the avaricious, rash, self-absorbed rogue of the opening scenes actually chose to throw in with the beautiful immortal who’s offering him godhood. Impulsively choosing eternal life and boundless power would be more in keeping with Nick’s established character. It’d be more in keeping with what he’s seen of his available options. And it’d be more appropriate to the film’s themes, which suggest that power corrupts, and that the world is defined by the eternal struggle between humanity and the monsters lurking around its edges. It’d even fit with the plot of the 1932 version of The Mummy, the one Universal is drawing on here — in that film, the mummy’s chosen consort does voluntarily join him for power, immortality, and love, and only reneges on the deal when she gets frightened by the grotesque mechanics of the death she’ll have to endure to claim her godhood.
Besides, if Nick consciously chose to embrace evil, and become The Mummy’s ultimate villain, that would be a stronger, sharper ending for a film that goes soft and sentimental in its final act. Any time Cruise steps away from his squeaky-clean screen image, it comes as a surprise, and has a significant impact on longtime moviegoers. His creepiest characters (as a contract killer in Collateral, say, or a screaming blowhard boss in Tropic Thunder, or the creepy motivational speaker in Magnolia) always draw significant attention and interest. A full-blown Cruise villain would have established the Dark Universe as a series to watch for daring, unpredictable choices.
Heroic sacrifices of the type seen here, on the other hand, are so common in films that The Mummy’s screenwriters apparently didn’t feel they needed to justify this one. It’s taken as a matter of course that Nick’s noble side will beat his greedy side, so the script barely bothers to set up any sense of internal conflict for him, or to build a compelling relationship between him and Jenny. Given that she’s hardly even a character, the film never feels like it has emotional or personal stakes on the level necessary to build emotional impact around her survival.
But if she and Prodigium had to face a reincarnated god together — especially a reincarnated god they had multiple opportunities to stop earlier — those stakes would suddenly seem intense and personal. And the ensuing battle might give Prodigium time to redeem and recenter itself, which it desperately needs if the Dark Universe is meant to draw on the group again. Since The Mummy is more about Nick than Prodigium, the organization doesn’t come across as a compelling element that can wind through many films. It looks incompetent and disorganized, a sloppy containment system led by a part-time madman who can’t even reliably contain himself. The group has one job in this film — restraining a dangerous mummy — and it fails badly. Rallying the group to fight Set / Nick at the end of the film would have put the focus back on what the group does well, and show why its adventures through other Dark Universe films might be worth watching.
A climactic face-off between Set / Nick and Jenny would also be a fitting conclusion for the fights she’s been having with him through the entire film, where she represents research, knowledge, and attention to detail, and he represents the forces of self-serving chaos. If she and Jekyll had been given the chance to step up in the final battle, they might have been able to establish themselves as ongoing heroes, worth a franchise’s attention. Instead, Jekyll largely disappears and Jenny becomes a damsel in distress, gasping for rescue again and again. The film ends with only one real hero left — Nick, sort of, since it’s now so unclear what he is or what he wants — and without any statement of purpose for Prodigium or the franchise to come.
And finally, if Jekyll, Jenny, and the forces of Prodigium weren’t initially able to destroy Nick — if they faced down Ahmanet, but couldn’t contain her more powerful consort — Universal Studios’ Dark Universe franchise might have the ongoing villain it needs more than anything. One of the greatest flaws of modern superhero movies is their tendency to kill off their villains at the end of the story, robbing franchises of the chance to build ongoing rivalries between heroes and their nemeses. Loki in the Marvel Cinematic Universe has become a fan-favorite character for a number of reasons: Tom Hiddleston and the writers behind him have made the character funny, scary, and sexy, with a compelling arrogance and impressive powers. But he also draws fans because he’s lasted long enough to become a complicated character, with his own redemption arc, and his own well-established internal struggles. That kind of longevity and depth are incredibly, frustratingly rare for villains in franchise films. The Mummy had the chance to embrace it, and instead discarded it.
The good news is, it’s not necessarily too late for any of this. Nick’s link with Set is so poorly explained at the end of The Mummy that his character could potentially go anywhere. Prodigium still needs redemption. The Dark Universe still needs a meaningful throughline, assuming The Mummy’s dramatic box office failure doesn’t torpedo the entire series. There’s certainly the question of whether Cruise would want to return to a franchise that’s been heavily critically panned and rejected by audiences in its maiden voyage. And Cruise’s preference for playing rakish, overmatched, but enduring good guys is well-established; he might veto any plot that takes him in a dark direction. So it’s possible the Dark Universe might not get him back at all, let alone for an out-of-character villain turn. But if Cruise declines a second Dark Universe outing, a monstrous god-Nick would certainly be easier to create with special effects than a heroic human Nick.
But the bad news is, it’s too late for The Mummy itself. A story that might have been about different ways of approaching the darkness is instead a half-hearted story about an antihero more or less accidentally finding his better nature. An attempt to set up a world-spanning fight against evil is instead a story about an organization so badly managed that one mind-controlling spider can take it apart. And what was meant as a triumphant reclamation of a film studio’s history has turned into a giant question mark about whether the whole endeavor is worth the effort. As a hero, Cruise can’t save the day in this case. As the villain, he might have managed it.
Now that Ctrl-Walt-Delete has ended, The Verge is down to only one podcast. To search for our next show, we joined Anchor, an app for recording short-form audio segments.  We are now experimenting original audio stories, interviews, columns, soundscapes, and whatever else makes noise.
Check it out at anchor.fm/verge and favorite our channel, give us some applause, share our segments, and even call in.
You can also add Anchor to your Amazon Echo by saying “Alexa, enable the Anchor skill.”
We would also love to know what you would like to hear on the channel! We’re using Anchor to experiment with formats for full-length podcasts and short-form audio, so we’re depending on your feedback.


Razer is branching out its line of gaming headsets to consoles with its new Thresher Ultimate headphones for the Xbox One and PlayStation 4.
The Thresher Ultimate come in separate versions for Microsoft’s and Sony’s consoles, with the PS4 version featuring blue highlights while the Xbox model is decked out in green. Both connect over 2.4GHz wireless, instead of Bluetooth, and offer a range of about 150 feet with direct line of site or around 60 to 70 feet if there are obstructions in the way. Either way, you’re probably good for getting sound from your couch, unless you’ve got a really large living room.
From a design perspective, Razer put a focus on comfort. The Thresher Ultimate feature a double headband design, allowing the headphones to offer both a durable aluminum band as well as a softer padded cushion. And in a nice touch, the ear cushions have indentations to make them more comfortable for users with glasses, in a first for Razer’s over-ear headphones.
Like Razer’s Man O’ War headphones, the Thresher Ultimate feature a retractable microphone for when you’d like to communicate / trash talk during online play, and the headphones offer both volume and microphone controllers directly on the bottom of the ear cups.
The Thresher Ultimate headphones will cost $250 when they ship later in June.
John Mulaney and Nick Kroll’s Oh, Hello on Broadway, a two-man show that was once on Broadway, is now available to stream on Netflix.
The show originated Off-Broadway in December 2015, then moved to a road tour, and eventually Broadway’s Lyceum Theater, where it received positive critical attention and ran from October 2016 to January 2017. The characters originally became popular as a Comedy Central bit called “Too Much Tuna,” which was a recurring feature on The Kroll Show. The Oh, Hello guys also grew in popularity following an appearance on the IFC show Comedy Bang! Bang! with The Lonely Island.
Both Mulaney and Kroll have debuted solo standup specials on the platform in the past, and they’re working together on the animated Netflix series Big Mouth, due out later this year. This special, recorded at New York’s 92nd Street Y, is directed by Michael John Warren, who is best known for music documentaries about Jay Z, Nicki Minaj, Drake, and others, as well as a handful of live Broadway recordings including Shrek the Musical and the 2008 revival of Rent.
"Oh Hello on Broadway" is now on Netflix. Its a full Broadway play with special guest @SteveMartinToGo. Its great. pic.twitter.com/nZPf9EAtuD
In Oh, Hello, Mulaney plays George St. Geegland and Kroll plays Gil Faizon, a pair of rude, elderly friends who met while dodging the Vietnam draft in Toronto. I haven’t seen it but I believe there are some catch phrases, such as “too much tuna.”
Anyway, you can stream it now!
Microsoft’s new Windows 10 S operating system is designed to just run Windows Store apps, but that’s probably going to be a problem for most Windows users. If you’ve just purchased a Surface Laptop, or you’re considering a range of Windows 10 S computers, then it’s simple to upgrade to the full Windows 10 Pro version. The upgrade will be free until the end of the year for any Windows 10 S computer priced at $799 or above, and for schools and accessibility users. If you don’t fit into that criteria then it’s a $49 upgrade fee, processed through the Windows Store. Here’s how to upgrade from Windows 10 S to Windows 10 Pro.
When you first download an app outside the Windows Store and attempt to install it on a Windows 10 S PC you’ll see a dialogue box that explains the restricted OS, and offers you a way out. Microsoft plans to customize this per app in the future, and in cases where the desktop app is actually listed in the Windows Store it will offer the opportunity to download the app from there. Right now, the only difference you’ll see between the dialogue boxes is if you attempt to install another browser as Microsoft tempts you back to its Edge browser instead.
At the bottom of the dialogue box, follow the “see how” link where it says “Still want to install apps from outside the Store?” This link will open the Windows Store to a new page that offers to switch to Windows 10 Pro, and offers a comparison between 10 S and 10 Pro. If you need to pay the $49 fee you can proceed, otherwise you’ll see a free upgrade button. Be warned: this switch process is irreversible, so once you’ve upgraded to Windows 10 Pro you can’t switch back to Windows 10 S, even if you reset the PC. You can also enter your own Windows 10 Pro key manually if you want to avoid the $49 fee, or simply proceed by clicking the upgrade button.
Windows 10 will then ask if you’ve saved all your files, and then prepare to switch the PC over to Windows 10 Pro. This switch takes less than a minute and then the system will reboot and you’ll be immediately converted to Windows 10 Pro. All apps and settings will remain, and a notification will inform you the switch has been successful. At this point you can proceed to install regular Windows desktop apps from outside the Windows Store just like any other regular Windows 10 PC.
On Friday, June 9th, Walt and Nilay recorded the final episode of Ctrl-Walt-Delete live in front of an audience at the School of Visual Arts theatre in New York City. They also had a frequently mentioned special guest on the show, Dieter Bohn.
And, by popular demand, we recorded the show for those of you who couldn’t make it.
This is the episode you’ve been waiting for. After a two-week break for Code Conference and Apple’s Worldwide Developers Conference, Walt gave us his takeaways from the interviews at Code and the new products announced from Apple. Nilay and Dieter join Walt in speculating what’s next for their world of consumer tech and tech journalism, with a live Q&A as well.
I’d like to take this moment to thank everyone who listened to any episode of the show, those who subscribed, those who read and commented on these posts, those who went to our live shows, and those who sent us feedback, insight, and intros for the show. This podcast became a success because of all of our listeners, and we greatly appreciate it.
Stay tuned for more podcasts and audio projects from The Verge.
And as always, we still love your feedback on topics for shows and suggestions on how to make our podcasts better and more fun. Let us know what you want to hear next! You can tweet me at @andrumarino and Nilay at @reckless. And, of course, we’d like it if you subscribed to The Verge's other podcasts The Vergecast and Verge Extras.
And hey, you still have time to get a Ctrl-Walt-Delete T-shirt! Check out our merch store here.
See you in the future.
Microsoft’s press conference at this year’s E3 was always going to be the early highlight of the show. Going in, we knew the company was planning on unveiling the final consumer version of Project Scorpio alongside a slate of new games and other announcements. Right away, Microsoft gave us a name, Xbox One X, alongside pricing ($499) and a release date (November 7th).
That alone was enough to satisfy a torrent of news headlines and first reactions, and Microsoft followed it up by packing quite a bit of news into its two-hour presentation. Some of it bodes well for the Xbox’s ongoing comeback, while other announcements seem to further put the platform at risk as it struggles to keep pace with Sony and the more successful PlayStation 4 consoles. It’s far too early to declare which company “won” E3 this year. But we can certainly break down Microsoft’s biggest announcements by whether they help or hurt its platform. Let’s start with the positives.
Microsoft was quick to point out that the Xbox One X will be the world’s “most powerful game console.” The company isn’t exaggerating. Packing a 6-teraflop GPU and 12GB of GDDR5 RAM, Microsoft has bested Sony in the hardware department in a big way.
The company claims that Xbox games will now be able to take advantage of HDR lighting effects and native 4K resolution along with a slew of other performance upgrades that aren’t dependent on your TV hardware, like higher frame rates and supersampling for 1080p TVs. Only tentpole first-party releases, like Forza Motorsport 7, will likely be optimized for native 4K at 60 fps, but Microsoft says any developer that wants to take advantage of the extra firepower in the Xbox One X will able to do so either prior to their game’s launch or with a post-launch patch.
Some players may not be able to tell the difference between a game running on the Xbox One X versus the PS4 Pro. But for the first time in years, Microsoft is able to flip the script on Sony, which arguably took its early and continued lead in the console market by beating the Xbox One on both price and graphical performance.
This is a big deal for consumers who want only the best and don’t care that much about how much it costs or the fact that you’ll need a 4K TV to make the most of the visual experience. Microsoft seems hopeful that being able to tout its hardware as the best in the industry will be enough to win over an important and influential contingent of consumers.
After a roughly two-year quiet period, Crackdown 3 got spotlighted during Microsoft’s E3 press conference with a gameplay trailer and a release date. The game, due out on November 7th, will feature the same set of genetically enhanced supersoldiers policing a futuristic city of criminals. Plus, former NFL player and all-around likeable and amped up internet personality Terry Crews was also trotted out in the video to promote the game and lend his signature voice acting skills.
Sure, we don’t know whether any of Crackdown 3’s original promises of total city destruction will hold true. Microsoft has already confirmed that the game’s single-player mode won’t feature the seemingly revolutionary destructible environments that cloud computing platform Azure is supposed to provide. But it’s refreshing to see the game resurface at long last, and with the wildly fun and absurd heart of the Crackdown series seemingly intact.
Backwards compatibility is Microsoft’s go-to gotcha card when it wants to gin up support with fans and really stick it to the Sony diehards. Because the PS4 is incapable of playing older games with software emulation — and Sony doesn’t want to invest like Microsoft has — the Xbox platform is the best way to play games from back in the day like Skate 3 and Red Dead Redemption.
At its E3 press conference, Microsoft took another victory lap in the backwards compatibility department by announcing support for some original Xbox games. The company didn’t tease a ton of titles — in fact, it just showed arcade flight game Crimson Skies — but we can assume there will be other big-name exclusive Xbox titles coming back from the dead. Personally, games like Fable, Elder, Scrolls III: Morrowind, and Psychonauts would be enough to sell me on the feature.
E3 is supposed to be the one time of the year that game companies pull out all the stops to convince consumers that the next year will be loaded with flashy blockbusters. For Microsoft Studios, the company’s in-house game development arm, that has traditionally meant announcing exclusive games that are supposed to make the Xbox a more enticing platform, especially in the face of an increasingly formidable lineup of PlayStation-only titles in recent months.
As far as new big budget announcements, all fans received during yesterday’s press conference was an official reveal of Forza Motorsport 7, a game pretty much everyone knew was coming. Microsoft didn’t tease the next Halo, which could have been an easy win. This isn’t to say Microsoft arrived empty handed. The company championed multi-platform titles like Anthem; first-party games we already knew were coming, like Crackdown 3; and a whole suite of mid-budget and indie games, including Cuphead and Tacoma.
Microsoft wanted to focus on the variety of games it has to offer. It did, except the big, bold exclusives felt noticeable absent. That’s not a great look if Microsoft wants to chip away at Sony’s lead.
The Xbox One X may be Microsoft’s ticket to winning back the enthusiast market it lost when it fumbled its original launch in 2013. But the tricky truth is that resolution and frame rate metrics (and even a 4K UHD Blu-ray player) aren’t enough to sell a majority of consumers on a pricier console. To those not steeped in rain drop physics and dynamic lighting effects, 4K doesn’t mean all that much, especially when you don’t have a proper TV. Even Sony has had trouble justifying the existence of its $100 cheaper PS4 Pro, given how inconsistent the lineup of supported software titles is six months post-launch.
In a way, the launch of the Xbox One X at $499 puts Microsoft right back in its original predicament of offering a new home console and charging more than its primary competitor, all for features the mainstream gaming community may not want, at least right now. Of course, better graphics and performance sounds, on paper, far more valuable that the Kinect was back in 2013, when it was bundled with the original Xbox One. Yet Microsoft has handed Sony a potential victory: a console priced higher than the PS4 Pro. Price was arguably what set the Xbox One back at launch, and there’s a real chance it will do the same again with Xbox One X.
Eero kicked off an arms race of router innovation when it launched the first mesh Wi-Fi system last year. It seems like everyone is making mesh Wi-Fi systems now: Google has one. Samsung has one. There are new mesh startups like Plume and Lumo. Established players like Netgear and Linksys are in the game, one-upping each other with specs and features because one-upping each other with specs and features is their fundamental purpose on this planet.
But Eero is still the standout — a modern hardware startup that arrived with such a fundamentally good idea about how to reinvent an unloved product that it kicked off a wave of change. Eero is out today with updated products that introduce a new wireless standard for smart homes and a new $10-per-month Eero Plus service that adds network security monitoring and improved parental controls. The new base Eero system is now a $299 two-device bundle of a second-gen Eero base station and a new smaller Eero Beacon. Systems range up to a $499 Eero Pro package of three base stations. Combined, it all forms the beginnings of what Eero calls an “operating system for the home.”
But hold up: one of the biggest stories in tech is that very few promising startups get big before being swallowed by what Walt Mossberg has called “the oligarchy”: Apple, Google, Microsoft, Amazon, and Facebook. Other standout companies with similar ambitions to rethink the home have all been gobbled and hobbled over the past few years: Nest and Dropcam were acquired by Google, while Samsung snagged SmartThings. And Eero’s all-white design, set-it-and-forget-it simplicity, and consumer-friendly marketing have certainly led a few people to suggest that Apple should eventually snap it up.
All of this adds up to a very hard question: can Eero succeed in creating a new kind of ecosystem while facing down waves of competition and the inevitable pull to sell out?
Eero announced itself in 2015 after CEO Nick Weaver spent time working at Menlo Ventures investing in companies like Dropcam and Roku. Both companies struggled with bad connectivity in the home. “It drove a lot of their customer complaints,” says Weaver. “So we kept looking for an investment [in Wi-Fi], and couldn’t find it.”
Weaver left Menlo and started Eero with two co-founders in late 2014. The first office was his living room. Hardware and software development took two years, marked by  lengthy delays for preorder customers and investments by First Round, Menlo, and Andy Rubin’s Playground Global, among others. The first Eero units shipped in early 2016, and received enthusiastic reviews.
Weaver makes it a point to highlight the technical breakthroughs behind Eero.
“We’re making the radios do things they aren’t designed to do,” says Weaver. The first-gen Eeros have a pair of Qualcomm Wi-Fi radios used by several other companies, but Eero built custom drivers for them. “Most of these radios are designed to make one connection. When an Eero comes up it’s forming links between as many other Eeros as possible.”
Other mesh Wi-Fi systems like Netgear’s Orbi system have a third radio that’s dedicated to a backhaul connection between base stations, and in reviews and tests they’ve been consistently faster than the first-gen Eero. The new second-gen Eeros have three radios, but the smaller Beacon extenders are still dual-band, and Weaver insists that being able to move client and backhaul traffic around each radio at will is ultimately a more powerful approach.
“When you reserve one radio for just mesh that means you aren’t writing great software,” he says. “We’re the only product on the market that can scale out to any number of devices.” Cheekily, when the company released a major software update with new radio driver code, it renamed its system TrueMesh to highlight the difference.
Every Eero network connects up to Eero’s cloud service, which constantly gathers data about how the systems are performing and what devices are on the network in order to optimize performance. “Every time Apple or Xbox or Sonos pushes a software update it slightly changes how the devices work and interact with the network,” says Weaver. “We're constantly looking at how quickly devices get IP addresses, how well they roam, all these things that change. And we use software updates as a way of improving device performance — we've done a bunch of stuff to make sure, say, Sonos works properly with Eero. Basically, we're running the world's largest interoperability study.”
Being responsible for every connection in customers’ homes was initially much more pressure than the company realized, Weaver says. “Devices like smart thermostats and speakers are crashing and restarting more frequently than you think. Most of time you don’t notice, because you’re not using them. But when you’re supposed to be rock-solid infrastructure, that’s a huge amount of responsibility. We ended up revamping a lot of the core algorithms and core tech for how Eeros communicate with each other.”
Eero says it’s pushed more than 30 software updates since the product launched last year. That’s a furious rate of change for any hardware product, let alone a Wi-Fi router, which most people never update even once.
Weaver tells me Eero has no plans to look at network data beyond performance. “We don’t collect data about where you go on the internet — that’s not interesting,” he says. “We sell a premium product, and soon a service. We’re not running ads, and we’re not doing any commerce. The data is just so we can rapidly improve the software.”
Weaver says the $10 / month or $100 / year Eero Plus service will get features added to it over time, comparing it to Amazon Prime. It’ll roll out with more robust parental controls and network security that blocks malicious websites and protects against botnets. “We’ve fingerprinted 5 to 10 million devices at this point,” says Weaver. “We're getting really good at understanding which devices are behaving normally and which ones are behaving abnormally.” Misbehaving devices will get flagged, and users will get regular security reports.
All of that is nice, but the competing Luma mesh Wi-Fi system offers both parental controls and network monitoring for free. The Google Wifi mesh system has cheaper per-base hardware costs, and it’s not like Google can’t find reasons to start aggressively collecting network data to build services around it.
Ultimately Eero’s going to need to pump up the value equation of Eero Plus by adding more features to justify the monthly service fee. And that could go a lot of ways, from additional privacy services like built-in VPNs and anonymous browsing to bigger ideas like opening up space for third-party apps to run on Eero networks, which Weaver says “would be pretty interesting.”
The new Eeros also support the Thread wireless standard, which may or may not be a huge deal in the future. Thread is a long, long story. It’s a low-power wireless standard designed for smart home devices like locks and light switches that claims to fix the complexity of Bluetooth and weirdness of older standards like Z-Wave. It was originally developed by Nest, and somewhat lost inside the drama that unfolded with Nest’s acquisition by Google and subsequent acquisition of Dropcam. Google shipped a Thread-compatible chip in the Google OnHub router, but it was never enabled, and there’s no Thread hardware in the newer Google Wifi mesh networking system. And there aren’t any fully Thread-compatible smart home devices out there that I’m aware of.
But Thread is also a mesh networking system, and having Eero also connect to lower-power devices like sensors and light switches means that you don’t need unsightly and complicated hubs between your smart home gadgets and your network. “There’s a really healthy pipeline of [Thread] devices that have been ready for a long time,” says Weaver. “Everyone has been waiting for a Thread border router so they don’t have to do a $50 loss leader hub with every product they ship.”
“Others have made this promise and it never came to fruition,” he adds. “Thread runs in the 2.4GHz spectrum like Wi-Fi, and there’s a lot of coexistence work you have to do to make sure you can maintain a 2.4GHz connection to a Wi-Fi device while maintaining connectivity to a Thread device.” Client devices like phones can manage having both Bluetooth and Wi-Fi in the 2.4GHz spectrum by rapidly turning those radios on and off in millisecond bursts, but that’s not a workable solution for a router, which has to handle multiple Wi-Fi connections at once.
Basically, Weaver says Eero has been able to figure out how to do something no one else has ever figured out how to do with Thread. Not Nest, which invented Thread but failed to ship a rumored Thread hub codenamed Flintstone for years, and not Google, which stuck a Thread chip in its OnHub Wi-Fi router but never enabled it. The newer Google Wifi mesh system doesn’t have Thread support at all.
“The reason [the OnHub chips] haven’t been turned on is coexistence,” says Weaver. “That’s not something you can just do in software. You have to do it in hardware.”
Existing Eero customers can add Thread support to their networks by adding or swapping in a second-gen Eero or Beacon unit. And Weaver says a wave of marketing will come when there are a few Thread devices on the market. If it all works, you’ll be able to add smart home components to your network as easily as any other Wi-Fi device — and Eero will have the simplest solution for making sure all those connections are stable and optimized.
There’s also a huge marketing push coming alongside the new Eero products, with big displays in Best Buy, a major ad campaign, and retail availability in Walmart and Target. But while Eero certainly has the mindshare and attention of the industry, it still has a long way to go in terms of sales. The company won’t give me exact sales numbers, but Weaver says he’ll call me when there are a million homes with Eero systems in them.
So: a hot VC-backed hardware startup solving thorny technical problems with a cool product customers love that’s just about to take the next step in terms of sales and marketing. I keep asking: can Eero go it alone, or will it inevitably sell out to the giants like so many other companies?
“No,” says Weaver. “We’re trying to build a real standalone company here.”
“There is not one single home that has all Apple devices or all Google devices or all Amazon devices,” he adds. “We have an opportunity to be an unbiased piece of infrastructure that runs every part of connectivity in every part of the home that's not tied to one specific ecosystem. That's a huge opportunity.”
I bring up Nest, which sold to Google for $3.2 billion but then stagnated before releasing a new camera last month. Would that kind of offer do it? “That was probably one of the most spectacular technology M&A outcomes we've ever seen,” says Weaver. “You get to a situation like that and you've got a responsibility to your board and your shareholders to evaluate offers.” He brings up Instagram, which continues to be innovative and beloved by consumers after being acquired by Facebook.
But a couple days later, when I ask yet again, Weaver makes it clear that his preferred outcome is to stay independent. And as Eero grows, its ranks swell with employees leaving the giants — including several who previously worked on the once-revolutionary AirPort Wi-Fi product line at Apple.
“When you’re a company at our stage, you’ve got one or two products you’re working on, and the ones that you’re working on, you ship,” says Weaver. “When you get to these bigger companies, there’s tons of products you’re working on, and very few of them ship.”
So can Eero actually build the ecosystem on top of your home network it’s dreaming of, while fending off fierce competition and the inevitable promise of a check from the giants? We’ll see. But there’s something great about a smaller company totally focused on its own concise product line without the politics and platform lock-in games of the giants.
“Every single device that matters in the home is going to be connected to the internet and every piece of content we consume in the home is going to be delivered over the internet,” says Weaver. “The opportunity here is to build a lasting brand at home.”
Eero is back: a little over a year after kickstarting the home mesh networking trend, the company is announcing its second-generation hardware. According to the company, the new Eero provides double the speed and range of its predecessor, yet has the same footprint and form factor as before. The second-generation Eero is also the first product on the market with fully functioning Thread support, so it will be able to connect to a variety of smart home devices expected to arrive in the near future.
In addition to the new, faster, and more powerful hub, Eero is also releasing a smaller product called the Beacon. It is designed to extend the range and coverage of your Wi-Fi network just like the other hubs, but it has an even smaller size and plugs directly into a wall outlet. Starting today, you can order an Eero kit with one Eero hub and one Beacon for $299; $100 more gets you the hub and two Beacons. A “Pro” system is also available for $499, which includes three Eero hubs. All kits are expected to start shipping in a few weeks.
New hardware isn’t the only thing from Eero today — the company is also launching a new subscription service called Eero Plus. The service, which costs $9.99 per month or $99 per year, provides enhanced parental controls; a security service that Eero says will protect your network and devices from malware, ransomware, and phishing attacks; and priority access to Eero’s customer support. CEO Nick Weaver describes the services as “similar to Amazon Prime,” and says the company will add more features to it without raising the cost in the future.
Ever since Eero launched its first mesh router, the market has been flooded with similar ideas and systems. Incumbents like Netgear, Linksys, and TP-Link have all released mesh home router systems, and even Google and Samsung are in the router game now. All of the systems basically do the same thing: provide strong Wi-Fi coverage throughout your home by using multiple nodes, or router units, that are wirelessly linked together.
Eero’s first-generation product delivered on its claims, and we found it to be quite the solution to troublesome home networking problems when we tested it. But the other systems that have come out since have either provided even faster speeds and stronger coverage, more services, or delivered a similar experience at a lower price.
With its new hardware and service plans, Eero hopes to close the gap and even surpass its competition. The new hub has a tri-band radio and can broadcast on three wireless bands at the same time (the first-gen model had a dual-band radio), and Eero says it is the smallest access point on the market with such a capability. Unlike the Netgear Orbi or Linksys Velop, Eero does not reserve one of the three bands just for communication between the units; Weaver says any one of the three bands can be used for sending data to devices or for communication between the nodes, depending on what the network demands are.
The Beacon is not as powerful as the new hub and does not have a tri-band radio, but Eero claims it provides 20 to 30 percent better performance than the first-generation Eero. It is half the size of the hub and is designed to placed in areas where power cords are unsightly or unable to be used, such as in stairwells, kitchens, and hallways. The Beacon also includes a downward-shining LED nightlight, which can be automatically controlled by the device’s ambient light sensor or with a manual schedule set in the Eero app. Both the new hub and the Beacon are backwards compatible with existing Eero systems, so current customers can add new hubs or Beacons to their networks as they see necessary.
Including Thread radio support is a bit of a bet on the future of smart home tech by Eero. Thread has been around as a smart home protocol for a few years, and a number of existing routers, such as Google’s OnHub line, have dormant Thread radios in them that have not yet been put to use. Thread is said to be simpler and easier to deploy than competing standards ZigBee and Z-Wave, but there aren’t yet any devices on the market that can make use of it. Weaver says that will change now that the new Eero comes with an active Thread radio: finally there will be a hub for Thread devices to connect to. These devices will likely include smart home staples such as lights, locks, and doorbells, and Weaver says the idea is you won’t have to use a secondary hub like SmartThings to connect your smart home devices.
The home router market is wildly different in 2017 than it was two years ago when Eero first broke cover, but Weaver says Eero is well-positioned to be a neutral party for your home network. While other companies, such as Google and Samsung, sell other devices that connect to Wi-Fi networks and may have different priorities based on those businesses, Eero is only focused on networking and doesn’t put any device ahead of another — whether it’s from Apple, Google, Amazon, Samsung, or another company.
Eero’s new products catch it up to the technical capabilities of the other mesh router systems without making them more complex or difficult to use than its earlier efforts. Given how popular its first products were, the new Eero devices should prove to be even more so.
At last year’s E3, Nintendo put most of its focus on The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, dedicating the majority of its booth to the sprawling open-world adventure. Expect a similar focus this year, but on a much different game: Super Mario Odyssey.
Mario’s next big game is expected to launch this year, and will be the biggest — and most important — release for the Nintendo Switch after Breath of the Wild. Expect to get a much more in-depth look at Odyssey’s new open-world gameplay, which looks to build off the genre-defining Super Mario 64.
Outside of Super Mario, you’re likely to see and hear about other notable upcoming Switch games, including Splatoon 2, Xenoblade Chronicles 2, and that strange crossover Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle. Hopefully we’ll also learn about the Switch’s recently-delayed online service, as well as just what’s going on with the Virtual Console.
And then there’s the 3DS. While much of the focus will be on Switch, expect to hear about at least a few new titles coming to Nintendo’s dedicated handheld. That’s likely to include the just-announced Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, as well as other surprise games. As for wildcards, there’s a small chance Nintendo will talk mobile games as well. A smartphone version of Animal Crossing is expected this year, while a mobile adaptation of Zelda is also rumored to be in the works.
As per usual, Nintendo won’t have an actual press conference at E3, but will instead announce news on a livestream on June 13th. The keynote will be followed by additional streams showcasing the company’s lineup of games, as well as competitive tournaments for games like Splatoon and Arms.
Here’s how to check it out:
Starting time: San Francisco: 9AM / New York: 12PM / London: 5PM / Berlin: 6PM / Moscow: 7PM / Beijing: 12AM (June 14th) / Tokyo: 1AM (June 14th) / Sydney: 2AM (June 14th).
Keynote live stream: Nintendo will be streaming the event directly on its site, as well as on both Twitch and YouTube.
Microsoft unveiled its new Xbox One X console earlier this week, promising “true 4K” gaming on “the world’s most powerful games console.” While many are debating what those promises truly mean and whether we’ll see the majority of games in Native 4K or checkerboard rendering, Microsoft’s Xbox chief Phil Spencer believes the Xbox One X is “a true 4K console.” In an interview with Eurogamer, Spencer explains the Xbox One X name, a lack of first-party game announcements, and the all-important $100 price gap between the Xbox One X and the PS4 Pro.
“I look at [PS4] Pro as more of a competitor to [Xbox One] S than I do to Xbox One X,” claims Spencer. “This is a true 4K console. If you just look at the specs of what this box is, it's in a different league than any other console that's out there.” Spencer points out 40 percent more GPU speed, more RAM, and the speed of storage as the advantages of the Xbox One X over the PS4 Pro, but he also knocks Sony’s methods for getting to 4K resolutions with some of its games. “When I think about techniques to somehow manufacture a 4K screen like what some other consoles try to do, this is different than that.” Spencer also says he expects the majority of consoles that Microsoft sells next year will be Xbox One S.
On the topic of the actual console name, Spencer says “the name had to have Xbox One in it” because the Xbox One X is part of the family of consoles. Microsoft couldn’t call it Xbox One Elite because it already has a version of the original Xbox One with that branding, and the Xbox One S is the existing console so it couldn’t use “S” alone. “Getting the trademark for Scorpio is really hard,” explains Spencer, “When we do names, you have to pick global names for things.” Microsoft ultimately picked Xbox One X because it fit with the power message and the original Xbox branding.
Finally, Spencer addresses the lack of first-party game announcements during Microsoft’s E3 press conference. Microsoft had plenty of big games to show, but in terms of announcements it was only Forza Motorsport 7 as a truly new triple-A title. Spencer believes Ori, Super Lucky’s Tale, and Sea of Thieves serve as solid announcements, but he admits he has been heavily focused on hardware over the past few years since taking over the chief Xbox role. “I do think we have an opportunity to get better in first-party and to grow,” says Spencer. “We've got great support from the company to go do that.”
Spencer also notes Microsoft has signed some “things we haven’t announced” but that it’s too early to build hype about. Microsoft canceled Fable Legends and Scalebound earlier this year, and it seems like the company is learning from showing games that aren’t ready too early. Spencer notes Microsoft could have demonstrated Halo in 4K, but that takes time away from getting the game ready. “I'm going to be conscious of putting things on-stage when I know I can make a commitment to my fans and customers that they're going to get to play those games.”
Check out Eurogamer’s article for the full Phil Spencer interview.
Project Fi is Google’s specialized wireless service designed primarily for Google’s own phones. It doesn’t get much attention because, in order to use it, your main phone pretty much has to be either a Google Pixel or a Nexus device. It hasn’t kept up with the trend of unlimited data that other carriers are doing now, but it does have a refreshingly simple business model.
Here’s how it works, if you don’t know: you pay $20 per month for your phone and $10 per GB of data that you use. That’s pretty much it. Additional phones are $15 per month and use the same data bucket. If you don’t use the data, you just pay the base rate of $20. If you use more than you planned, your “overages” are just charged at that $10 / GB rate.
Fi also has another feature that I love that Google doesn’t get much credit for: you can order free, data-only SIM cards and slap them into whatever device you want at no extra charge — it just pulls from your usual data bucket. Google announced this deal alongside support for iPads and other devices back in late 2015, but I’m only now realizing how great it is.
Project Fi is an MVNO, which means Google doesn’t actually own the towers or the network you connect to, it leases time from actual carriers. In Fi’s case, it’s T-Mobile and Sprint. I’ve only ever really seen it connect to T-Mobile and the data-only SIM only works on T-Mobile. I felt that all of this is necessary to point out because if you’re thinking of switching to Fi, you should know that their coverage might not fit your needs.
I need data connectivity to do my job, especially when I’m reporting at events. And for me, that means having access to more than one wireless carrier just in case. So while my main phone is Verizon, I also keep a Project Fi phone around as a backup for tethering.
Which brings me to the data-only SIM card. If I have a gadget (like the iPad Pro I’m using now) with a SIM card slot, it means I can use LTE on it directly rather than fuss around with turning on my phone’s tethering. It’s much more convenient, but it’s also great because I’m not draining the batteries on two different devices just so I can have internet access on one of them.
It makes me wish more devices had LTE options. Now that I know it won’t cost me a monthly fee to have LTE in a tablet, I want the same option in my laptop. There’s a very real chance it’s going to help determine my next computer purchase.
Because it doesn’t cost any extra, I can put Fi data-only SIMs in all sorts of stuff. Grab an old phone that’s sitting a drawer, put a SIM in it, and now you have a backup data device. I’m currently hunting around for a good, unlocked mobile hot spot with a big battery to replace my usual battery backup. It’s a thing I want now, I want to LTE all the things.
Don’t forget, though: it’s a data-only SIM. That means you can’t use the proper phone functions without some (sort of hacky) Google Dialer / Hangouts workarounds. (But for a secondary device, it hardly seems necessary.) You also may have to futz around with the APN settings to get a device to connect, but a surprising number of devices “just work,” including the iPad.
Maybe someday Google will stop treating Fi like a side project and make it directly available and easy to set up on more than just its own phones. In the meantime, it’s my favorite way to add LTE to my devices. If I don’t use them, they don’t cost me anything. But I have a feeling I’ll be using them a lot more now.
France and the UK are considering imposing fines on social media companies “that fail to take action” against terrorist propaganda and violent content, under a joint anti-terror campaign announced Tuesday. UK Prime Minister Theresa May will discuss the proposed measures with French President Emmanuel Macron ahead of her visit to Paris today.
In a press release, the Prime Minister’s office said the campaign aims “to ensure that the internet cannot be used as a safe space for terrorists and criminals.” May and Macron will discuss “the possibility of creating a new legal liability for tech companies if they fail to remove content,” the UK release states, including potential fines.
Leaders across Europe have pressured companies like Facebook, Twitter, and Google to more swiftly remove hate speech and terrorist material online, though there are concerns that aggressive legislation could infringe on free speech. May called for stricter internet regulations following recent terrorist attacks in London and Manchester, and her government has criticized WhatsApp and other encrypted messaging services for providing terrorists with a “secret place to communicate.”
The Prime Minister’s office says France and the UK will work with tech companies to help curb terrorist content online and develop tools to “identify and remove harmful material automatically.” Some tech companies have already begun incorporating tools to automatically detect illegal or extremist material, though experts have said that such material can be difficult to define.
“The counter-terrorism cooperation between British and French intelligence agencies is already strong, but President Macron and I agree that more should be done to tackle the terrorist threat online,” May said in a statement Tuesday. “We are united in our total condemnation of terrorism and our commitment to stamp out this evil,” she added.
The European Commission this month said that tech companies have made “significant progress” in removing violent material and hate speech, though Twitter and YouTube are still failing to abide by a voluntary “code of conduct” agreed to last year. German lawmakers are also considering legislation that would impose fines of up to €50 million ($56 million) on social media companies that fail to remove hate speech and other illegal content from their platforms. Critics say the measure would delegate too much power to private internet companies, and that it may curb freedom of speech online.

For the first time, Apple CEO Tim Cook has confirmed that the iPhone-maker is building  the technology to power self-driving cars. In an interview with Bloomberg, Cook said that the firm is currently “focusing on autonomous systems” — rather than, say, a car stamped with the Apple logo — and that this could be used for many different purposes.
“We sort of see it as the mother of all AI projects,” said Cook. “Autonomy is something that’s incredibly exciting for us, but we’ll see where it will take us. We’re not really saying from a product point of view what we’ll do, but we’re being straightforward that it’s a core technology we view as very important.”
Apple’s interest in autonomous vehicles has been something of an open secret in Silicon Valley. Rumors about the company’s efforts (codenamed Project Titan, and reportedly started in 2014) have been swirling for years. More recently, documents have emerged that clearly show Apple’s involvement in the technology, including the publication this April of a permit for the company to test self-driving cars in California.
Apple reportedly hired more than 1,000 engineers to work on Project Titan, but was forced to tweak its focus. In October last year, it was reported that the company had shrunk the team’s ambitions, from attempting to compete directly with the likes of Tesla by building the company’s own electric car, to focusing more on the software side of things. This interview with Cook confirms that this is Apple’s priority.
Whatever the company’s final goal, it is now, at least, being a bit more candid about its interest. Cook told Bloomberg that Apple sees the car industry as ripe for disruption, and noted that self-driving technology is just one of three “vectors of change” that will come to fruition in the near future. The other two, he says, are ride-sharing and electrification. “If you’ve driven an all-electric car it’s actually a marvelous experience,” said the Apple chief.
Sony’s E3 keynote wasn’t too big on major reveals, largely focusing on known quantities like God of War and Uncharted: The Lost Legacy. There was one announcement, however, that really did shock me despite not even making it into our roundup of the event: Monster Hunter World, a new game coming next year for PS4, Xbox One, and later PC.
I don’t blame my colleague Chaim for omitting it — Monster Hunter has never quite broken through in the West, and its presence in Sony’s keynote probably left a lot of viewers nonplussed. But trust me, Monster Hunter World is huge news. Here’s why.
Monster Hunter is an action-RPG series developed by Capcom. It started on the PS2, but really took off in Japan when Capcom developed the Monster Hunter Freedom games for PSP. The heart and soul of Monster Hunter is co-operative multiplayer in which players, yes, hunt monsters together, and the four-player local wireless play made the PSP games a legitimate phenomenon in Japan. Overall the Monster Hunter series has sold over 40 million units, mostly in its home country.
Well, where do you want to start? Judging by the trailer and brief press release, Monster Hunter World is the biggest overhaul yet for the series. It’s by far the most advanced on a technical level, and marks the first time that Capcom has developed a brand new Monster Hunter game for a system anywhere near this powerful — the original and 2 were on PS2 first, 3 came out on Wii, while 4 and Generations were developed for the 3DS. (I’m not counting the spin-off Monster Hunter Frontier MMOs.)
This doesn’t just mean that World is the prettiest Monster Hunter yet, although it undoubtedly is — it means that Capcom has been able to change major elements of how the game plays. World maps are no longer segmented, meaning you won’t come across any loading times when transitioning from one area to the next; Capcom says the environments feature a “living and breathing ecosystem” that can be used to your advantage.
But the biggest difference, at least in the trailer, comes down to style of play. The trailer sees a solo player making his way through a level and using stealthy techniques to locate a monster, climb on it, and take it down, which is about as far from the typical Monster Hunter approach as you can get. The game does feature multiplayer, but it’s using a new drop-in system where you head into the world yourself and can send out flares to signal to other players that you’d like them to join in. That’s a big change from previous games, where you had to form groups before deciding which quest to head out on, and it could help make Monster Hunter World a lot more accessible to a Western audience.
Monster Hunter XX, the expanded version of Monster Hunter X (known as Monster Hunter Generations in the US), just came out for 3DS in Japan and will hit Switch later this year. It’s unclear whether it will see release elsewhere; Monster Hunter World, on the other hand, is the first game in the series with a “simultaneous launch window.” In any case, it’s a major coup for Sony.
Monster Hunter isn’t quite the sales juggernaut it once was in Japan, but if World turns out well it could be a serious system seller in its home market. The PC and Xbox One versions aren’t coming to Japan at all, but neither platform has a big following in the country. Even the PS4 hasn’t performed too well locally, however — while Sony announced today that it’s sold over 60 million systems worldwide, fewer than five million of those have been in Japan. That said, it’s worth noting that Monster Hunter games have always sold better on portable consoles than home machines.
Well, you should, because Japanese games are having a heck of a moment right now and that moment won’t last too long if no-one in Japan is buying consoles.
But even then, Monster Hunter World looks like the series’ best shot yet at Western success. The Monster Hunter series is famously beginner-unfriendly, with arcane menus that are only slightly more forgiving than the complex controls and deliberate, weighty combat system. If Capcom can refine these elements while preserving the game’s immense depth and addictive loop, Monster Hunter World could really be something special.
Bless you. I do too. Maybe the Japanese trailer for the game will reassure you — it’s more action-packed and shows a lot of combat that’s very much in keeping with prior entries in the series. But there’s no doubt that World is going to be a big change, and you might be better off holding out for XX eventually coming to the Switch in English if you want more traditional hunting action, not to mention local co-op play.
Many fans assumed that XX for Switch would be the precursor to an eventual Monster Hunter 5 for Nintendo’s new console, too, since the system’s hybrid play-anywhere design seems to be a perfect match for the series. World complicates the matter, however: it’s not clear whether or where this new direction will take off. It’s entirely possible that Capcom could consider it a spin-off and later proceed with a more conservative sequel on the Switch — or even the 3DS.
Whatever happens, Monster Hunter World is one of the most surprising and intriguing announcements yet to come out of E3 2017 for anyone familiar with the series. And that could soon apply to a whole lot more people around the world if what Capcom’s planning works out. We’ll bring you more coverage of Monster Hunter World later in the week; the game is due out globally in “early 2018.”
When I reviewed the Sense sleep tracker and described it as only marginally better than a sham product, I felt bad. Time has now validated my assessment, as Hello Inc, the company built around the Sense tracker as its sole product, is going under — but I still feel bad.
The person announcing the shutdown of Hello, James Proud, is the young founder of a small team that led the company and its sleep-tracking gadget through a successful $2.4 million Kickstarter campaign, $10.5 million in Silicon Valley funding, and a subsequent $40 million funding round. More than 19,000 backers bought into the Sense idea, so it was clearly hitting on a hot area of consumer interest and demand, however the one thing the company forgot to do was develop a robust device that actually did what it promised.
What bums me out about the entire Sense saga is how calculated the whole thing felt and still feels. Proud was one of Peter Thiel's entrepreneurial fellows, which is a scheme the Facebook board member initiated to get young people to skip university for a $100,000 grant to pursue some business idea and put their skills to practical use. My impression is that the idea with Hello, in classic Silicon Valley style, was to tap the most underserved market — there's been plenty of data to show that sleep diagnostics has been a big and underdeveloped opportunity — and just figure out the product along the way. Needless to say, neither the "let's do a startup and figure out the hardware later" nor the "let's build a device and figure out the business aspects later" attitude is the right one, but the idealist in me leans more toward the latter approach. I know of more companies, such as YouTube, that have turned a popular but unprofitable product into a viable business than I know of companies that developed good products after their slick marketing campaign.
Current Sense users will be emailed instructions on how to export all of their data and delete their accounts, if they so wish, later this week. Proud says there's still a chance that the Sense service will continue, however I've heard from someone familiar with goings-on behind the scenes that Hello has been unsuccessful in finding a takeover buyer and is now unable to even pay its bills. So it seems conclusive that this is indeed the final goodbye for Hello.
Dennis Rodman is back in North Korea, the former NBA star announced this week, with help from a marijuana cryptocurrency startup. Rodman, who has made several controversial visits to North Korea, tweeted a photo of himself holding an airline ticket for the state-owned Air Koryo on Tuesday. In a subsequent tweet, he thanked PotCoin, a digital currency for buying and selling weed, “for sponsoring my mission.”
The purpose of Rodman’s visit remains unclear, though it comes amid heightened tensions between the US and North Korea over Pyongyang’s nuclear program. Four Americans are also currently detained in North Korea.
In a press release announcing the visit, PotCoin said Rodman will provide more details about his “historic” trip upon returning to the US. The weed startup also described him as having “long-time friendships” with both President Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un, the autocratic leader of North Korea. Rodman has previously appeared on the Trump-hosted reality show The Apprentice, and endorsed Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign. He also described Kim as “a friend for life” after visiting North Korea in 2013, and has drawn criticism for his public appearances alongside the dictator.
Speaking to CNN before boarding his flight, Rodman said hopes to do “something that's pretty positive” during his trip, though he said he did not intend to bring up the detained Americans during any discussions with North Korean leaders. “Well that's not my purpose right now... My purpose is to go over there and try to see if I can keep bringing sports to North Korea," the former Chicago Bulls forward told CNN.
Rodman, wearing a PotCoin-branded t-shirt and baseball cap, said in a short video released Tuesday that the trip is “all about peace.” One of Rodman’s previous trips to North Korea was sponsored by an Irish betting company. The value of PotCoin surged following Rodman’s announcement early Tuesday.
Speaking to reporters in Tokyo, Under Secretary of State Thomas Shannon said that the US was aware of Rodman’s visit, and that he is traveling as a private citizen. “We are aware of his visit. We wish him well,” Shannon said, as reported by Reuters. “But we have issued travel warnings to Americans and suggested they not travel to North Korea for their own safety.”






Late last month, The New York Times announced that it was doing away with its public editor position, a sort of ombudsman for the paper, in part because the role had been filled by reader comments on the internet. The Times, publisher Arthur Sulzberger wrote in a memo, would be opening its comment sections on a greater number of stories and partnering with Google to manage them. It would be “a sea change in our ability to serve our readers, to hear from them, and to respond to them,” Sulzberger wrote. Today, the Times is unveiling the results of that partnership: an in-house process for automating comment moderation called Moderator.
Until recently, moderators for The New York Times would manually approve an average of 12,000 comments every day, with a team of 14 wading through reader responses as they came in. In a bid for a more targeted strategy, the Times partnered with Alphabet arm Jigsaw to organize comments based on their likelihood of being flagged for moderation. Times community editor Bassey Etim says the organization has already been using Moderator, and has been slowly ramping up the number of comments it approves through it. About 20 percent of comments are now automatically approved by the tool.
In February, Alphabet announced a related tool called Perspective, built to detect “toxic” comments. By mining millions of comments and drawing input from a human panel, the company said, it could begin to predict abusive text in a percentage format — a comment could be, for example, “40 percent similar to comments people said were ‘toxic.’” (Etim says the Times provided anonymized data to Alphabet for the project.) The system was by no means perfect: for a time, a demo seemed to identify all comments written in Arabic as partially toxic, even if the content of the text was uncontroversial. Sexist YouTube remarks plugged into the system by The Verge were marked as mostly non-toxic at the time. But less-nuanced comments, such as profanity-filled tirades, seemed easily caught in the net.
Like Perspective, Moderator charts comments based on their likelihood of being toxic or similar to comments previously flagged by moderators, creating a percentage score with the most likely to be flagged appearing closer to 100 percent. The Times will continue automatically approving some comments, and a ranked list will point moderators to the most controversial comments first. Etim says the organization won’t need to sacrifice too much accuracy for the sake of automation. As one example, he says, out of more than 8,300 opinion section comments submitted on a day last month, if the algorithm had been set to approve comments with a 10 percent or lower score, about 1,500 would be approved. Out of those 1,500, 22 would have been flagged by human moderators — not too far off from mistakes humans may have made anyway.
This new system, the Times says, will mean the organization can open up more stories to comments. Starting today, all of the organization’s “top stories” — those that appear with a summary on the Times homepage — during business hours will be opened for comments.
The Moderator announcement comes at a volatile time for comment sections around the internet. Several prominent news organizations have axed them entirely, arguing that the cost of moderation is not worth the potential rewards. Others have countered that comments are an essential reservoir of expertise, and that well-tended sections can build thoughtful audiences.
Meanwhile, in the internet at large, there are still questions about how massive social media audiences should be moderated, and for the most part, they rely heavily on human judgment. The Times is certainly a smaller, more special case — a paywalled news site — but the early success seems encouraging.
Still, there are hurdles in the Times’ quest to, as the guidelines put it, facilitate “civil” conversations that “avoid name-calling” — hurdles like teaching the algorithm when to flag newly coined insults about politicians. “There’s no historical record of ‘orange menace’ needing to be rejected,” Etim says.


One of my favorite PS4 games is Until Dawn, Supermassive’s cinematic horror adventure from 2015. The game took Heavy Rain’s branching story structure and applied it to a self-aware slasher tale, which felt like a much more natural fit — even if you made the wrong call and let a character die in an gory instant, the story would just keep going. And though it was a single-player game by design, it turned out to work really well with a bunch of people on a sofa yelling frantic instructions to the player.
For Supermassive’s next game, the British studio is expanding on that idea. Hidden Agenda is a new narrative-driven PS4 crime thriller that’s designed to be played with multiple players collaborating on the characters’ decisions and actions. The really neat step is that each person uses their smartphone as a controller, letting them vote on options and act on information that may not be available to everyone else.
Hidden Agenda is part of a new initiative by Sony called PlayLink, which will enable a range of games that let you use iOS or Android devices as controllers. Other upcoming PlayLink titles include a party game called That’s You and a new entry in the popular Singstar karaoke series.
It’s easy to see how PlayLink could make party games more accessible for players who aren’t traditional gamers; Jackbox has found success with a similar idea in its Party Pack releases. Applying the tech to a gritty serial killer story, however, is pretty novel, and a smart way to build on what worked in Until Dawn. Hidden Agenda will be out at some point this year.
I feel like I always start a Surface review the same way, so here goes: I’ve always wanted Microsoft to build a laptop. A couple of years ago, Microsoft nearly did that with the Surface Book but it wasn’t enough.
The Surface Book was top heavy, chunky, and it had a removable screen that I rarely detached. Like many Surface devices, it was different for the sake of being different, but it wasn’t the ultimate laptop that Microsoft claimed it would be.
Microsoft has now finally created the laptop I’ve been waiting for, and it’s simply called the Surface Laptop. The Laptop has virtually everything a working person could ask for, yet strangely, Microsoft has bundled the Surface Laptop with Windows 10 S, a new, slightly crippled version of Windows 10 that only supports apps from the Windows Store. It can’t run any apps downloaded from a website that a pro user might want, such as Adobe Creative Cloud, Steam, or VLC. Microsoft knows there aren’t enough apps in the Store itself, so it’s allowing Laptop buyers to upgrade to Windows 10 Pro for free through at least the end of this year.
I can’t really get my work done without many of the apps I use daily, so I installed Windows 10 Pro on the Surface Laptop and have spent the last week using it as my main PC. (For a look at the Surface Laptop with Windows 10 S, be sure to check out my colleague Dieter Bohn’s review.) With Windows 10 Pro, the Surface Laptop has everything I want in a modern Windows laptop. Microsoft has created a unique blend of the finest laptop ingredients, and the result is something that looks stunning and feels luxurious. Is this the ultimate Windows laptop, though? Nearly.
Ditching Windows 10 S lets me run Chrome, Photoshop, 1Password, and a bunch of other desktop apps that aren’t available in the Windows Store. I can set Chrome as my default browser, install small utilities like Wox or Seer that make it easier to use Windows, or make low-level changes to the system if I desire. None of those things can be done on Windows 10 S. If you’re a heavy Windows user like me, you’re going to switch to Windows 10 Pro on the Surface Laptop straight away. It’s a quick process that takes less than a minute and involves a reboot.
Microsoft claims Windows 10 S is more secure and has better battery life due to some mysterious optimizations, but based on my experience using it with Windows 10 Pro, it’s hard to see how those claims are true. Windows 10 S is just a restricted version of Windows 10 Pro, and the fact it takes less than a minute to “upgrade” to the Pro version proves that fact. It might have better battery life simply because you’re forced to use Microsoft Edge as a browser, and because Microsoft controls what apps are available.
Take wox, for example, it is a fully customizable desktop search tool like Alfred on the Mac and it's not available on Windows 10S. It might not ever be, because it can replace Windows functionality at a level that's beyond regular Windows Store apps. But it's essential to me for custom Google searches. Everybody who's used Windows for any length of time probably has their own example of a must-have app that's either not available in the Store or probably won't be placed in the Store because it doesn't follow Microsoft's guidelines.
I’ve not had any issue with battery life or performance using Windows 10 Pro on this machine. It really feels like the Surface Laptop was built for Windows 10 Pro and restricting what you can do with it, as Windows 10 S does, sells it short. I’ve been testing the $1,299 Intel Core i5 model with 8GB of RAM and 256GB of storage and I’ve regularly attached it to a Surface Dock to power two displays, and it has handled it well. I can’t imagine why you’d pick any other variant — the cheaper models have less RAM and storage — and it’s the lowest price point where colors are available.
Microsoft has done some great work on the battery life with the Surface Laptop, and upgrading to Windows 10 Pro doesn’t appear to have any negative effect. I manage to get around 8 hours of solid battery life each day, which is enough to know I can head into the office without a charger. That’s the same amount of stamina that Dieter reports experiencing with Windows 10 S.
Amusingly, I’m most impressed with the fact I can close the lid and it goes to sleep properly and the battery doesn’t run down if I haven’t used it for 12 hours. (This has been an issue with every other Surface product save for the Surface Studio I’ve used.) Even if you use the Surface Dock and close the lid it will activate a clamshell mode so you can transform it into a desktop PC and attach a full keyboard and mouse.
On the hardware side, Microsoft hasn’t gone for any of its usual laptop / tablet hardware gimmicks here and I appreciate that. The Surface Laptop has a beautiful colorful aluminum finish around the entire device, and it all feels like a typical wedge-style laptop. I’ve been testing one with the striking burgundy color, and it has an impressive 13.5-inch display with the usual 3:2 Surface aspect ratio. Despite not being the typical black or silver most laptops are, the burgundy Surface Laptop doesn’t look any less professional in a work environment.
Underneath the display is something that makes the Surface Laptop a lot different: alcantara. Microsoft has opted for the Italian alcantara fabric, something that’s usually found in expensive sports cars, for the palm rests and keyboard area of the Surface Laptop. It gives it a premium look and feel, and it has allowed Microsoft to essentially build its Surface Pro keyboard into this laptop. That’s a good and a bad thing: the key travel feels great, and the spacing is solid, but just like the Surface Pro there’s a little bit of flex here. (The hollow echoing sound when you type that plagues the Pro’s elevated keyboard is fortunately not here.)
I’m a little concerned over the durability of the alcantara fabric, as it feels like owning a black pair of jeans you constantly have to use a lint roller on. I’ve been wiping off the Surface Laptop a lot, and I fear that people who don’t take care of it will end up with a very grubby looking machine in a year. I have no complaints about the trackpad, though. It’s the exact same size as the Surface Book and it feels just as good. It’s great for all of the multi-finger gestures Microsoft has built into Windows 10.
Alcantara isn’t the only gamble on the Surface Laptop. Microsoft has decided to forgo using USB Type-C ports here. The usual Surface connector, regular USB, and mini DisplayPort are present, but that’s it. I’m disappointed USB-C didn’t replace the mini DisplayPort, but I can understand why Microsoft is a little hesitant. USB-C is a mess of dongles and chargers that don’t work across devices, and my experience with the single port has been mixed. I dream of the day we can use one connector for everything, but the reality is we’re not there yet. Microsoft might have gambled and made the wrong decision here, but I feel like for most people USB-C simply doesn’t matter yet.
It would be easy to compare Microsoft’s Surface Laptop to Apple’s MacBook Air that is still praised by many today, but I think that’s unfair. The MacBook Air hasn’t been a class-leading laptop for years with its low-resolution display and aging design. Competition like Dell’s XPS 13 and HP’s Spectre x360 have shown that Apple has been left behind, and Microsoft is now releasing its Surface Laptop at a time when it’s apparent that Apple has given up on its MacBook Air.
The Surface Laptop isn’t perfect and the alcantara fabric will be a risky decision, but it does manage to achieve something very Apple-like: desire. I know there are laptops out there with more bells and whistles, but I still want to buy a Surface Laptop. Microsoft has managed to strike that fine balance of something that looks beautiful and luxurious, but that’s fully functional and effortless to use.
That’s what makes Microsoft’s insistence on Windows 10 S so confounding — it puts it at a weird disadvantage right out of the box. I understand that Microsoft needs to encourage developers to put their programs and apps into the Windows Store, and forcing 10 S is a way to do that, but when you’re spending $1,000 or more for a laptop, you don’t want it to be crippled right away.
Fortunately, upgrading to Windows 10 Pro is quick, easy, free (for now), and doesn’t have any particular downside, so it’s something I recommend you do. (And chances are, you’d probably do it even without my recommendation.) Provided you make that upgrade, the Surface Laptop might be the new default computer I recommend, essentially taking over exactly where the MacBook Air left off.
Finally. It's a word that's famously overused in tech, and it's understandable. As we use products every day, we can imagine that if just one or two small things changed, it would be perfect. But tech companies aren't just interested in iteration, even if those changes seem obvious to us. Instead, we often get offered half-baked ideas that are meant to be the start of new wave of innovation.
So when Microsoft started making Windows hardware, it felt like it was obstinately refusing to make the obvious thing. It made tablets with kickstands, laptops with detachable tablet screens, and desktops crafted for designers with too much money. Microsoft tried everything it could try to convince us to use a new kind of computer.
But now, finally, Microsoft made a device that's not trying to be something new and weird, it's just trying to be the thing you want. It's a laptop that's powerful enough to run all your apps, but thin enough to carry around — something with a high-resolution screen, a good keyboard, and a reasonable price. It's the obvious thing to make, and so Microsoft gave it the obvious name: the Surface Laptop.
This review covers the Surface Laptop running Windows 10 S. For a review of it running Windows 10 Pro, see Tom Warren’s review.
There are three things that most people who've heard of the Surface laptop are likely to remember. First, it looks a lot like the MacBook Air. Second, it has fabric on it. Third, it runs a new, limited version of Windows called Windows 10 S.
All of these things are true and I'll get into them, but none of them matter. What matters is that Microsoft has built a computer that doesn't overextend itself with any gimmicks.
Finally.
It's not entirely fair to say the Surface Laptop looks like an Air. It comes in different colors! It has that fabric! But it's also totally fair: two of the three physical dimensions of the machine are nearly identical to the classic wedge shape we associate with the Air. But where the Air and most other laptops try to soften their lines with gentle curves, the Surface Laptop goes for angularity. It's more Lamborghini than Porsche, and that gives it a unique aesthetic.
To me, though, it doesn't matter that the Surface Laptop sort of looks like the Air. Their resemblance matters because the Surface Laptop achieves in 2017 what the second-generation Air did in 2010: strike precisely the right balance of power, utility, portability, and battery life that the majority of regular consumers actually want. When you want to include a good Intel Core processor (and the fans it still unfortunately requires), a big battery, a few ports, and a good keyboard and trackpad, you end up with this shape.
The biggest hardware difference between the two, of course, is that the Surface Laptop has a big, bright, beautiful, pixel-dense, 13.5-inch touchscreen. It has a 3:2 aspect ratio, something Microsoft likes to do on its devices, and I like it, too. The taller screen means that you don't have to scroll as much on webpages and apps. Microsoft will talk your ear off about the technical qualities of this screen, but all I can tell you is that it looks great, gets very bright, and is super responsive.
It's also compatible with the Surface Pen (sold separately), and I really like how Microsoft has evolved those features so they feel like they're part of the core OS instead of something that locks you into OneNote. The screen doesn't fold flat either, so you'll really only want to use it for quick things, as the screen wobbles a bit when you write on it.
Finding the right balance for the hinge must have been tricky, though, and I do think that Microsoft might have made the hinge a little too tight to accommodate those Surface Pen users. It's a little too difficult to open the laptop one-handed when it's sitting flat on a table.
The Surface Laptop starts at $999, but I feel that exists more so that people will spend the extra $300 for the model I'm testing here, a Core i5 with 8GB of RAM and 256GB of storage. It's the model I recommend if you decide to get this laptop.

That combination of features means that unless you venture into serious gaming or video editing, you won't experience any regular slowdowns or hiccups. I certainly haven't in the past week, despite using upwards of 10 apps at a time paired with a browser running a dozen tabs. But gamers beware: I got all sorts of stutters and frame drops playing ReCore with a few apps running in the background.
I also have no qualms about battery life. Under very heavy use, I still got up over seven hours, and more regular use got me beyond eight. I suspect that if I were very careful about which apps I ran and how I tuned the battery settings I could push that over nine or maybe even approach 10. One important note: pay no attention to Microsoft's claim of 14.5 hours of video — that's full-screen local video playback only, which bears no relation to how people actually use computers.
Setting aside the colors and the fabric, Microsoft fundamentally made conservative decisions with the design. It doesn't have a screen that rotates around to become a tablet and it doesn't have the USB-C ports that the rest of the industry is trying to move everybody toward. As a person who dreams of a single cable, that bums me out. As a person who isn't fond of dongles, I get the decision. But because there's no SD card slot, I still have to carry a dongle around for my camera. Annoying. For the record, there's a single traditional USB port (plus another on the power brick for charging a phone or tablet), a mini DisplayPort, a headphone jack, and Microsoft's magnetic Surface Connector for power.
But again, choosing to go conservative with the design means that more people won't have to think through convoluted trade-offs when they're looking for a computer. It's powerful enough for most, it's light enough for most, and it doesn't ask you to buy a bunch of new cables.
Of course, the one design element that's not conservative at all is the Alcantara fabric that surrounds the keys and covers the palm rests. In fact, every person who has seen this laptop asks about it first. Most think it feels nice but is still a little weird. Most also think it's a bad idea because it will wear down after months and years of use. Or that it will get easily stained. Or, at minimum, it'll get grimy and nasty.
So yeah, about that: I am no expert on this stuff, and I certainly haven't had this laptop long enough to render final judgment. And Microsoft definitely didn't do itself any favors when it said users should treat it like a luxury product. Nor is it reassuring when the company says that Alcantara "ages beautifully, growing richer and darker over time, and is wonderfully soft to touch."
Even so, I think it's going to end up not being a very big problem for most people. Microsoft uses the same material on its Signature Type Covers for the Surface Pro tablet and there aren't that many reports of problems on it. It does pick up crumbs and lint sometimes. Also, I dutifully smeared some Caesar salad dressing on the palm rests of my Surface Laptop and it wiped off completely with a damp cloth.
The big question is why Microsoft used this fabric in the first place. As far as I know, it's simply an aesthetic thing and makes the laptop feel nicer. It certainly makes the laptop stand out and gives you something to talk about when you open it up. That's reason enough, I suppose, and I admit I like the feel of it. But I don't hate the feel of bare aluminum, either. As my colleague Tom Warren says, it would be much easier to just wipe aluminum clean.
A small thing: the way that the fabric gets attached to the laptop means that there needs to be a small indentation around the edge of the laptop deck. That, in turn, means that there's a tiny gap that runs around the seam of the laptop when it's closed.
I'll say this: I think using this fabric is an unforced error. It allows all these jokes about carpet on a laptop. It drives a conversation about the Surface Laptop, sure, but probably not the one Microsoft was hoping for.
The last thing everybody should know about the Surface Laptop: it ships with a new operating system called Windows 10 S. I say it's "new" but that's not really true at all, because the only new thing here is that 10 S is locked down so it can only run apps downloaded from the official Microsoft Windows Store.
That limitation has a ton of benefits: it means that Microsoft can vet every app that goes on your machine for malware. It means that those apps will follow new rules inside Windows that can keep them from chewing up your battery or hogging your system resources. It means that Microsoft can more confidently push out security updates and new features.
But the trade-off for all those benefits isn't worth it because the Windows Store is an app desert. Many of the apps you expect are either not in the store or — if they are there — are worse than what you can get on iPads, Mac, the full version of Windows, or even on the web.
In addition to all this, you cannot change the default browser in Windows 10 S away from Edge. Even if Chrome and Firefox were available in the store (they're not), you'd have to copy and paste links into them just like you do when you use them on iOS. (You can set other default apps, like email, to whatever you like.)
Everybody will hit the wall on different things. For me it was 1Password and SimpleNote. Both have good Windows apps, but neither are in the store. And the video conferencing solution we use, Zoom, is also unavailable in the store and its web-based equivalent doesn't work in Microsoft's browser, Edge.
When you download and try to install an app from the web, instead of letting you run the .exe, Windows will pop up a box offering to search for it in the store, where there's a very good chance you won't find it. For some apps, Microsoft says it will pop up a custom dialog pointing you directly to the app (or an equivalent) in the store.
Presumably, Microsoft is shipping Windows 10 S by default in an attempt to juice developers to get their apps into the store. Maybe that strategy will work, but I am not optimistic. Switching from Windows 10 S to Windows 10 Pro is free through the end of the year (and perhaps beyond) and takes only a few minutes to do.
When I said up top that it doesn't matter that the Surface Laptop ships with Windows 10 S, this was what I meant. The first or second time that the pop-up to switch to Pro appears, most regular users are just going to go ahead and click it. (Students and other users in managed settings: sorry for your luck.)
Be warned, however, that for now there's no going back to Windows 10 S without completely reformatting your machine.
One small note for potential Mac switchers: even though I find many of the third-party apps on Windows deficient compared to their Mac equivalents, the gap is closing. And Microsoft's own apps like Mail and Calendar are quite good. Most of all, Windows 10 just feels modern and well-thought-out in a way that macOS Sierra sometimes doesn't: Cortana works equally well from a keyboard or with your voice, for example, and settings and notifications are much easier to find now. I also really love the Windows Hello feature, which uses facial recognition to log you in nearly instantly.
The Surface Laptop totally lives up to expectations.
I think it's the new de facto Windows laptop that most people who want a Windows laptop should get — provided they can afford to spend $1,300 for the step-up model. It strikes exactly the right balance of power, portability, utility, and design for most people; albeit at a slightly higher price than its direct competitors.
To tell the truth, I don't know that there's some sort of incredible technical achievement here. It's thin but not that thin, powerful but not wildly so. Microsoft just chose to do the obvious and correct thing with this laptop over and over, even if that thing is a little boring. Then it slapped a piece of carpet on top to spice it up. I expected Microsoft to do a good job on this hardware, and it did.
But the other expectation I had for the Surface Laptop is that I'd be unable to actually get the apps I need from the Windows Store, and I was right. If you buy this laptop, you're going to end up taking the upgrade to Windows 10 Pro.
There are thinner Windows laptops. There are cheaper Windows laptops. There are more powerful Windows laptops. But all those laptops ask you to make more uncomfortable compromises than the Surface Laptop.
Logitech is unveiling a new security camera today called the Circle 2. Except the Circle 2 isn’t really one camera: it’s four different cameras in one (maybe more, depending on how you set it up). It’s meant to be wired and wireless, mounted to walls and windows, and used basically however you’d like. The only downside is that you’ll have to buy the right parts to transform it into the kind of camera you’re looking for — and there are a lot of different parts.
On its own, the Circle 2 is surprisingly small. It’s a little black disc with a 180-degree camera on one side and a smart connector on the back. The 180-degree camera is great, because it allows a single camera to monitor a ridiculously wide area. And the smart connector is what allows the camera to transform into a bunch of different shapes.
The Circle 2 isn’t meant to be used as just a tiny disc — in fact, it can’t be. It’s meant to be paired with a traditional wall mount, a battery mount, a window mount, or a plug mount that goes straight into an outlet. You’ll need at least attach one of them to power the thing.
At launch, Logitech will be selling two kits: one includes the camera and a wall mount and sells for $179.99. The other includes the camera and a battery mount and sells for $199.99. As accessories, it’ll also be selling a weatherproof extension cord, a window mount, a wall plug mount, and an extra battery; these range in price from $29.99 to $49.99. For the most part, you can mix and match the different mounts (though in one strange exception, the extra battery requires you to have purchased the camera’s battery kit first). On the plus side, the entire camera is weatherproof, so it can be used outside in any setup. The kits and accessories are supposed to begin shipping next month.
Overall, Logitech seems to have devised a smart system that opens up a lot of possibilities for buyers. One of the things Logitech says it saw with the original Circle camera was that customers had a lot of different ways they liked to use them, and its goal this time is to make it easier for customers to put the camera wherever they’d like. Logitech hints that more mounts could come over time as customers show interest in different uses of the camera.
The Circle 2’s shape-shifting is really the biggest new feature — the camera is otherwise about the same as its predecessor. Owners will be able to stream footage through the Logi Circle app and get notifications about activity. Unfortunately, some of the much more useful features require additional payment. You’ll need to subscribe to the $100-per-year, per-camera Circle Safe Premium service in order to get person detection or set activity zones. Otherwise, you’re stuck with much less useful notifications.
That kind of fee isn’t unique to Logitech — Nest also charges for person detection — but it makes cameras like these a much bigger investment if you’re using them for security. As a way to monitor your kids or a pet, though, you can probably skip out on extra payments.
Logitech has also set up Alexa support for the Circle 2; every camera has a built-in HomeKit chip, so they’ll work with Apple’s system, too. (Although, a caveat: apparently HomeKit doesn’t support battery-powered cameras, so the Circle 2 will only work with HomeKit when plugged into a wired power source.)
When the Circle 2 launches next month, it’ll face off against quite a few competitors vying to get inside your home. Netgear’s Arlo line of cameras has indoor and outdoor options, and it even recently added an option expressly designed for monitoring babies. Canary’s Flex camera takes a similar put-it-anywhere approach, with the ability for a single camera to work plugged or unplugged, indoors or out.
On top of those options, Nest just announced the Cam IQ, which shoots in 4K so that it can punch in on details. Nest even offers some of the smarts that Logitech is charging for — like person detection — for free. This should make it much cheaper if you’re looking primarily for a security camera, not a way to monitor your kids while they’re playing in the backyard.
Photography by Jacob Kastrenakes / The Verge
God of War. Spider-Man. Horizon Zero Dawn. A new Call of Duty. Choose-your-own sci-fi adventure Detroit. Big-budget zombie game Days Gone. A VR thing for Final Fantasy XV.
That was Sony from E3 2016. This year, the company showed off... well... God of War. Spider-Man. Another Horizon Zero Dawn. A new Call of Duty — now in World War II. Choose-your-own sci-fi adventure Detroit. Big-budget zombie game Days Gone. And a VR thing for Final Fantasy XV — this time fishing.
That isn’t to say it was a bad show from Sony — far from it, in fact, as each of those games have taken the year to really improve themselves. There was also a new Uncharted adventure, a remastered Shadow of the Colossus, and some Destiny 2 exclusives. Here’s everything you might’ve missed.
There was, alas, nothing for Vita.
Sony’s E3 presentation may not have had a lot in the form of new announcements, with most of the trailers and news offering new clips and extended looks on already revealed games.
That said, there were some interesting notes and a few surprises. We’ve rounded up the most important ones here.
The Lost Legacy is the first Uncharted game to not star Nathan Drake, but our new heroes — Uncharted 2 treasure hunter Chloe Frazer and Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End mercenary Nadine Ross — don’t seem to be straying too far from the series’ roots. This time? They’re after the tusk of Ganesh, which is presumably some kind of ancient treasure.
Sony’s showed off a seven minute long gameplay segment of Days Gone, it’s upcoming open-world zombie survival game trailer. The clip showed off a quieter pace than earlier trailers, with some more stealth gameplay. It also show how players can  harness the mindless hordes of zombies to their advantage. There’s still no concrete release date, though.
Shadow of the Colossus is a cult classic game from the PlayStation 2 — so popular, that Sony already released a remastered version of the game back in 2011. But now it seems that Shadow of the Colossus is getting a proper HD remake for the PlayStation 4, set to release sometime in 2018.
The next God of War game — first unveiled at last E3 — shifts the setting to Norse mythology and introduces Kratos’ son Atreus to the series. The new trailer showcases more of the hack and slash action the game is known for, complete with gory finishing moves, along with a vague “early 2018” release window.
David Cage’s next narrative action game Detroit: Become Human got a new trailer as well, showing off some of the branching choices players can make. The new clip showed off a character named Marcus, as he leads other androids in a riot against their human makers. Again, no hard release date yet.
Sony closed out the conference with a reveal of some gameplay for Insomniac’s upcoming Spider-Man game. As expected, the title is filled with acrobatic action and combat that favors chaining attacks together, along with a glorious look at how the open world web-slinging will work. That said, there were quite a few quick-time events that could sour the deal. Spider-Man is a PS4 exclusive, set to release in 2018.
Bungie will release Destiny 2 for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on September 6th, two days before the official launch date Bungie announced at the game’s reveal event last month. The new release date was slipped into the very end of the newest cinematic trailer for Destiny 2, which Sony showed off here at its E3 press conference. Soon after, publisher Activision also confirmed the PC release date — almost two months later, on October 24th.
It was originally assumed that this new release date was a PlayStation exclusive, part of Sony’s ongoing deal with Bungie and publisher Activision that’s lasted since the original game’s launch in September of 2014. As part of the deal, PS4 players will get access to exclusive strikes, weapons, and armor for up to one year after Destiny 2’s release. However, game director Luke Smith was quick to clarify on Twitter that the release date is for both consoles.
Destiny 2 will launch on all consoles September 6th.
Smith’s careful wording here indicated that the PC version of Destiny 2 wouldn’t be ready in time for the console launch, a fact later confirmed by Activision CEO Eric Hirshberg. "We are also hard at work with our friends at Bungie optimizing Destiny 2 for the PC, which we will be releasing in all its glory on October 24," Hirshberg said, confirming what Bungie had already admitted in an interview after the game’s big announcement.
Bungie also gave out beta information. The beta will last around two and a half days, from 1PM ET, July 21st to 12AM, July 24th for PS4 and Xbox One. The PC beta is slated to happen later on in August. If you preorder Destiny 2, Bungie says you’ll get early access to the beta: 1PM ET, July 18th for PS4 preorder owners, and the same time but a day later for Xbox One.


Sony showed off brand new gameplay footage of its survival horror zombie game Days Gone to kick off its E3 showcase today. We’ve seen a healthy chunk of the title in the past, but the new trailer gives us a good glimpse of how the game plans on blending personal, high-stakes narrative with larger-scale terrifying zombie set pieces — plus, motorcycle travel.
A early and apparent signature of the game is hordes of 30 to 40 zombies that mob you in dynamic ways and at anxiety-inducing speeds.  The new footage shows off the ways in which players will have to maneuver those survival settings and with more intense human encounters.
Days Gone is being developed by SIE Bend Studio, known (under its earlier moniker Eidetic) for 1999 stealth game Syphon Filter and several sequels. Sony announced the game last year at E3, complete with a gameplay clip showing a truly ridiculous number of zombies. It was also rumored well before that, under the pulpier title Dead Don’t Ride.
The latest cinematic trailer for Uncharted: The Lost Legacy gives a closer look at some of the gorgeous new ruins and areas players will able to explore in Naughty Dog’s next epic. Announced in December, The Lost Legacy is a spinoff of the main Uncharted franchise and the first game in the series to not star hero Nathan Drake. (He retired from treasure hunting after last year’s Uncharted 4.) The game pairs Uncharted 2 treasure hunter Chloe Frazer with the mercenary Nadine Ross from last year’s Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End.
Uncharted: The Lost Legacy is scheduled to be released on PlayStation 4 on August 22nd.
Superhot VR is coming to PlayStation’s virtual reality headset this summer, Sony announced on its E3 pre-show live stream today. The game, which first came out on PC, Mac, and Linux last year, became a truly amazing VR experience when it was ported to the Oculus Rift for how it makes use of motion and the idea of time. It appears the Rift exclusivity window Superhot’s developers agreed to has ended, giving Sony the chance to bring it over to PS VR at last.
The non-VR original introduced a unique shooter element never before seen: a game where time moves only when you do. When the game came to the Rift back in December, this game design feature was heightened by replacing  your physical body as the primary input control. Suddenly, even the most subtle of movements would send bullets and polygonal enemies racing toward you at frightening speeds.
Only by slowing down, planning your route of attack, and carrying out smooth and flawless movements could you overcome your foes. Plus, it made you feel like a true action movie badass in ways few shooter games have ever accomplished, all with low-key graphics and plain environments. Sony didn’t announce an official release date, but we can expect it some time in the next couple of months.
Ubisoft brought out the big guns — quite literally and fantastically, at times — to start their E3 2017 press conference. The event started with legendary Nintendo designer Shigeru Miyamoto, who brought hand cannon toys on stage to introduce Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle. Ubisoft also announced Transference, a VR project with actor Elijah Wood; competitive naval pirate game Skull & Bones; and racing game The Crew 2 (now with boats and planes). Of course, it wouldn’t be an Ubisoft show without Assassin’s Creed, Far Cry, and a tease about Beyond Good and Evil 2 — so yeah, those were there, too.
There was, alas no Aisha Tyler hosting this year.
Waymo is done driving around the cute, steering-wheel-free autonomous cars that were introduced by Google back in 2014. In a blog post this afternoon, Waymo leaders write that time has come to “retire our fleet of Fireflies” — their name for the tiny cars — and focus instead of integrating self-driving technology into other vehicles, like the Chrysler Pacifica minivans Waymo put on the road earlier this year.
“By focusing on mass-produced vehicles like the Pacifica minivan, we’ll be able to bring fully self-driving technology to more people, more quickly,” the Waymo leaders write. They also say that focusing on mass-produced vehicles opens up more opportunities for testing, since the Fireflies were limited to a top speed of 25 miles per hour.
The move shows Google pretty definitely moving away from producing its own vehicles and competing with automakers to instead focusing on collaborating with and selling technology to any automakers that are interested. While Google will be competing with quite a few other companies at this point to sell self-driving tech, it has a head start on testing; and ultimately, selling the technology is going to be a lot easier than figuring out how to mass produce and market its own self-driving cars.
Still, there’s something disappointing about seeing Waymo’s first self-driving car — and its bold vision for the future of vehicles — disappear in favor of a traditional vehicle. Google imagined a world without steering wheels, shifters, or a brake pedal, where the inside of a car was designed just for sitting. We may well get back to that point some day. But for now, don’t expect your first self-driving car to have a smiley face on it.
Clickfarms are a dubious business people rarely get a peek inside of, but accept as part of our everyday internet existence. We know companies pay bots to shower likes, emoji, ratings, nonsensical comments, and plain traffic on content in order to artificially boost online popularity and rake in ad dollars. Now, a recent raid in Thailand is giving another look at the underbelly of the bot industry.
According to the Bangkok Post, Thai police and soldiers raided a rented home yesterday near the Cambodian border, discovering an alleged clickfarm ring run by three Chinese nationals. Wang Dong, Niu Bang, and Ni Wenjin are said to have had metal racks set up in the house with hundreds of 5S, 5C, and 4S iPhones wired to computer monitors. In total, 474 iPhones, 347,200 unused SIM cards belonging to Thai mobile phone operators, 10 computers / laptops, and other assorted electronics were reportedly seized.
Officers originally thought the men were running a fraudulent call center, but the suspects said they were being paid to operate a vast network of bot accounts on WeChat, China’s largest social network. According to the Post, the trio of men said a Chinese company (which they refused to name) supplied the phones and was paying them each 150,000 baht per month (about $4,403 USD) to artificially boost engagement on WeChat for products sold online in China. The operation was reportedly headquartered in Thailand due to the country’s relatively cheap smartphone usage fees.
WeChat’s bot problem is not new. The platform has over 700 million monthly users, most in China; chatbots are legitimately used by brands to interact with clients, but unsanctioned ones run rampant, spamming groups and artificially bloating brand likes and follows.
The Bangkok Post says the men were arrested on several charges including overstaying their visas, working without a permit, using unregistered SIM cards, and, according to a later report also from the Bangkok Post, smuggling. Working without a permit in Thailand can result in a five-year prison sentence, or a fine ranging from 2,000-100,000 baht (about $58-$2,936 USD), or both.
Police are currently looking into how the men were able to smuggle so many smartphones into the country and acquire such a large number of local SIM cards, which are legally required to keep users’ records once activated.
รวบแล้ว! ไม่หมดแค่นี้ยังมีอีกเยอะ!!!

สระแก้ว : รวบมือรับจ้างกดไลค์

11 มิ.ย. 60

ว่าที่ พ.ต.อ.เบญจพล รอดสวาสดิ์ ผกก.ตม...
Alienware has announced an updated version of its flagship Area 51 gaming PC, which is getting upgraded with a choice of Intel’s new Core X-series processors or AMD’s recently announced Ryzen Threadripper chips.
The Area 51 is built to order, and there’s room for some truly ridiculous specs if you have the means. From Intel Core-X series, customers have the choice of the 6-core i7 7800X, 8-core i7 7820X, or 10-core i9 7900X processors. Meanwhile, graphics cards range from a single Nvidia GTX 1050 Ti, to dual GTX 1080 Ti cards running in SLI, all the way to triple AMD Radeon RX 580s running with AMD Crossfire.
The Threadripper model will be available starting July 27th, while the Core X variant is shipping at the end of the summer. Prices for both have yet to be announced, but given the ridiculous level of high-end hardware Alienware has to offer, it probably won’t be cheap.

Alienware is debuting a new line of accessories at E3 this year, with new mice, keyboards, and a new high-end gaming monitor that will go perfectly with your Alienware computer.
First up, the mice. Alienware has two new ones to offer: the $49.99 Advanced Gaming Mouse, and the $89.99 Elite Gaming Mouse. Both mice offer the option to quickly switch DPI sensitivity on the fly, customizable LEDs, and nine configurable buttons. The more expensive Elite Gaming Mouse builds on that with more premium materials, adjustable weights, and more DPI levels.
On the keyboard side of things, Alienware has the $89.99 Advanced Gaming Keyboard, which has KaiHua brown mechanical switches and ambient LED lighting. And for a step up, there’s the $119.99 Pro Gaming Keyboard, which adds backlight keys, a dedicated volume roller, and onboard memory for storing macros.
Lastly, there’s the Alienware 25 Gaming Monitor, which offers 1920 x 1080 resolution, a native refresh rate of 240Hz, and a 1-millisecond response time. And true to the company’s philosophy of hardware choice, the Alienware 25 is available in both a $499.99 model with AMD FreeSync or a $699.9 model with Nvidia’s G-Sync, depending on your preference.
I'm already really excited about Apple's drag-and-drop functionality in iOS 11. The big limitation, however, is that you can only drag and drop between apps on the iPad. On the iPhone your drag and drops are constrained to moving objects around inside an app. For a feature that's so dependent on developer adoption, restraining its most interesting use case to a platform that's vastly less popular than the iPhone is disappointing.
However, we're learning today that iPhone inter-app drag and drop actually exists in iOS 11, it's just disabled by a hidden system setting that can't be accessed by users. Here it is in action:
Interprocess drag & drop on iPhone is gated by the BOOL 'CancelOnDeactivationPhone' in the UIKit prefs (and the aforementioned) pic.twitter.com/6wUbQNd18f
Developer Steve Troughton-Smith, who is famous for finding hidden and undocumented features in Apple products, discovered the functionality in the iOS 11 beta. Steve reasonably conjectures that if the next iPhone has a software home button, it might make the perfect drop target:
If Apple’s gonna have an onscreen homebutton on the iPhone 8, it would make a lot of sense to spring-load it for drag & drop. A drop target
Because the iPhone doesn't have the slide-up dock, multitasking view, or split screen apps that the iPad has, I can see why Apple thought it should limit drag and drop to its larger mobile device. Hopefully the company will change its mind by the time iOS 11 is ready to ship so we can bring drag and drop to all the people.
Ubisoft put together a nicely varied press conference for this year’s E3, including a partnership with Nintendo, a weird VR game from Elijah Wood’s film studio, and more details about big tentpoles like Far Cry 5. There weren’t massive surprises, especially because Assassin’s Creed Origins, one of its biggest games at the show, was announced during Microsoft’s conference yesterday.
At the same time, we got one very exciting reveal: Beyond Good and Evil 2, a game that’s been teased for years. You can get the biggest news below, or check out all the details here.
Crossing the world of Mario with Ubisoft’s Raving Rabbids is strange enough, but it’s even weirder that Mario + Rabbids: Battle Kingdom seems to be an XCOM-like tactical game. Among other things, it’s got Mega Man-style arm cannons, destructible environments, and classic Mario characters played by Rabbids in cosplay. And it’ll be out for the Nintendo Switch on August 29th.
After many false starts, Ubisoft might finally be making the long-awaited sequel to 2003 classic Beyond Good and Evil — except actually, it’s a prequel. We got an exciting new trailer with a Fifth Element vibe at this year’s E3, although we still don’t know when the game might launch. It’s too early to celebrate, but given that another perennial E3 no-show — The Last Guardian — was finally released last year, anything is possible.
Lots of people loved Assassin’s Creed: Black Flag, so Ubisoft apparently decided to give players a piracy-focused game called Skull & Bones. It’s a seafaring multiplayer game where you build a fleet, customize your ships, and battle fellow pirates. It’ll be released in 2018. It may include a kraken.
Ubisoft’s sequel to 2014 game The Crew is set in an open world where you can push the speed limits of just about any vehicle — cars, planes, dirt bikes, boats, and more. Its truly ridiculous cinematic trailer looks like Inception: Extreme Sports Edition, which probably isn’t literally representative of the game, but remains gorgeous. There’s also some footage of the gameplay, including an offroad competition and a plane race through Manhattan. The game comes out in 2018, but it’s accepting applications for a beta before then.
We already knew the latest Far Cry game was set in Montana, where players would be fighting a rural religious cult. Now we know you’ll be doing it with a sniper partner, an aerial warfare expert, and a pet dog named Boomer, all of which will help you cause fairly ludicrous amounts of destruction. The game launches February 27th.
When Amazon introduced voice calling for its Echo devices, we criticized the company for seemingly rolling out the feature without really paying any mind to privacy. It was quickly discovered that users had no way of blocking calls and message to Echo products in their home, and Amazon promised to fix the oversight “in the coming weeks. Today it’s starting that effort. A just-released update to the Alexa app for iOS mentions “the ability to block contacts from calling and messaging you.”
The block feature can be added from the contacts list; you just scroll down, choose the person you don’t want to receive calls or messages from, and tap “block contact.”
I don’t yet see the block feature on the Android version of Alexa, but hopefully Amazon will update that app quickly so that everyone can have greater control over who has a quick line into their home. (You’re unable to block users from Alexa’s web settings, so the app is required.) Unfortunately, turning off calling/messaging functionality altogether is still too difficult for customers, as it requires a phone call to Amazon customer service. Ridiculous.
The long-awaited sequel to Beyond Good & Evil is indeed real, and we have proof: Ubisoft just released a surprise cinematic trailer for the game at the publisher’s E3 keynote. The trailer kicks off with a long chase sequence featuring a monkey with a cybernetic hand and a human companion racing through a futuristic cityscape, before the pair blast off into space. There doesn’t appear to be any returning characters from the first game; story wise, it will actually be a prequel.
Here’s how Ubisoft describes it:
Journey to System 3, for the prequel to one of Ubisoft’s most beloved games! Fight alongside unforgettable characters in a stunning new solar system, as you struggle for freedom and the right to determine your own fate among the stars. Play the adventure by yourself or with friends in a vast and seamless online playground.
Beyond Good & Evil 2 is the spiritual successor to the cult classic, a prequel that will transport players into a profoundly multicultural world, capturing the spirit of the original with grandiose decors and intense dramas that play out across a vast universe. Through the Space Monkey Program, Ubisoft Montpellier will be developing the game alongside its community of fans.
Beyond Good & Evil 2 is a follow-up to a 2003 cult classic, a Zelda-style adventure about a photojournalist uncovering secrets on a strange alien world. The sequel was announced in 2008, but we’ve heard remarkably little since then. Instead of big splashy reveals or flashy trailers, news of the game has primarily come from the Instagram feed of Michel Ancel, designer and director on both games, who occasionally posts art and updates about the sequel.
While the new trailer proves Beyond Good & Evil 2 does in fact exist, there are still plenty of questions, such as when it will launch and on what platforms. In the meantime, you can watch this lengthy trailer breakdown with Ancel.
The new gameplay trailer for Far Cry 5 introduces us to the faces of the resistance, who are trying to liberate a small town from the clutches of murderous religious zealots. Over the course of the 3-minute demo we meet Grace Armstrong, a tough-talking sniper out of a 1970s blaxploitation film; Nick Rye, a flying ace who rains death from above in his small plane, and Boomer, an angry dog. In the demo, they team up to stop a group of gun-wielding thugs from murdering a couple of unlucky residents.
Far Cry 5 is the follow-up to last year’s prehistoric-themed Far Cry Primal, which launched two years after Far Cry 4. Ubisoft’s forthcoming open-world game is set to include two-player co-op and a map editor.
It is scheduled to be released February 27th on PC, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One.
Ubisoft took the stage at its E3 press conference to announce some new games and show off some existing ones. There’s more of Assassin’s Creed: Origins and Far Cry 5, a new pirate game called Skull and Bones, and in one of the biggest surprises of the show, a new trailer for the long-awaited Beyond Good and Evil 2. Here are the biggest trailers, gameplay videos, and announcements from the EA’s E3 2017 event.
Ubisoft has just announced Starlink: Battle for Atlas, a new space shooter that will feature the first ever modular and collectible Nintendo Switch controller add-ons. The game, unveiled at the publisher’s E3 press conference today, looks like a mix of Mass Effect and No Man’s Sky, putting players in the role of interstellar pilots fighting an malevolent artificial intelligence force.
Of course, the plot is secondary compared to the real-life collectibles for the Switch-specific version. The first trailer for Starlink shows the Switch controller acting as a base to mount some impressive looking toy starships and even a Skylanders / Amiibo-style NFC pilot figurine. At one point, the user in the video even swaps out parts on the ship to change the customization options in the game. You’ll also be able to buy an accessory it seems to mount the collectibles onto a PlayStation or Xbox controller, so this isn’t just a Switch-specific feature. (The game is being advertised as multi-platform.)
We don’t know much else about Starlink, but it’s slated for a fall 2018 release.

Ubisoft has announced it will sell 200 special editions (in North America) of Assassin’s Creed Origins, but the package won’t come with a real life hawk, so like, what’s even the point. For those still interested, the package includes Assassin’s Creed Origins Gold Edition, the season pass, a “Digital Deluxe Pack,” an additional mission, a 28.7-inch statue, a hand-drawn artistic representation of the game’s map, a collector’s case, a replica amulet, a steelbook, an artbook, four lithographs, and the soundtrack. But again, no real life hawk.
Who spends $800 on an Assassin’s Creed special edition, if it doesn’t give them an actual hawk that will be your new best friend and closest confidant, running errands and reconnaissance, just like the fake hawk in the video game. My guess is people who love statues. Featuring protagonist Batek and his hawk Senu, the figurine is extremely detailed. You could even trick a very young child that the tiny hawk is real. But it isn’t.
The special edition will only be available on Ubisoft’s UPlay store.

Ubisoft just showed off some bits and pieces of The Crew 2, the first full sequel to 2014’s The Crew. And judging from what we saw onstage and in the videos Ubisoft just uploaded to YouTube, The Crew 2 is all about taking the idea of an open-world racer to almost absolute limits.
The Crew 2 isn’t about wowing you with lifelike physics, or overwhelming you with a collection of pixel-perfect, officially licensed cars (though it definitely includes a bunch). Instead, it’s all about letting you drive everything. That means cars, racecars, off-road cars, planes, boats, bikes, and more. The trailer shows off everything from street racing, to Formula One-style competition, to a stand-in for the Red Bull Air Race series. There’s even a few glimpses of Sprint Boat racing — a niche but truly insane form of motorsports that you should take a few minutes to watch right now.
Of course, in true Crew fashion, all of this is taken way beyond realism, to sometimes questionable extremes. (The planes, for instance, are shown racing through and around the buildings of Manhattan, which seems like an iffy choice no matter what year it is.) Whether Ubisoft can still make the game feel grounded while reaching for such heights is a question worth asking in the coming months as The Crew 2 comes out in beta, and when it hits Xbox, PlayStation, and PC in 2018.

Ubisoft announced a new pirate game called Skull and Bones at its E3 keynote: a shared world where you can team up with friends to sail and loot your way to pirate supremacy.
The game looks like in many ways an upgraded version of the piratical party of Assassin's Creed 4: Black Flag, just with only the nautical bits (i.e., the best parts of that game.) Skull and Bones is set in the Golden Age of Piracy, with players able to build fleets, customize ships, and of course, plunder treasure from trading ships and other pirates.
Ubisoft showed off a 5v5 multiplayer battle in Skull and Bones at the keynote, and it looks seriously impressive, with some stunning graphics and interesting applications of real world sailing factors like the wind and cannon angles. If that wasn’t enough, there are sea shanties! And a kraken!
Skull and Bones is set to release in 2018 for PC, Xbox One, and PlayStation 4.
President Trump’s twitter habit has been a force for chaos since the early days of the campaign — but now, Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL) has a plan to make sure those tweets end up in a permanent archive. Named after one of Trump’s most bewildering tweets, the COVFEFE Act (short for Communications Over Various Feeds Electronically for Engagement) would amend the Presidential Records Act to include social media as a documentary material. The proposal has a long way to go, but if it passes, it would result in a legal requirement to ensure all @POTUS tweets, direct messages, and Facebook posts end up in the presidential archive — even if they’re deleted from the service itself.
Maintaining those tweets is particularly urgent, as the president’s Twitter account has become one of the central means of decoding the administration’s goals and motivations. A circuit court decision earlier today cited a @realDonaldTrump tweet concerning the travel ban as evidence of presidential intent, and the White House has confirmed that tweets from the accounts are to be taken as official statements. A recently launched Twitter account has taken that idea one step further, reformatting @RealDonaldTrump tweets as press releases from the official press secretary. More recently, free speech groups filed a lawsuit arguing that blocking users from the account constitutes a violation of the First Amendment.
A statement by the President: pic.twitter.com/MQ8EddMHtB
At the same time, @realDonaldTrump has far more deleted tweets than the average government account. ProPublica records seven separate deletions since the beginning of May, and eighteen since the inauguration. Those range from simple typos like the “covfefe” tweet to significant political statements, including one tweet that seems to call for a subpoena against former assistant US Attorney Sally Yates.
In theory, records of those are being maintained as part of an informal understanding between the White House and the National Archives, which holds all presidential records after the end of a president’s term. The National Archives have advised the White House to preserve deleted tweets, and according to a statement to Congress in March, the White House agreed to do so. Still, that’s only an informal agreement, and if the White House violated it, it’s not clear there would be any legal consequences.
For Rep. Quigley, it’s worth making that requirement a full-fledged law. “If the President is going to take to social media to make sudden public policy proclamations, we must ensure that these statements are documented and preserved for future reference,” he said in a statement. “Tweets are powerful, and the President must be held accountable for every post.”
Ubisoft Montreal and Elijah Wood’s film studio SpectreVision are working on a virtual reality “psychological thriller” called Transference. We don’t know much about the game, but its trailer combines modern VR imagery with shades of ‘80s techno-horror. It’s apparently about a world where human memories can be digitally recreated, and players navigate “the maze-like puzzle of an impossible home” in a branching narrative about a man and his troubled family. It will star Macon Blair, who starred in indie films Green Room and Blue Ruin before directing dark revenge comedy I Don’t Feel at Home in this World Anymore.
Transference will be supported on Oculus Rift, PlayStation VR, and HTC Vive. But unlike Ubisoft’s last VR game Star Trek: Bridge Crew, it’s also available outside VR on PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. Building something that works on both mediums could be hard, and we don’t know what the game will look like or how it’ll be played. But it’s supposed to be coming out in the spring of 2018.
SpectreVision —co-founded by Elijah Wood, Daniel Noah, and Josh C. Waller — is the studio behind horror film A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night and Bitch, one of the weirdest films we saw at Sundance this year. Wood previously narrated the Emmy Award-winning Henry, an animated short from Oculus’ now-shuttered VR film studio. This looks like a much darker take on virtual reality, although at this point, it could turn out to be just about anything.
Ubisoft has announced Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, a game that combines Nintendo’s iconic franchise with Ubisoft’s Raving Rabbids in a tactical, turn-based RPG. The game was confirmed today, and will release on August 29th for the Nintendo Switch. Oh, and for some reason, everyone has giant Mega Man-style cannons on their arms.
According to Shigeru Miyamoto, who took the stage at Ubisoft’s event to announce the game, he challenged the development team to make a Mario game unlike any Mario game before. The gameplay consists of a mix of exploration, combined with what looks like an XCOM-styled, top-down turn-based combat. Just, you know with Mario and Rabbid characters instead of gritty space soliders.
Rumors about the mash-up have been circulating since early 2017. But the first real look at the game arrived when key art — featuring classic Mario characters like the eponymous plumber, Yoshi, and Luigi — leaked in May. The image also showed off the Rabbids, dressed up like characters from the Mario franchise.
A new report from marketing firm Mediakix looked at posts from the Instagram accounts of the platform’s 50 most-followed celebrities over a period of one month. The report found that 93 percent of posts promoting a brand were not labeled in a way that made them compliant with the FTC guidelines.
BuzzFeed’s Katie Notopoulos sorted the full list of 152 non-compliant Instagram posts into four categories, determined by what type of sponsored content they were. Her analysis found that 49 percent were posts failing to disclose a long-term sponsorship agreement, such as Selena Gomez’s partnership with Coach. Sixteen percent failed to disclose what she termed a “big freebie” (a gift from a brand with a value of thousands of dollars). Twelve percent failed to disclose a “small freebie” (items like clothes, accessories, or beauty products). And 12 percent failed to label obvious pay-to-post ads, like one-time-only posts about diet teas, teeth whiteners, or meal kit boxes. (The types of things the Kardashians got in trouble for last year.) Eleven percent of the posts were deemed “unclear.”
This is an ongoing problem for the FTC, and for consumers. The regulatory organization announced plans to enforce stricter rules about social media posting in the summer of 2016, but celebrities largely seem to have continued doing whatever they want.
visited my @stuartweitzman fam at the new HQ today     newness coming sooooon !!
A post shared by Gigi Hadid (@gigihadid) on Apr 13, 2017 at 7:18pm PDT
Many Instagram celebrities came under fire following this spring’s disastrous Fyre Festival, which was advertised extensively in expensive sponsored posts. Not all of these posts were labeled, and they were all posted by people who seemed to know almost nothing about the festival. Earlier that month, the FTC announced that it had sent letters to 90 brands and celebrities on Instagram, advising them to disclose their sponsored content more clearly and re-outlining the rules.
FTC guidelines say sponsored Instagram posts can be considered compliant in one of two ways: either a very clear caption using words like “sponsored by,” or the appending of a hashtag like #ad or #sponsored. The hashtags have to be “conspicuous,” meaning that they can’t be tacked onto the end of a long caption or series of hashtags, and they must appear without a viewer having to click “more.”
The only way this gets fuzzy is when celebs try to wriggle around the rules by using vaguer terms like “Thanks [brand]!,” or hashtags like #sp and #partner, which the FTC does not deem clear enough for the average Instagram user.
Oooo ahhhhh! This has to be my favorite box from @fabfitfun yet. It's brimming with some seriously top notch products. I feel Like I'm stealing because I got all these goodies for the price of one of these products. Remember per usual these aren't dinky sample sizes, these are full size products. I'm having a hard time picking one specifically to tell you about but I'm kinda really living for this @gypsy05 roundie especially for summer time at the beach or park or even as a throw inside for a pop of color. I'm going to  Be getting A LOT of use out of this. Scroll to the left to see more pics of what is in the box and watch my story for a deeper look. But honestly don't waste time because it will sell out. Head to www.fabfitfun.com and use my code MALONEY and you will receive $10 off. #fabfitfun #fffpartner
A post shared by Katie Maloney-Schwartz (@musickillskate) on Mar 23, 2017 at 2:47pm PDT
One major exception to the rules is promotion of artistic projects, which don’t have to be disclosed as an ad. Examples would be a film that the celebrity acted in, a magazine photoshoot they appeared in, or a new music album released by a friend. But those are easy to recognize, and don’t have the same deceptive effect on consumers.
The biggest offender is fashion. Mediakix found that 61 percent of sponsored posts were related to the fashion industry, which explains, somewhat, why the lines between paid and personal are so often blurred. Does wearing Reebok track pants automatically count as an ad? Well, no, but asking the question is a useful rhetorical device when you’re trying to get out of trouble. Tagging a favorite makeup artist in a post might be an ad or it might not be, and it’s easy to argue that it was just a good-faith hat tip.
The FTC’s guide for promoting brands on social media is extensive, and pretty much crystal clear. So, aside from the fact that they’ve yet to face any consequences, it doesn’t make a lot of sense that celebrities keep messing it up.
A representative for the FTC declined to comment for this story.
Correction: A previous version of this article stated that the FTC sent letters to 90 celebrities / influencers but the letters went to 45 brands and 45 celebrities / influencers.
When it comes to purchasing a mechanical watch, there are seemingly a million different options to choose from. From materials, to price range, country of origin, color, band style — the different choices are nearly endless. But I’m here to make that decision easier.
There are three main factors to take under consideration when you’re in the market for a mechanical watch: style, dial, and price. These three elements can lead you to the perfect watch for any situation, whether it’s a gift for someone else or a new watch for you.
This is the biggest question you need to ask yourself: what type of watch do you want? The first option to tick off here is metal bracelet or leather strap? There are also NATO straps to consider as well, but those can fit on most watches and are available from a number of third parties.
Within the metal vs. leather debate, there are different materials under each section: do you want a gold, stainless steel, or platinum bracelet? Black leather or brown? Gold accents or silver?
The options seem daunting, but most people have predetermined preferences. Leather bands are traditionally for more formal events, but higher-end metal bracelets are just as respected.
After you figure out the materials you want in your watch, the next step is choosing the dial. There are a ton of options here to choose from, with a number of complications like the date, secondhand sub-dials, time zones, chronographs, tourbillions, Moon phases, and so on.
Perhaps none of these things are going to be crucial to you, unless you have a specific reason why you’re buying a watch. (For example, a chronograph would be useful for a diver.) For most people, the real choice here is design. Do you want a busy dial, or something more clean and minimal? A chronograph will offer you three subdials, while a simple date complication will keep the dial relatively sparse.
If this is your first watch, something more minimal with sleek hands that can be worn in any environment may be more appealing. If you have a piece like that already, or if you want a more advanced timepiece, a more complicated watch like a chronograph could be the way to go.
The price won’t determine what features you can get in your watch, but it will determine the quality of the materials, construction, and the legacy of the timepiece you choose.
Sure, you can buy an Invicta off of Amazon for around $100 that will look relatively similar to a Rolex or a Hublot to the untrained eye. But if you do that, you’re getting gold paint instead of solid gold, a mass-produced movement instead of Rolex’s in-house option, and it definitely won’t be handmade.
There’s also the country of origin to take into consideration. Some people will want a true Swiss watch, while some may prefer a timepiece made in the US, or even Japan. The most expensive watches are definitely Swiss-made, with a few exceptions like Swatch, which are very popular and very affordable. Decent watches made in Japan and the US can be found for as low as $300.
Once you know what type of watch you want, buying your piece is the last step. I recommend going straight to the watchmaker’s store if possible. If that isn’t an option for you, check the watchmaker’s website for authorized resellers near you.
The resale market may also come into play if you’re looking for something like a vintage Rolex at an affordable price. (A used Rolex can range from $4,000 to well over $100,000 depending on the model.) Regardless of which piece you’re looking for, however, you should only buy a used watch from an authorized and reputed seller who has authenticated the piece. In the vintage watch market, fakes are very common, so it’s crucial for people who are new to watches to make sure the seller isn’t a charlatan.
A watch is something that can be passed down for multiple generations. It even grow in value if you select the right piece, and take care of it. So choose wisely, and know that there’s a good chance your investment may become the newest heirloom in your family.

Ubisoft is bringing some of its biggest franchises to Los Angeles this year, including Far Cry, Assassin’s Creed, and at least one brand new thing.
Not long ago the publisher unveiled Far Cry 5, which launches next year and shifts the setting to Montana, where players will face off against a religious doomsday cult. While we already know a lot about the setting and characters, expect to see a deeper dive into how the game will actually play at E3.
Meanwhile, we already know that a new Assassin’s Creed is in the works — rumors suggest it’ll take place in ancient Egypt — and we’re likely to get a first glimpse of the game in action during Ubisoft’s keynote. Also expect to see more of the oft-delayed South Park RPG, the sequel to 2014 online racer The Crew, and potentially a few surprises as well; a teaser video notes that Ubisoft will reveal a brand new property at the event. Who knows, maybe there will actually be a mention of Beyond Good & Evil 2.
Here’s how to follow everything as it happens on June 12th:
Starting time: San Francisco: 1PM / New York: 4PM / London: 9PM / Berlin: 10PM / Moscow: 11PM / Beijing: 4AM (June 13th) / Tokyo: 5AM (June 13th) / Sydney: 6AM (June 13th).
Keynote live stream: Ubisoft will be streaming the event directly on its site, as well as on both Twitch and YouTube.
Anyone who has watched even isolated clips from The Bachelor or The Bachelorette can glean that it is an environment that makes otherwise normal people behave very strangely. The more savvy, dedicated viewer can identify week six as the usual tipping point where contestants go from having fun to crying at the slightest provocation, or threatening to punch someone at the slightest provocation, or doing bad karaoke, or getting naked, or trying to choke out the Bachelor at the slightest provocation.
It’s well known that the contestants have limited access to phones and the internet while they’re on the show, in part so that they don’t inadvertently spoil things and in part so that the producers can more convincingly orchestrate truly bananas scenarios in which the contestants “stumble upon” tabloids, consume them ravenously, and then freak out about their contents.
But just how limited is their access to media? As it turns out: so limited I can barely believe it. These guys and gals essentially sit in an enormous mansion (or various far-flung hotel rooms) all day for two months, with nothing to entertain them but their own thoughts and their competitors in the sport of love. It is a torture scenario derived from No Exit, and it thoroughly explains how stuff like this happens:
For starters, I asked the expert on all things The Bachelor and The Bachelor spinoffs, Reality Steve (a blogger who regularly knows the winner of a given season before it even starts airing), to fill me in. He said, to his knowledge, the only access to media the contestants ever have would be music, limited to flights between destination dates. Even then, as he has pointed out on his extremely popular blog, it’s case by case, and at the whims of the producers. Cellphones are taken away at the start of filming, and it’s not like these women are carrying Walkmans.
“They want their full focus 24/7 to be on the guy. Hence the reason you get so many meltdowns[.] You actually start believing you're falling in love [with] someone you barely know. It's essentially like Stockholm Syndrome.”
ABC declined to comment for this story, and several producers and former producers did not respond to request for comment.
So I took my question to the people who would know the restrictions of Bachelor Nation better than anyone: the contestants. They had varying accounts, which makes it seem as though the rules have changed over time, sometimes flip-flopping illogically. Though, all of them said that there was absolutely no access to internet and no exceptions to the mandate of surrendering a personal cellphone. (Contestants who have children are provided with a phone to use every few days, but can’t keep their personal devices.)
Two contestants from season 17 of The Bachelor, which starred Sean Lowe and aired in 2013, noted that the only books allowed on set were Bibles. Lowe’s religious beliefs weren’t marketed as central to the season, though his decision to remain celibate until marriage was often a point of discussion. ABC would not comment on specific claims from contestants, so it’s unclear why contestants would have been told that they could bring Bibles and no other books.
AshLee Frazier, who was eliminated in the penultimate episode of that season, told The Verge in an email, “No phone and no books. They were all taken. Music wasn't allowed, but some sneak it in and hope to not get caught. The only book[s] allowed are Bibles.”
Tierra LiCausi, known as the villain of that season, told The Verge via email, “Other contestants were allowed to read. Bible studies were held during my season, the girls would have weekly gatherings to study the Bible or discuss their beliefs [and their] religion (which was very interesting and unique to see) I definitely supported that and thought it brought a good vibe into the house. No magazines though.”
This rule may have been unique to Lowe’s season, as every other former contestant I spoke to recalled books being permitted. Wells Adams, who appeared on both Bachelorette season 12 and Bachelor in Paradise season 3 in 2016, said that he brought books with him to the sets of both shows. Whitney Fransway, who appeared in Nick Viall’s 2017 season of The Bachelor, said contestants on her season were allowed to bring “printed content,” including books and journals, but magazines were still prohibited. “They really try to keep us in the headspace of being in a bubble on the show,” she added.
Both LiCausi and Frazier said that “blackout days,” when the cast was allowed to take a day off from filming and rest, were the only times that anyone in Lowe’s cast could watch movies. Frazier remembered the production team choosing the film, which was Seth MacFarlane’s Ted.
Adams said contestants on his season of The Bachelorette were allowed to watch Interstellar in a hotel in Uruguay. None of the other contestants I spoke to remembered being permitted to watch a movie, though Tasos Hernandez, a contestant on Andi Dorfman’s 2014 season of The Bachelorette and the first season of Bachelor in Paradise, said that the restrictions on television were relaxed toward the end of his time on the former show. He said contestants were occasionally permitted to watch TV in hotel rooms between destination dates.
According to contestants, the rules around music have changed a lot, though not with any obvious progression. In general, the conditions for listening to music seem to be determined by individual producers, not the basic rules of the show.
LiCausi said her phone was held by a “chaperone” the entire time she was on the 2013 season of The Bachelor, but during flights and car rides some producers would lend iPads or iPods to contestants so they could listen to music: “The producers’ obligation was to keep us from being distracted from life itself and focus on what we were there for, to meet our future husband.”
Hernandez said iPods and books were both allowed on his 2014 season, “But whenever we were all together and filming we were not allowed to read or listen to music.” He also brought a guitar, and spent most of his downtime writing and performing new songs.
But Daniel Maguire, who appeared on both season 12 of The Bachelorette starring JoJo Fletcher and season 3 of Bachelor in Paradise, both in 2016, told The Verge in a phone call, “Once in a while, one of the producers might play a couple of minutes of a song, but they can’t have music playing often because they don’t have the copyrights. Plus they don’t want background noise and they don’t want people being distracted... On The Bachelorette, three or four guys brought guitars. Once in a while they played guitar. But [the producers] often didn’t want them to do that.”
Maguire said contestants were allowed to use MP3 players (but not phones) when running on the beach during Paradise filming, which Bachelorette season 12 contestant and Bachelor in Paradise season 3 contestant Wells Adams confirmed, saying he was allowed to use an iPod shuffle. Overall, contestants said they weren’t allowed to listen to music outside of exercise or travel time because producers don’t want anyone retreating from group conversation.
Maguire added, “If you’re sitting in a group, they won’t let you have headphones in. The number one reason is that they want everyone to engage with each other, they want everyone to be talking... They want dialogue and talking and discussion and that kind of stuff, they don’t want people to go off and listen to music.”
I asked Maguire if he thought this inability to seek private moments contributed to the drama on The Bachelorette or Bachelor in Paradise, reasoning that being forced to stay put and continue an uncomfortable conversation might escalate tense situations. He disagreed, saying “I think the biggest things for me were the lack of sleep — long nights, early mornings. In Paradise it gets very hot. And there’s a lot of alcohol.”
In any case, the rules around music seem to have swung back to Draconian measures in the last year. Fransway said contestants on her 2017 season of The Bachelor weren’t allowed “any personal electronic devices,” including music players: “We did always look forward to car rides when leaving home base because that would mean we did get to listen to music! We would only have to film for the first ten minutes when in transport and then we could listen to the music and dance during the car ride!”
Most of the contestants I spoke to didn’t remember being informed of any world or national news as a group. Maguire said, “Last year, when we were filming Paradise, someone brought up that there was a shooting in Orlando. They didn’t sit us down, but one of the producers or handlers or assistants kind of briefly just mentioned it to some of the people. For the most part they’re not saying anything, they kind of want us to be isolated and not have any distractions.”
Hernandez said his cast was not informed of any world news in 2014, but Adams remembered being informed by producers of two world news events in 2016: a terrorist bombing in Brussels and scores from the NCAA Final Four.
Nick Viall’s season of The Bachelor filmed during the end of the 2016 election season. Fransway said that contestants were provided with absentee ballots, adding, “The producers did keep us updated on what was going on with that if we wanted any information.”
Most access to media while filming the show seems to be granted via personal favors from producers. But there are a few other exceptions to the rules when a carefully placed piece of media can serve the plot of the show.
For example, on last summer’s season of Bachelor in Paradise, the contestants appeared to have easy access to just one book: Andi Dorfman’s tell-all memoir about her time as The Bachelorette and her subsequent relationship with Josh Murray. Murray was a contestant on that season of Paradise, pitted over and over against Nick Viall, who he’d originally bested in the contest for Andi’s heart. The book, and the emotionally abusive behavior described in it, became the crux of one of the season’s major dramas, following Josh as he pursued single mom Amanda Stanton and continued butting heads with Nick.
On JoJo Fletcher’s 2016 season, contestants coincidentally happened upon some tabloids about her and an ex-boyfriend in a barber shop in Uruguay. They were in English, mysteriously, though they served no purpose in particular other than making JoJo cry and giving the men an opportunity to virtue signal. Other than these expertly timed run-ins with the edge of the reality TV bubble, it seems ABC milks most of its drama out of contestants by setting them into a world apart, and providing little opportunity to step away from intense feelings. It makes sense, and it makes for good TV, but it’s also pretty extreme. It’s essentially a sensory deprivation tank, and Reality Steve’s Stockholm syndrome metaphor doesn’t seem far off.
Fransway said, “The fact that we did not have electronic devices or televisions to pass any down time ended up being one of the best parts of the experience. This is because all of the girls in the house got to know each other so well and so quickly. This is part of the reason why you see us girls developing lifelong friendships after the show.” She added that producers encouraged the girls to come up with games to play during downtime, and her group played a lot of charades.
There’s no air conditioning in the Bachelor mansion (the noise is supposedly too hard to edit around), and contestants are stuck there with nothing to do but drink and talk to each other and think about the Bachelor or Bachelorette. It’s easy to see how people get weird, fast. It’s expensive, isolating, and mind-numbing to be a contestant on The Bachelor or The Bachelorette. And, for the most part, all anyone has to show for it afterward is a verified checkmark on Twitter and a couple new pals. Once in a while, someone finds love, which is nice. Does love feel more special if you know that 30 other people went stir-crazy for two months so you could find it? Possibly, if you’re enough of a sadist to be into that kind of thing.
I appreciate a good opportunity to bond and form summer camp-inspired friendships, but the best way to do that is around a box of obscure, novelty-flavor Oreos and one of those Walmart bargain bin two-for-one John Hughes DVDs.
To ABC: please, out of respect for human life and dignity, have a movie night a week (not Mark Wahlberg). A dance party per day? It’s only decent.

LawBreakers, the competitive sci-fi shooter from Gears of War designer Cliff Bleszinski, will be released on August 15th, developer Boss Key Productions announced today at E3 during the PC Gaming Show. The game will come out on both PC, via Steam, and on PS4, where it will play with improved graphics and smoother performance if you have a PS4 Pro. At one point, LawBreakers was going to be a free-to-play release, but Bleszinski announced last year that the game would switch to a paid model, but with a price tag less than a traditional console game. We now know the retail price will be a modest $29.99.
If you’ve never seen footage of LawBreakers, all you really need to know is that is a mind-bogglingly fast-paced shooter that has players performing high-speed aerial maneuvers, precision aiming, and gravity-manipulating stunts. It’s a role-based shooter, similar to Blizzard’s Overwatch, so you’ll be able to pick a distinct play style and use those skills to try and dominate deathmatch bouts. Boss Key Productions held a closed, one-month beta starting back in April of this year, and it’s planning an open beta to start later this month.
Herman Miller, the furniture brand behind iconic designs like the Aeron chair, has teamed up with designer Yves Béhar for a new suite of smart office furniture launching today at NeoCon in Chicago. Named Live OS (yawn), the system uses sensors that can come preinstalled with Herman Miller desks, or retrofitted to any existing work surface. The sensors collect on-the-fly anonymized data which is then accessed through a dashboard, giving companies insight into how spaces are being utilized.
On fixed-height desks, Live OS only tracks when people are present, but when used with Herman Miller’s sit-to-stand desks, it acts more like a furniture Fitbit. Through an app, people set preferences for things like desk height, which can then be recalled at any connected sit-to-stand desk by tapping a button. Individuals can also set activity goals (i.e., stand for 12 minutes out of every 60). When it’s time to change postures, the desk will prompt the shift via a soft buzz. For those who aren’t used to moving while they work, the app will gradually progress toward set activity goals over a period of weeks.
Herman Miller says the system is encouraging people to move more frequently throughout the work day. "Our initial testing indicates that employees using Live sit-to-stand desks have become more active,” says Ryan Anderson, director of commercialization for Live OS, “transitioning between sitting and standing six times as often as previously recorded.”
It’s well-documented that sitting for the majority of the day comes with health risks, but studies have shown that most users with motorized desks stop switching modes after a few weeks. It’s a problem companies like Stir sought to solve back in 2013 with its Kinetic Desk (which features a screen built into the desk’s surface), but now appear over-designed and inelegant compared to Herman Miller’s Live OS app and sensor system.
Sensors that are bought individually cost $100, and the corresponding software subscription runs $36 per desk per year. The software for sit-to-stand desks with Live OS sensors costs $60 per year. Quartz notes that both these subscription prices lower with volume and longer contracts.
Get up, take a stretch, then check out Live OS in action on the Herman Miller website.
NASA has once again postponed the launch a small rocket from the coast of Virginia tonight, blaming cloudy skies at observation locations. The craft — a Terrier-Improved Malemute sounding rocket — was set to create multicolored clouds high in the sky for the purposes of studying our planet’s ionosphere and aurora, but the mission has been repeatedly scrubbed a short time before launch due to bad weather.
When the launch does eventually go ahead, the rocket will release canisters filled with various chemicals, forming green and red artificial clouds that may be seen along the US East Coast. It’s all part of a plan to study how particles move in the upper atmosphere, which could help us better study the aurorae and the parts of our atmosphere that are electrically charged by solar and cosmic radiation.
Don’t worry, the chemicals the rocket is releasing are in no way toxic to your health. They’re vapor tracers — gases that create visible clouds high in the sky. They’re made of barium, lithium, and tri-methyl aluminum. Those chemicals may not immediately sound familiar but you have likely seen them in action before — in fireworks. And fireworks usually release a whole lot more of these gases than a typical NASA mission, according to the space agency.
NASA has been deploying vapor tracers for a while now using sounding rockets, the small vehicles designed to take instruments to sub-orbital space, though NASA is testing out a new method for getting those vapor tracers into the upper atmosphere. Normally, the tracers were released directly from the rocket’s main payload, but this mission’s rocket is carrying up a specialized contraption called the “multi-canister ampoule ejection system.” After launch, the instrument will fling out multiple canisters filled with the tracers, in order to cover a wider area of the sky.
A total of 10 canisters, each about the size of a soda can, will be deployed about 4 to 5.5 minutes after launch, NASA says. The multicolored clouds they create will give researchers visual cues to help them track the movements of particles at high altitudes and test out if our models of these particle motions are correct. And these clouds should be pretty high up, too, since the canisters will release the tracers between 96 and 124 miles up. If skies are clear, the clouds could be seen from New York to North Carolina.
NASA has been trying to get this sounding rocket up for a while now. The launch was originally scheduled for May 31st, but it has been repeatedly postponed due to bad weather. The space agency also tried on the evening of June 11th and 12th, but launches were canceled, first due to wayward boat within the launch range, and then because visibility was too poor for the rocket’s tracers to be seen from observation stations. Tonight’s launch was slated to get off the ground sometime between 9:04PM and 9:19PM ET, but was scrubbed when the clouds didn’t clear up in time.
Ooblets is an upcoming game that was announced earlier this year at GDC 2017, and at the PC Gaming Show at E3, it debuted a new trailer for the absolutely adorable RPG.
If you missed the original Ooblets announcement, the game is basically a three-way cross between Pokémon, Harvest Moon, and Animal Crossing. As the trailer shows, instead of going out into the world and capturing Ooblets in battle, you’ll nurture and grow them in your garden. Your Ooblets can then battle other Ooblets in turn-based combat, similar to the Pokémon games, and, as the new trailer shows off, you’ll also be able to collect items and decorate your house while interacting with characters in your neighborhood.
But the charm of Ooblets doesn’t just stem from its mix of classic game mechanisms — it’s the style of the game that makes Ooblets great, with everything rendered in colorful pastels and an aesthetic that can only be described as incredibly cute. While Ooblets is getting published by Double Fine, the game is almost entirely the work just two developers: Rebecca Cordingley (who does the art and programming) and Ben Wasser (game design and writing). Cordingley is also running a Patreon for fans who want to more directly support and keep up with the development of the game.
Ooblets is expected to release sometime in 2018 for Xbox One and PC.
The white nationalist alt-right is upset about Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus, a game about fighting Nazis who control America in an alternate 1961. No one is surprised by this reaction, and coverage of it is one part schadenfreude, one part reminder that the new white supremacy hasn’t strayed far from its horrific roots. While these reminders are useful, the fact that Bethesda made racists mad is less interesting than watching the entire saga play out in the trailer’s YouTube comment section.
Like many unmoderated comment sections, the Wolfenstein II trailer is the purest argument against the notion that a marketplace of ideas will improve the world. It’s a free-for-all between people who don’t know or care about each other, can’t figure out who’s serious, and are having their entire debate under a video about a man named “B.J. Blazkowicz” who’s been fighting cyborg Nazis since before many of them were born.
Warning: graphic hate speech and offensive language ahead.
The saddest thing about Wolfenstein’s YouTube comments isn’t the offended white supremacists. It’s the fact that in 2017 you can write “I can’t wait to kill some Nazis in a video game” as though that’s a meaningful political stance — which is exactly what a lot of the most popular comments are about. The second saddest thing is that you’ll be proven right by someone named “Pepe Von Europa.”
Of course, the offended white supremacists are there, too, like this one, who appears to find the notion of Nazis losing a war unrealistic.
And a lot of racists are very upset about the fact that the game includes a black female character.
Beyond the overt slurs, you get dogwhistles like “Black Lives Matter overtone,” which is usually code for “acknowledging that racism in America exists.”
A few people were spoiling to take the alt-right / antifa street fights of the past few months online.
But who’s serious here? To some extent it doesn’t matter — an ironic Nazi is still a Nazi. But Poe’s Law is out in full force, so things that seem like obvious mockeries of the alt-right get taken for the real article as well.
Fortunately, some people got on the same Nazi-killing page after a while.
This confusion matters, because people use these comments to gauge the influence of the alt-right, and a parody that falls flat isn’t the same as someone using “it’s a joke” to say something they really believe. When I went to check a comment calling Nazis “a bunch of people you disagree with,” I saw a follow-up apparently disavowing the statement — both posts seem to have disappeared since then, so I’ve followed up with the user on Reddit to clarify.
And not every dumb statement about Nazis is part of a white supremacist resurgence. “Never mind Nazis, what about communism?” isn’t an alt-right position, it’s an embarrassingly canned old-school conservative talking point. And, as another commenter points out, not a great one in video games.
Even the replies from apparent national socialists are more complicated than “Bethesda made the alt-right mad.” Nazis have guilty pleasures, too, I guess.
Sometimes you find a little oasis of meaningful criticism, like this takedown of Nazis having a monopoly on national pride.
And the vast majority of people who responded to Pepe Von Europa found him ridiculous.
But really, the best lesson you can take out of the past days of Wolfenstein commentary is that most people aren’t Nazis, which is a depressingly low bar. Overall, this is a pretty good summary of events.
We’re hoping to get a chance to try Wolfenstein II at E3. Hopefully we’ll find fighting the Nazis there a lot more satisfying.
Uber’s board of directors met Sunday to mull over how to reverse the ride-hail company’s slow-motion implosion. Board members voted to unanimously adopt all the recommendations from a recent investigation into Uber’s culture of pervasive sexism and harassment. They also discussed the fate of two of the company’s top executives, CEO Travis Kalanick and senior vice president of business Emil Michael, in light of recent reports about the handling of the medical records of a woman in India who was raped by an Uber driver. (Michael is now leaving the company, while Kalanick is reportedly taking a leave of absence.)
By all accounts, Uber is in turmoil. No major investments have been announced since 2016, when Saudi Arabia said it would provide an historic $3.5 billion cash infusion. Morale within the company is at its nadir. Drivers are growing increasingly dissatisfied with their treatment. And a lawsuit from Waymo (neé Google) alleging the theft of its self-driving car secrets is still barreling toward to a jury trial.
Uber no longer has a COO, CBO, CFO, CMO or SVP of Eng and may temporarily not have a CEO.From autonomous cars...to autonomous company
But does any of it matter? Thanks to a torrent of leaks, the tech press has been breathlessly covering all that’s going on inside the company. It’s equal parts morbid and fascinating: a company that came to embody the disruption of Silicon Valley, brought low by its own hubris. Mike Judge, the showrunner of HBO’s Silicon Valley, couldn’t have written it any better. But the idea that the company is on the edge of dissolution seems wildly off base.
According to its most recent financial statements, Uber’s growth continues to outpace its losses, despite those losses seeming fairly huge on the surface. The company lost $2.8 billion in 2016, minus its misadventures in China — which is more than any startup in history. This has led some industry analysts to predict that Uber will never break even and will eventually fizzle out. But the company also doubled its gross bookings to $20 billion in 2016, and its net revenue (excluding China) was up to $6.8 billion. In short, the company continues to grow despite all its failings.
Of course, a majority of the most damaging news about Uber — from its flirtations with the Trump administration to revelations about its various secret surveillance programs (“Greyball,” “Hell,” etc.) occurred this year, and we haven’t seen the company’s 2017 financial statements yet. But Uber’s supporters predict that the company will continue to grow in spite of its many stumbles this year.
Bradley Tusk, an advisor at Uber, just penned an op-ed that declares “the reset has finally come.” The bad apples have been flushed out, Kalanick is considering taking a leave of absence to spend time with his family (which has just suffered a horrible tragedy), and the company is ready to push past its many scandals, he argues.
“No matter how bad the PR gets for Uber, consumers don't seem to care,” Tusk told The Verge in an email, “and Lyft still can't catch up.”
It’s not for lack of trying, though: Lyft continues to capitalize on Uber’s slow implosion by locking down a series of deals with major tech and auto companies. Its image as the safe, friendly alternative to Uber has helped it score a number of crucial investments for a valuation of around $7 billion. But compared to Uber, Lyft still pales in size and scope. The company still only operates in the US, while Uber is in 600 cities around the world. And Lyft’s staff is a tiny fraction of Uber’s: 1,600 employees, compared to Uber’s global workforce of 12,000.
Harry Campbell, a former Uber driver and blogger at The Rideshare Guy, agreed that as long as the company’s main product, its ride-hailing app, continues to outperform rival apps, the company will continue to dominate the market. “All of the bad press Uber is getting may hurt morale internally and complicate short-term efforts but riders are still getting from point A to point B safely and for a low price,” Campbell said. “Few riders even mention Uber's problems [even though] I'm sure they've read about it on the news. Most of their interactions with the company happen with its drivers.”
The #DeleteUber campaign from earlier this year exposed the company’s problems with attracting and retaining new users, but it also exposed the limits of consumer backlash. People are angry these days, but there’s only so much outrage to go around. Lyft saw a brief uptick in the number of new app downloads, but the company hasn’t been able to surpass Uber in any meaningful way.
“Consumers care about themselves,” Tusk said. “If the iPhone is amazing but Apple is awful, people don't give a shit.”
The real risks for Uber will happen internally with employee morale, recruiting, and partnerships — effects that won't be seen for years to come. Investors and partners are the ones who will be affected most by the long-term prospects of this company, and right now the return on those investments appears to be headed in the wrong direction.
“Chaos is bad for organizations, but it isn’t unusual,” said Evan Rawley, an associate professor of business at Columbia University. “Consider a firm that is the target of a hostile acquisition, or a firm that bungles a major acquisition, or a firm where a CEO dies unexpectedly. Those are all very chaotic situations. If the firm has a dominate market position chaos doesn’t necessarily impair their ability to dominate.”
“In the case of Uber,” Rawley continued, “the striking thing, to me at least, is that they need to adjust their strategy fairly urgently or they are going to have to go back to the capital markets. If they go to the capital markets in disarray, there will be a price to be paid.”
To be sure, it’s a neat trick — simultaneously imploding and growing — but it’s probably not unique to Uber. Consumers read the news, but they tend to make purchasing decisions based on their own immediate needs. Sure, Uber may be a cesspool of sexism and harassment, but the rides are cheap, thanks to Uber’s willingness to continue to subsidize trips to the tune of billions of dollars a year.
Michelle Thorpe, 43, is an advertising director from Des Moines, Iowa. She told The Verge that she prefers Uber because it’s easier and cheaper than a cab. To her, safety — not corporate intrigue — is the most important issue when considering which means of transportation to use. To that end, she sometimes screenshots the app after hailing a ride so she can share it with whomever is expecting her.
“The news is so sensationalized these days,” she told The Verge. “I only take in a small portion of what I hear, and with a grain of salt. I just don't put too much into it to be honest.”
Tomorrow, Uber plans to publicize the recommendations of the law firm it hired to investigate former engineer Susan Fowler’s allegations of sexism and harassment. Many people noted that her story, which went viral in February and helped kick off this entire crisis at Uber, was nothing unusual in Silicon Valley. To be sure, sexism, harassment, bullying, and other inappropriate behaviors are rampant in almost every sector of corporate America. Fowler’s move to go public was very important, and hopefully will encourage other people to speak out when they see wrongdoing.
What are the results? A handful of people were fired from Uber. Others left on their own accord. And the company will make a big show of changing its culture. But these types of changes can’t happen overnight. And as long as Uber continues to attract new users and expand into new markets, should it really “give a shit?”
You can now check if your neighbors have installed solar panels on their rooftops, thanks to a new feature in Google’s Project Sunroof. The free online tool has been around for a couple years, allowing users to check whether installing solar panels could cut their energy bill. Now, if you zoom in on the satellite map, a red dot will indicate homes and buildings that have solar panels.
Project Sunroof launched in 2015, even expanding outside the US earlier this year. The tool tells you how much sunlight hits your rooftop, how much you could save by installing solar panels, and gives you information on local panel providers to do the installation. The new feature now tells you whether your neighbors are already harnessing the power of the Sun.
The information is gathered by a machine learning algorithm that’s trained to recognize solar panels from satellite images. For now, the information is available on 60 million buildings in the US, but Google wants to add 40 million buildings in the next few years, according to The Atlantic.
The goal of the new feature is to encourage more people to take the plunge. Studies have shown that people are more likely to install solar panels if their neighbors have done so, especially if the panels are visible from the street. That information is now just one click away.
Adam West died on June 9th, and for Batman fans, his passing stings. West made a tremendous impact on comics and pop culture, embodying a character who’s so ubiquitous, he’s arguably the most important superhero of the modern era. In 2017, it’d be a struggle to find younger fans who’d claim him as their Batman. Comics culture has spent the last few decades running away from the camp that defined the Caped Crusader in West’s 1968 TV show. But as Bob Chipman argues in his latest video essay, it’s possible the version of Batman you view as definitive wouldn’t exist without Adam West, and fans should hold his contribution to the character’s history in higher regard.
I have a confession to make: I’ve actually watched very little of the ‘60s Batman series. What I know and love about the show comes from cultural pass-around. Fans my age talk about the show with a kind of cringing affection. For years, things like the Shark Repellent Bat Spray and the Batusi (which West claimed he invented) elicited a kind of “Man, aren’t you glad Batman is better than that these days?” response, as we held up Batman: The Animated Series and The Dark Knight as the gold standard for Batman stories.
The problem is, we were wrong. While Batman: TAS and The Dark Knight are excellent, the widespread idea that the grim and gritty, essentially fascist Batman is the one true version of the character is both tiresome and destructive. Propping up a deeply disturbed costumed man who beats poor people to a pulp, and claiming him as the ür-superhero, is pretty messed up. And I say this as a Batman fan. Recent work on the character hasn’t shied away from the contradictions of Batman’s character. Tom King’s Rebirth run has consistently shown Batman, as awesome as he is, to be a scared little boy in a costume, struggling to keep it together.
Adam West’s Batman sidesteps that entire concept in a way that present-day fans should see more often. West is straitlaced and silly in the role because comic book stories lend themselves to silliness, even when they’re trying to be taken seriously. There’s nothing wrong with that. Just take DC’s Flintstones comic series, which is simultaneously thoughtful and hilarious. (Seriously. You need to read that book.) West was fun, funny, and earnest — three words rarely associated with Batman these days — and older audiences could consistently get a kick out of his wit, while kids came away actually learning something.
What’s more, the show itself was subversive and smart, and it doesn’t get enough credit for, say, the way the show embraced the Flower Power movement at the height of the Vietnam War. And without ‘60s Batman, we wouldn’t have characters like Barbara Gordon Batgirl, who’s as important to the Batman mythos as Robin and the Joker.
Thankfully, appreciation for the West era is resurging. There was the Batman ‘66 comic series, with characters who recently crossed over into the Wonder Woman ‘77 series. There’s the animated Return of the Caped Crusaders, which featured the voice talents of the surviving cast. And then there’s The Lego Batman Movie, which did everything in its power to rib the grimdark version of the Dark Knight while also welcoming in camp and essential ideas like the Bat-Family.
We need more of this lighter take on Batman. The character looms large in a media landscape that’s positively drowning in superheroes, and for too long, there was one reigning interpretation of him. While Adam West was certainly typecast in the role for far too long, he represents a lighthearted approach to Batman that’s become refreshingly different in this day and age. It’s time to give him his due.
Atari has begun teasing a new product called the Ataribox, but right now, the company is being so vague that we have next to no idea what it is.
A website for the Ataribox first surfaced on Friday, holding a short teaser video that describes the device as, “a brand new Atari product years in the making.” It shows a device styled after the company’s retro consoles, with fake woodgrain and slatted black plastic on top. And that’s it.
The website for the Ataribox is so bare-bones that it almost looks fake. Official Atari channels don’t link to it at all, and the site appears to have been made with the free website builder Wix.
But a representative for Atari confirmed to The Verge that the Ataribox is real. However, an announcement isn’t planned just yet, so it sounds like the product won’t be unveiled at E3 this week, despite the timing of this teaser video.
There’s a ton of reason to be skeptical of anything Atari. The company is far from its glory days and, at this point, mostly just republishes classic titles like Rollercoaster Tycoon. Atari also licenses its name out for other companies to slap on their products, which is why an Atari-branded smart dog collar was announced last year.
For the Ataribox, we’re told that Atari itself is involved in its creation. It sounds like a partner is also working on the device in some way, but the partnership is said to involve more than just licensing the Atari name.
That makes the product sound a bit more intriguing, even if it’s still hard to imagine an exciting Atari device in 2017. It’s possible we could be looking at a new mini console — like the NES Classic — that plays retro games, but Atari partners already publish a bunch of these. So if this is something new, it’s not clear what Atari has in mind. Either way, Atari has a tough road ahead to make the Ataribox stand out.
In a first in the country, a Pakistani man has been sentenced to death for making “blasphemous” remarks on Facebook, according to prosecutors’ comments reported on by The Washington Post.
Although the exact words used are unclear, 30-year-old Taimoor Raza was accused of making negative remarks about religious figures, including the prophet Muhammad. The Guardian reports that the comments came up in a conversation about Islam with a man who, unbeknownst to Raza, was a government agent. The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan told the publication that Raza was one of 15 arrested by the government counterterrorism department last year on accusations of blasphemy.
In April, The Washington Post reported on the case of a Saudi man who was sentenced to death for comments about the prophet Muhammad made on Twitter.
Raza’s sentence represents an escalation in what’s already a major crackdown on social media and internet use in Pakistan. According to a Human Rights Watch report released last month, the government sent a text message to millions recently asking them to report blasphemy on social media. The country’s interior minister soon after ordered government officials to take action against “all those dishonoring the Pakistan Army through social media.”
“The Pakistani government’s crackdown on online expression will put dissenting voices at a greater risk in an already toxic environment,” Asia director at Human Rights Watch Brad Adams said at the time.

The Tuesday after Memorial Day weekend, Roambee co-founder Vidya Subramanian got to work at 7AM to find his company’s office in Santa Clara, California, ransacked. The burglars had made such a mess that it was hard to tell at first what was missing. There were monitors and other computer equipment gone, and the entire operations room had been tossed for anything that might fetch a good resale price.
“They’d jimmied the lock on just this one room,” Subramanian says. “It’s the room where we charge our devices, and needless to say there’s computer equipment everywhere, so they thought it was a good place to steal stuff.”
It seemed like a routine burglary, a midnight heist that left no obvious leads. Only one in eight burglaries are cleared nationwide, and there was no reason to think Subramanian’s office would be one of the lucky ones — until he took a closer look at what the burglar had taken. Two of the missing crates were full of his company's product: a device about the size of two cigarette packs, used to monitor GPS, Bluetooth, and altitude signals. Typically, they’re slipped into sensitive shipments like a pallet of pharmaceuticals, ensuring it isn’t tampered with as it moves from port to port. Subramanian thinks the intruders must have mistaken the bright yellow gadget for an external phone charger, not realizing what the device really did.
The burglars had stolen two boxes full of tracking devices. “At that point,” Subramanian says, “the light bulb went off, and we went into recover mode.”
The devices were fully charged and communicating with the home server at intervals. Roambee was able to tighten up that interval remotely — from once an hour to every five minutes — and get two detectives to track down the new lead. With a box of active homing devices leading the way, it was only a matter of time before they tracked down the haul.
It’s a frightening story for would-be thieves, but still a rare one. Nearly all electronic devices are now inextricably tied to the internet, often broadcasting a continuous and traceable electromagnetic trail — but the overall rate of electronics theft hasn’t declined much as a result. Phone-tracking systems on iOS and Android have made far riskier to steal smartphones — and theft attempts have plummeted as a result — but so far, smartphones are the exception. And there’s no equivalent drop in the theft of laptops and other electronics.
Similar anti-theft measures do exist for laptops, but they’re not as precise as trackers like Roambee or as widely adopted as phone-tracking features. Laptop-tracking programs usually rely on the internet, and only work when the computer is connected. That makes the signal more erratic, and gives criminals a lot more time to wipe the device. Even when it works, it only leads police to an IP address, which can be difficult to translate into a physical location.
There are also more reliable methods that have yet to gain traction. A tracking company called Latent Wireless targets laptops’ Wi-Fi signatures, creating a unique fingerprint based on the Wi-Fi networks stored on a given device. A computer’s Wi-Fi system is constantly sending out that list, trying to connect to familiar networks, which makes it easy for Latent to sense if a nearby computer is using a given signature. Once the right signature has been located, a directional antenna can be used to sniff out the source of the signal, a process that’s far more accurate than internet-based trackers. But so far, such systems haven’t gotten much traction with users or manufacturers.
Getting a specific location is particularly important for legal reasons. For police, most of this information is used as raw material for a warrant — convincing a judge that there’s probable cause to search a particular location for the stolen device. Those warrants require as specific a location as possible, which usually means pinning down a particular locker or storage unit, rather than just a particular block or building. In those cases, even consumer-grade GPS can fall short.
In Roambee’s case, the GPS unit led police to a storage facility in Oakland, California, where the Bluetooth signal was enough to point to a specific storage unit. When police looks inside, they found stolen gear from Roambee’s office and other burglaries dating as far back as January. Wednesday evening, Subramanian got a call from detectives saying everything but a few monitors had been recovered.
“They were super excited,” he says. “How often do you get somebody who steals a tracker?”
Samsung just announced that the unlocked North American version of the Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus are now available through more retailers, including Amazon and Target, along with some enterprise distributers. The best part, though, is that some retailers are offering steep discounts on the unlocked phone out of the gate.
Best Buy and B&H have the unlocked S8 64GB for $624.99, a phone that is listed for $756 at Verizon. Both stores also offer an unlocked S8 Plus for $724.99, a handset that goes for around $850 at carriers. Amazon hasn't listed the new domestic unlocked models yet, but I would expect it to match those prices. Best Buy's deal should run all week, but I don't know how long B&H will keep the price that low.
The domestic unlocked model has full support for CDMA and GSM-based networks, so it should work well on any major US carrier. International and dual-sim international versions are also available for slightly higher prices. The phones are also be free of the usually app detritus that carriers love to add, and Samsung usually is able to get OS updates to its unlocked models faster than to its carrier versions.
Over the last few years, Facebook has developed a well-deserved reputation as a copycat. Last August, Instagram introduced its take on Snapchat Stories, and the feature was then introduced throughout Facebook’s family of products. The company has previously “adopted” features from competitors — the like from Tumblr, the check-in from Foursquare, the marketplace from Craigslist, and live-streaming video from Meerkat and Twitter. What other services might the company copy within its own family of apps?
We’ve spent the past six months collecting patent applications that suggest bold new paths for the company. Some of these applications allude to radically new features — but many of them suggest Facebook is still up to its copycat tactics.
Facebook won’t say which of these features, if any, will result in a new product. A company spokesperson says Facebook files more than 1,000 patent applications every year, and most of the ones listed below are still in the application stage. “We often seek patents for technology we never implement, and patents should not be taken as an indication of future plans,” a spokeswoman said.
But the patent applications do hint at where Facebook might be heading.
The Facebook dating app: Patent No. 9,609,072
In March, Facebook was granted a patent for a system that would allow it to build a dating service into the site. The patent describes a way for Facebook to identify friends of friends who might be single, based on “other commonalities or shared experiences.” When you see someone you like, Facebook would let you ask for an introduction.
Facebook might also let you seek introductions to people with whom you do not have a friend-of-a-friend connection. The patent suggests a system for showing you potential matches based on shared experiences you select — the examples in the patent are “twins,” “cancer,” and “phone type” — and allowing you to filter your search by age, location, and other constraints.
Some elements of the patent, which was filed in 2014, sound as if they are simply describing Facebook’s current integration with Tinder. It makes several references to integrations with a “third-party service” and a “dating service.” It also suggests new avenues for Facebook, including one in which it offers users unspecified “rewards” for participating in the dating service. The patent also describes a way in which Facebook could show you possible matches both from Facebook and the dating service — potentially giving you access to Facebook’s entire user base, even if they don’t have a Tinder profile.
Anonymous messaging: Patent No. 20170111327
Facebook’s focus on making you use your real identity on the service is both controversial and lucrative. It’s also created an opening for countless apps focused on anonymous posting and messaging — companies like Secret, Yik Yak, and Whisper have raised tens of millions of dollars on the promise of building a secret social profile.
Those companies ultimately failed, but that hasn’t stopped Facebook from exploring the feature. The company filed an application for a patent earlier this year for a system that lets users establish anonymous communication between one another, and maintain that channel so they can continue their conversation without ever learning the identity of the person they’re talking with.
The anonymous communication described in the application is location-based: it allows you to contact people anonymously only if they are within a certain distance of you. In this, it closely resembles Highlight, an app that showed you limited information about people in your area and invited you to message them. (Highlight was not anonymous, though it optionally obscured many identifying details about the user.)
If you got along with the person you were anonymously messaging with, Facebook would allow you to send a traditional friend request, according to the patent. Or you could block them.
Highlight flopped, but there was a germ of an idea in there. Imagine walking into a crowded conference for your job and being able to see what you had in common with the people in the room — it made a certain amount of sense. And we might one day see something like it in Facebook.
The Facebook delivery app: Patent No. 20170116562
Peer-to-peer delivery is an idea that has intrigued companies from Postmates to Uber. Facebook has considered it as well. In this patent application, the company describes a way of turning shoppers into delivery agents.
Imagine you’ve stepped into a bakery to make a purchase. Across town, a neighbor places an order at the bakery. Facebook pings you asking if you’d like to make a delivery. You say yes, the baker hands you the order, and you deliver it to the remote customer. The patent suggests that you and the other customer would communicate via Facebook Messenger, possibly with your names obscured to protect your privacy. Upon delivery, the patent says you would receive a “reward,” presumably in the form of money.
Facebook describes all sorts of benefits that we might derive from such a system, including environmental ones (reducing car trips) and retail ones (stores can package fewer items for display, saving on costs for materials). “The combination of a merchant e-commerce system with a social networking system’s information and infrastructure may allow users to make repeated purchases easily, and may allow a social networking system or merchant to utilize user purchase information to reach out to users with marketing messages based on their behavior,” the company writes. Hope you like push notifications!
Emails in the News Feed: Patent No. 20170134329
Patent No. 20170134329
In November 2010, Facebook gave everyone an email address — their username, at facebook.com. But few people used it, and the company retired its email service in 2014.
A patent application filed in May suggests email could be coming back to Facebook — and you’ll find it in the News Feed. The patent appears geared toward Facebook at Work, the enterprise version of the social network that the company released last year. It describes a system in which the News Feed includes both normal stories from colleagues and external emails.
Diagrams show a carousel of emails that might appear inside the News Feed the same way the horizontal-scrolling “people you may know” module appears today. The applicationsuggests you would be able to respond to emails directly within the feed.
In addition to putting email in a new context, Facebook suggests it can improve on the current system by ranking emails by their importance. Other services do this to various degrees — Gmail’s category tabs, for example, or Outlook’s priority inbox. But Facebook suggests it might have more powerful signals to use to filter the inbox. Factors could include “past interactions of the user with emails, interactions of connections of users with emails, interactions of colleagues (based on org chart) with emails, affinity between sender and the user, and so on.”
Predicting your emotions: Patent No. 20170147202
Patent No. 20170147202
We’re increasingly comfortable allowing machines to alter our text based on input. Install Gboard on your phone, for example, and it will suggest relevant emoji for you automatically based on what you’re typing. The iOS keyboard will suggest words based on your typing habits.
This patent application describes a system in which Facebook analyzes your emotional state based on a number of factors, including your typing speed, the words you use, and even the amount of pressure you’re placing on the keyboard. (It also takes note of the accelerometer, which is useful if your emotions have led you to throw your phone.)
Once it has determined your emotional state, Facebook then suggests a new font and other formatting changes for your message, according to the patent. In one example from the patent application, someone has sent the text message: “Why does Kevin always have to be such a contrarian?” Facebook modifies the kerning — the spacing between letters — of the word “contrarian,” which makes it look as if the writer is emphasizing it. In another word, a simple text of “CONGRATULATIONS!” is blown up into a larger font than the message preceding it.
Boredom detector: Patent No. 20170126825
One of the most troublesome things about Facebook users, from Facebook’s perspective, is that they sometimes tire of the News Feed and click away to other apps or websites — where they are generally much harder for Facebook to profit from. Enter the boredom detector, a patent application filed in May. It describes a system in which Facebook determines that you are dissatisfied with what it is showing you, and quickly reshuffles the content to tempt you to stay.
First, Facebook measures the length of time between when you started scrolling through the feed and the last time you stopped. The longer you’ve gone without finding something that makes your thumb stop, the likelier it is that you’re bored. Then Facebook takes it a step further. The patent describes a system that tracks your eye position using your device’s camera, and watches to see when you lose focus on the glass for a certain period of time.
For all the detection technology involved, Facebook’s solution to boredom is rather humdrum: it takes a fresh look at all the items it could show you and re-ranks them. (It also makes room for any new items that have been posted since you began scrolling.) How users will feel about the company routinely tracking their eye movements, however, is an open question.
The hand-tracking virtual keyboard: Patent No. 20170147082
Patent No. 20170147082
In 2016 Facebook revealed Building 8, a secretive new lab designed to build new hardware. At F8, we heard about two of Building 8’s projects: a brain-to-computer interface, and an ambitious program to enable us to “hear” based on vibrations we feel on our skin.
A patent application filed in May suggests a fascinating new hardware project for Facebook: a device that tracks your hand movements to enable input, such as on a keyboard. Drawings submitted for the patent show a person sitting on a chair, typing in the air — with their movements resulting in keyboard input on a wall-mounted television several feet away. Another drawing shows the hand moving over a puck-like device placed on a table, which interprets the movements and broadcasts them to the television.
According to the application, the device projects light onto the user’s hand, and interprets its movements based on changes to the light. User interfaces that track the movements of our hands have been a sci-fi staple going back to Minority Report — and it seems like Facebook is now exploring that terrain as well.
Facebook takes on the Chromecast: Patent No. 20170111689
Patent No. 20170111689
Facebook’s intention to replace TV — and siphon away TV advertising dollars — is often stated by its executives. But what if existing TV could be made to feel more like Facebook? That’s the idea raised by this patent application, which proposes a system in which Facebook generates a hybrid video stream for TV consisting of the program you’re watching alongside content from Facebook. That could include the News Feed, individual posts, another video stream, chat messages, or ads, according to the patent. The central feature is what the patent calls a “social TV dongle” — a device that plugs into the TV and then enables new interactions with Facebook’s software on your phone. It looks like Facebook’s take on the Chromecast.
There’s a graveyard full of startups that have tried to make TV more “social,” usually by attempting to build standalone networks for TV fans where they could discuss what they were watching. (Does anyone remember GetGlue?) The apps crashed and burned when it turned out that most people don’t want to use a standalone TV social network while they watch — many of them simply browse Facebook.
That’s one reason a Facebook take on social TV feels more interesting than most, should it ever see the light of day. Facebook released a TV app in March. It seems plausible that the app might adopt features similar to the ones described in this patent over time.
Sony might not have a new console to unveil at E3 2017 this year (unlike Microsoft), but that doesn’t mean that its going to be a quiet year for PlayStation. Sony has announced tons of upcoming games for the PlayStation 4 over the last year, but we’ve yet to really see any gameplay footage or get some concrete information on any of them.
Not even counting any new surprises, expect to get more information on games like Uncharted: The Lost Legacy, The Last of Us Part II, the upcoming God of War sequel, Insomniac's Spider-Man game, Knack 2, maybe even Square-Enix’s Final Fantasy VII Remake. Plus, Sony has once again obtained exclusivity on DLC for Destiny 2, so expect that to make an appearance as well. (For what its worth, Hideo Kojima has said that his upcoming PS4 exclusive Death Stranding will not be making an appearance at E3 this year.)
And that’s just we we know about going in, and it’s almost guaranteed that Sony has a few new surprises up its sleeve. It’s E3! Anything could happen.
Want to keep up with the action as it happens? Here’s where to watch:
HOW TO WATCH:
Starting time: San Francisco: 6PM / New York: 9PM / London: 2AM (June 13th) / Moscow: 4AM (June 13th) / Beijing: 9AM (June 13th) / Tokyo: 10AM (June 13th) / Sydney: 11AM (June 13th)
Live streaming: Watch Sony’s live stream on the PlayStation Twitch channel. Alternatively, you can watch it on the company’s official PlayStation YouTube channel.
Live tweeting: Follow @Verge on Twitter for the latest headlines and specs as they emerge.
Instagram / Snapchat: Check out The Verge’s live updates on Instagram here and add us on Snapchat here, or by using our custom Snapcode below, for more PlayStation stories and E3 news throughout the week.
Official Police Business is a column and newsletter by reporter Matt Stroud about new developments in police technology and the way it’s changing law enforcement — think body cameras, cell-site simulators, surveillance systems, and electroshock weapons. Sign up to receive OPB in your email at officialpolicebusiness.com, or check for it here at The Verge.
Late last month, The New York Times published a piece, headlined “Hollywood-Style Heroism Is Latest Trend in Police Videos,” about body camera footage that depicts police officers as paragons of bravery. One video, from the Hamden Police Department in Connecticut, showed an officer pulling a troubled man away from the edge of a building. Another, from the Topeka Police Department in Kansas, showed an officer rescuing a drowning boy from a pond. These videos were not released at the request of journalists or civilians hoping to shed light on police activity. They were instead released by police employees as counter programming — a way to characterize cops positively when tales of “bad apples” overtook the news cycle. “The chief talked to me about how Topeka was really getting beat up in the news with some shootings, some homicides,” an officer told the Times. “Topeka really needed a good story.”
Cops deserve credit when they do good, but these positive police videos emerge as states work to keep less flattering videos hidden.
North Carolina, for example, passed legislation last year excluding body camera video from the public record, so footage is not available through North Carolina’s Public Records Act. That means civilians have no right to view police recordings in the Tar Heel state unless their voice or image was captured in the video.
Louisiana also exempts body camera video from public records laws.
South Carolina will only release body camera footage to criminal defendants and the subjects of recordings.
Kansas classifies body camera video as “criminal investigation documents” available only when investigations are closed. The Topeka Police Department may have wanted positive public relations with the release of its pond rescue video, but if a news outlet had requested that video through Kansas’ Open Records Act, that request would’ve likely been denied.
This opaque state of affairs was not how body cameras were originally pitched. Body cameras have been available to police since at least 2007 when Steve Ward, a salesman for Taser International, broke off from the company, now known as Axon Enterprise. He then formed his own body camera company, Vievu. But body cameras weren’t considered a necessary police tool until the aftermath of Michael Brown’s killing by police officer Darren Wilson in Ferguson, Missouri, in 2014.
As people around the world tried to piece together what occurred in Ferguson between a dead man and a living officer, civilians and police alike began to understand the benefits of body cameras. Representatives of Black Lives Matter called for more body cameras alongside major police organizations. It was a virtually unanimous agreement at first: body cams would hold both police and civilians accountable. But there was a pact underlying those mutual calls — a tacit agreement that taxpayer-purchased body camera videos should be available to taxpayers.
That pact was best explained by police leaders themselves. In a 2014 report from the Police Executive Research Forum, the group’s executive director, Chuck Wexler, wrote that “body-worn camera video footage should be made available to the public upon request not only because the videos are public records but also because doing so enables police departments to demonstrate transparency and openness in their interactions with members of the community.”
The report, released by one of the most respected law enforcement groups in the world, made it clear that body cameras could help police leaders build trust with the communities they served by documenting both the good and the bad. Flattering videos would have to be released along with unflattering ones, videos that exonerated cops along with videos that forced indictments. Transparency was worth it for everyone: civilians would be on camera if they failed to behave themselves in front of cops, and cops would be on camera if they did anything illegal or potentially criminal.
For a while, the rules governing how this would work — how police departments would build policies to let the public view videos and feel comfortable about having a bunch of cops act as roving surveillance cameras — were written by local legislators governing cities. There were good policies and bad, with some cities making it easier than others for civilians to obtain police video. (The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights and the tech policy group Upturn created a helpful policy scorecard to track which cities were doing what.) But as more police departments spent millions of dollars on body cameras and video storage, police unions, district attorney associations, and other law enforcement lobbying groups began to push for statewide laws restricting transparency. North Carolina, Louisiana, South Carolina, and Kansas, among others, have now instituted counter-transparency body camera laws. Even Missouri — home of Ferguson — classified body camera footage as a “closed record.” If another shooting like the one in Ferguson occurred, and the shooting officer was wearing a body camera, it’s almost certain the footage would be withheld from the public until after a trial.
Other states are now also looking to make body cam video extremely difficult to obtain.
In Pennsylvania, the state Senate recently passed Senate bill 560, which would mirror North Carolina’s opaqueness, and allow police to record inside civilian homes without restriction. It just passed the state House.
In Massachusetts, bill S. 1307 would mandate that body camera video “be kept confidential absent a court order.” It has been referred to the state Senate’s Joint Committee on Public Safety and Homeland Security.
Arkansas legislators made a smart decision by letting HB 1248 — a bill that would have made body camera video a “confidential record” — die in the state house, at least for now. If Arkansas residents — and citizens all over the country — don’t pay attention, it’s likely that bills like this one will reemerge. Then not only will body camera footage strengthen the surveillance state and fuel facial recognition and predictive policing systems, it’ll also be impossible for civilians to view it — which, for civilians, is the primary reason body cameras made sense in the first place.
It’s nice that body cameras have given police the opportunity to show the public when officers act heroically, but that’s not their core function. Their core function is to monitor police activity, and to provide public documentation when it’s needed. If that documentation shows police in a positive light, that’s wonderful — let it be known. But police departments shouldn’t be able to push out positive footage while burying the negative. As much as police might like to think otherwise, there are plenty of “bad apples” working inside the nation’s 18,000-plus police departments. Body camera footage should help to remove some of them from the bunch.
All over the country, state legislatures are making that difficult as they push to shield body camera footage from public records laws. That push may set up further opportunities for police departments in Hamden, Topeka, and elsewhere to tell “a good story” about their officers instead of a bad one. But for the public, the larger story isn’t a good one at all.

There are countless peer-to-peer mobile payment processing services nowadays, but few are as “instant” as they appear. Even though your Venmo app might say you’ve sent a friend the $15 you owe for that shared cab ride, it will take a day or two for the friend to withdraw and process the cash out to their bank account.
Zelle, a new payment processing network backed by more than 30 US banks, aims to make that process instantaneous. After six years in development, major banks are beginning to roll out the first stage of Zelle to let customers send and receive payments for free — regardless of bank affiliation — and allow instant withdrawals. Based on the Zelle website, it seems the intent is to process casual transactions, much like what Venmo and Square Cash are generally used for.
Backed by banks like Chase, Citibank, Bank of America, TD Bank, and Wells Fargo, Zelle doesn’t yet have a standalone app though it is forthcoming within the year, according to The New York Times. For now, Zelle acts as the backend network powering these individual partners to allow cash transfers between banks. You can continue using your bank’s app or online banking site to pay and receive funds, so the app component doesn’t seem necessary unless you prefer the social network-esque aspect of Venmo. According to the company, peers can send and receive money using just an email address or phone number. That also puts it in direct competition with Apple’s newly announced iMessage peer-to-peer payments for iOS 11.
Zelle is rolling out now to customers with a US-based bank account (different banks will begin to offer it at different times throughout June.) The full list of partners can be found here.
Microsoft has finally taken the lid off the Xbox One X — formerly known as Project Scorpio — and the company isn't shy about calling its new game machine “the world’s most powerful console.”
The One X is packing some serious firepower, with a custom eight-core AMD processor clocked at 2.3GHz, 12GB of GDDR5 RAM, and a 6-teraflop GPU with 40 compute units. Microsoft is proudly pointing out how the One X can support 4K HDR gameplay. (While Microsoft is tossing around the phrase “true 4K” a lot, apparently only some games will actually run in true native 4K, as opposed to checkerboard rendering.)
So how does Xbox One X compare to its biggest competitor: Sony’s PlayStation 4 Pro, which will be a year old by the time One X hits shelves?
Related
When it comes to hard specifications, Microsoft has Sony soundly beaten here. The Xbox One X has a faster processor, a more powerful GPU, and more memory than even the PlayStation 4 Pro. Specifically, the Xbox One X has 6 teraflops (which, in very basic terms, is how many calculations it can perform per second), compared to 4.2 teraflops on the PlayStation 4 Pro. And the extra boost in RAM — 12GB vs. 8GB — is also pretty significant, at least on paper.
But without some direct comparison of games on the two consoles, it’s hard to say how much the extra speed and power will really translate to meaningful improvement in performance. At the end of the day, both consoles claim to be able to offer 4K HDR gaming. Based on that criterion, Sony has a $100 price advantage over the One X with the $399 Pro, which isn’t exactly chump change.
Additionally, it’s worth considering a final piece of the equation: games. Microsoft showed off variety of new Xbox One exclusives at E3 this year, including Crackdown 3, PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds, Forza Motorsport 7, and a passel of smaller indie titles. But compared to Sony’s upcoming slate of God of War 4, The Last of Us II, Uncharted: The Lost Legacy, Death Stranding, Detroit: Become Human, Days Gone, and Insomniac’s Spider-Man game, there’s still a long way to go before there’s a compelling lineup of games that you’ll need an Xbox to play.
To help you make your decision, here’s how Microsoft and Sony’s latest hardware fare when put head-to-head, along with the how powerful they are relative to the original hardware. (Just for fun, the Nintendo Switch is also thrown into the mix, and it’s unsurprisingly almost comically underpowered in comparison.)
Google’s Gboard is already one of the best and smartest ways to communicate on a phone, given its direct link to Google search and all the company’s artificial intelligence-powered predictive and natural language capabilities. Now, with an update rolling out to the Android version of the app today, Gboard is getting even smarter. Google’s keyboard now recognizes hand-drawn emoji and will now predict full phrases instead of just the next possible word. The changes are expected to come to the iOS version at a later date.
This is all the work of Google’s ongoing AI research, which at a high level helps improve the company’s software by churning through mounds of data and learning over time using training techniques like deep learning and reinforcement learning. Thanks to tools like Quick, Draw!, a web game that guessed what you doodled on screen even when it was terribly drawn, Google has been able to make sizable advances in the image recognition department. This manifests itself in actual consumer products when Gboard is able to observe your crude drawing of a cat and suggest an accurate emoji to replace it.
The company’s AI research also helps improve Gboard’s natural language understanding. That way, when you type a phrase like “looking forward,” Google understands the context and will now suggest “to it” or “to seeing.” Past versions of Gboard were only capable of suggesting possible next words using predictive engines, so this is a subtle but powerful step up.
Alongside those enhancements, Google says Gboard’s search function will now show more results and also more easily link out to other apps like Google Maps and YouTube when appropriate. Google is also adding support for more languages — you’ll now get suggestions and swipable gesture typing for Azerbaijani (Iran), Dhivehi, French (Belgium), Hawaiian, Maori, and Samoan. Brand-new languages being added with the update include Dzongkha, Ewe, Navajo, Tsonga, and K'iche', though you’ll only be able to type in those languages and not use any of the more powerful AI-assisted features.
It’s been a month of gaming announcements for Microsoft with Game Pass, its new Xbox One game subscription service, and its newest (and smallest) games console, Xbox One X. Though the Xbox One X comes with a 1TB hard drive, the forthcoming slate of new titles plus Game Pass’ current allowance for direct downloads from a catalog of 100+ Xbox games means storage is a critical issue.
To remedy this, Seagate has debuted the Game Drive Hub for Xbox — an 8TB storage and multi-purpose USB hub designed and tested in partnership with Microsoft’s Xbox team. A massive jump from Seagate’s current Game Drive offerings (which currently cap at 4TB), this new iteration is meant for players with mammoth-sized libraries.
The Game Drive Hub works with any console in the Xbox One family of devices (Xbox One, Xbox One S, and Xbox One X), will hold over 200 games with ease, has a plug and play setup, and features two front-facing USB 3.0 ports, making it convenient to charge controllers or connect Xbox One accessories.
Also of note is the Game Drive Hub’s refreshed design, which beautifully sits alongside the Xbox One S (pictured above). However, it appears to only come in the white with black accent colorway, meaning it won’t match with the upcoming Xbox One X, only announced thus far in matte black.
Regardless, with the number of 4K titles ever increasing and Game Pass on the near horizon, its Game Drive Hub’s space that matters — even ultra-hardcore gamers should find themselves challenged to reach the 8TB threshold. Goodbye, days of deleting old games! (The current average game size is 35GB to 50GB.)
Seagate’s Game Drive Hub will be available this month at select Seagate resellers for $199.99.
Subscription-based bookmarking site Pinboard is a one-man operation, founded and maintained by former Yahoo engineer and slightly eccentric Silicon Valley figure Maciej Cegłowski. Last week, it managed to acquire its longtime rival, Delicious, for a paltry $35,000, in what appeared on its surface to be a standard story of dog-eat-dog.
But behind every boring story is a smaller, more interesting story. Delicious may be largely lost to the internet, but it leaves behind a valuable lesson on understanding users — specifically those that belong to a massive online subculture.
Delicious’ road to decline was mapped by The Daily Dot, tracing its downfall back to a series of bigger acquisitions. First, the site was bought by Yahoo in 2005, and redesigned in 2009 to make it cleaner and more appealing for Yahoo’s then-huge audience. Making the site’s millions of bookmarks easier to sort through made it more accessible, but it also turned off older users who were accustomed to hiding in the haystack.
“At the time,” Cegłowski told The Verge in a phone call, “I asked [Delicious co-founder] Joshua Schachter’s blessing to do a version of what it used to look like, and spin it off as a product. I tried to target it at people who really cared more about privacy and might not want to share as many of their bookmarks.”
In 2011, after Delicious’ value had plummeted, Yahoo sold the site to YouTube property AVOS, which redesigned it again, rendering it unusable for one of its largest established user bases — fan-fic writers. Slash fic, or fan fiction about romantic relationships between popular characters, is traditionally denoted with the / mark it takes its name from. E.g. Steve Rogers / Bucky Barnes, or Hermione Granger / Harry Potter. The AVOS redesign made it impossible to tag or search for anything with a / in it. A single symbol turned into a huge opportunity for Delicious’ growing rival, Pinboard.
Cegłowski was only positioned to notice this with the help of former Delicious community manager Britta Gustafson. She taught him about fandom, and how fans had once made Delicious’ platform work for them as a way to organize hundreds of thousands of pieces of fan fiction. “As community manager,” Gustafson explained to The Verge in an email, “I heard a lot of friendly and thorough bug reports from fandom users, and I got curious about what they were bookmarking. Learning about it showed me that the fandom community was really interesting, lively, and thoughtful — a whole secret world of women like me who liked internet stuff, feminism, queerness, science fiction. I was just an amused and impressed observer.” Gustafson began participating in fandom herself, and encouraged Cegłowski to embrace the fandom community.
Fanfic people, can you draft a list of your 'must have' features for me to look at, maybe as a Google doc? I'll implement what I can for you
As a token of thanks, Cegłowski has given her control of the now-useless Delicious social media accounts. She posts from them for fun, but notes that the end of Delicious as a fandom community is a bit of a soft spot. As with many corporate redesigns of once-niche products, “[It] hurts to see a thing you built turn into a weird undead zombie.”
To learn more about how and why fandom became central to Pinboard, and what Cegłowski thinks the tech industry can learn from this weird little business story, I spoke to him about his experiences meeting fans, “building a habitat” for them, and being upfront about taking their money.
This interview has been edited for clarity and length.
I saw that you’re going to preserve Delicious as it is but not allow new activity. Why not shut it down?
The biggest reason for me is that I’ve been friends with Joshua [Schachter], the co-founder, and a bunch of the early Delicious people since forever. My roommate when I lived in New York was Peter Gadjokov, who was the other co-founder. This was their beloved project and I didn’t want to see it disappear or be bought by someone who wanted to use it strictly for SEO or marketing stuff. I thought it was really important given the amount of history and the special affection that some people have for this site, that it not end up in a startup graveyard.
I’m an archivist. That’s what Pinboard is for, so the idea that these sites just go offline and take millions and millions of pages of bookmarks with them is one of the things I hate the most. I’m glad to get the chance to preserve something that changed my life in a number of ways.
Pinboard for a while had this competition with Delicious as a main part of its brand — on Twitter, you wrote a lot of jokes about Delicious, lots of taunts aimed at Yahoo or AVOS — now that that’s over, who’s next?
Yeah, it’s really weird for me, because especially at the outset I felt like I was a flea on the elephant. I was trying to suck a few dozen customers away from this enormous Yahoo-funded giant and the idea that I could not just compete with this site, but actually buy it, never entered my mind. So I’m in a bit of a Twilight Zone feeling.
At one point, Avos was spending $40K/month on AWS hosting, and their total *lifetime* revenue was $7K. I wish I’d made fun of them harder
I feel like I won the war so thoroughly that I don’t really know what to do next. I would love to take down Pocket and I would love to take down Diigo. Pocket is losing a lot of money, and Diigo is kind of a strange, weird longterm competitor. Actually, I think there’s room for a lot of different bookmarking sites and I like that there’s competitors, I hope that they stick around.
There’s all these little niche areas in bookmarking that I want to see be occupied by people like me, who are just kind of living from it. There are a lot of ways you can earn a living but there’s not a lot of ways you can make millions. Unfortunately what ends up happening is that people start with a niche, but then they decide they want to grow the business to be like Pinterest and that never seems to work, maybe once in a decade.
I saw that you tweeted something at Flickr, is that another rivalry?
It’s not so much a rivalry, it’s just a regret. There’s this whole generation of startups that got bought at the same time by Yahoo. Upcoming, which Andy Baio was able to buy back and he’s running it again, which is super. And then Delicious, obviously. And then Flickr, which was a pioneer and it was really a beloved website and it still kind of is. If you could have Flickr back the way it used to be and run competently, everybody would be on there right now. I think it would be wonderful if the old Flickr crew could get the site back and run it the way they wanted to.
Yahoo just doesn’t understand anything about the sites they bought years and years ago, so they might as well just give them back to people who know what they’re actually for.
Pinboard has a reputation for being a platform for fandom. Would you say the platform itself also has fans, in the way that like, Tumblr has fans?
There’s been fan-fic written about Pinboard, which I thought was awesome. I think that’s the litmus test. I don’t know if it goes that far, but fans have been really nice to me and they’ve responded in a very friendly way to my overtures so I would say I get along with them. I try to understand their specific needs and uses maybe more than some other sites do.
Since you’re pretty publicly the sole personality behind this site, do you have a lot of personal interactions with users?
For the last six months I’ve been running the Tech Solidarity group, which is a political activist thing. I’ve been having meet ups in different cities, trying to get tech people involved in areas where we can help locally with volunteering and also trying to do some broader political organizing in the tech industry. In the course of those meetings I’ve actually met a lot of Pinboard users and a lot of fandom people who use Pinboard. So that’s been a very funny side effect of this sudden political activism is that I get to meet people who use the site all over the country. Some people I’ve had Twitter relationships with forever, I’ll get to put a face on a Twitter account.
Could you give some specific examples of how you communicate with fans or collaborate with them?
The biggest example was this giant Google Doc they made for me in 2011. That was after yet another [Delicious] redesign that turned off a lot of essential fan features and they ended up just creating a collaborative design document that I could work from. So that was really the most amazing example for me, of cooperation. Whenever I see Pinboard users in fandom, we talk about things they’d like to see on the site or integrations. I really like the fandom community, they’re one of the most friendly groups to support that use Pinboard.
The more fans I can get on the site the better, just from a selfish perspective as someone who has to do customer support.
Fandom, generally speaking, is a little complicated in that people who are really enthusiastic about things also have very strong opinions. Do you ever find it hard to keep up with requests?
I find that people are really understanding about it being just my solo project. So even if I can’t get stuff happening that they want, they’re pretty patient. Hopefully there’s some credibility at this point. They know I’m going to keep the site going without changing it majorly. I’m going to respect the way that people use it now and not try to go for millions of dollars or anything like that.
Pinboard anticipated these complaints that fans had about Delicious. Can you explain a little bit about how you came to know about these things? Were you personally involved in fandom?
No, no, I was a terrible person. I didn’t know anything. I made fun of fans and fan fiction. I was awful and Britta Gustafson, when she was Delicious community manager around 2005, told me all these cool tagging things that fans were doing on Delicious. The tagging system is really freeform, it’s not designed to do the things that fans made it do, but by collaborating they came up with all these inventive things that made it possible to search for fan-fic. I was just amazed by the level of collaboration and inventiveness on their part, so I remembered that. When I started Pinboard I really wanted to get the fandom community onto Pinboard, because I thought it was really cool the way they just built out the site to do their own thing.
When I saw that they were freaking out about the redesign that AVOS was doing, that was kind of the moment. I already knew who they were and how they used the site, I still didn’t realize to what extent they were a subculture of their own with their own lingo. Britta helped me, I learned that. I give her all the credit for broadening my mind about how fandom was using these sites. I’m a really big fan of the open web, of people using the web to create things and not just looking at stuff. So from that perspective I think fandom is one of the most amazing phenomena out there and I’m honored they’re using my site.
When they did that doc for me I was amazed at the level of friendliness and cooperation. I just had never seen anonymous users working together in that kind of spirit, and only later did I learn that fandom is predominantly women. That’s another reason that I’m happy that Pinboard has this subculture using it. When I was back in a frame of mind of being like “Oh, fandom, haha,” [Britta] was like “Well, you know, fandom is an underground training course in feminism for a lot of young women.” You go into it because you’re into the stories, you’re into the writing, but as a side effect you learn a lot of stuff from other women in the community. That stuck with me.
Just a gentle reminder to fanfic people - / tag works just fine on Pinboard :-)
The reason this story is so interesting to me is because I think lots of entertainment brands have already recognized the benefit of having large fanbases but I haven’t seen it as much on the tech side or developer side. Is that something you’ve noticed?
I live in San Francisco, and there’s a really good website that tells you how to build a garden that attracts bees. I didn’t know this, but there’s dozens of species of wild bees, not just the ones we’re used to, but lots of odd-looking little ones. They have these instructions on how to make a bee-friendly garden and if you do all this stuff they’ll show up and make their hives. I’ve thought about Pinboard as trying to create a habitat for different kinds of users and make it useful, and then letting things happen on their own.
What I’ve seen with fandom is that these tech companies really try to co-opt them. They try to lock them into using platforms a certain way. Amazon made this attempt to have people doing fan-fic, basically moving fan-fic onto the Kindle ecosystem, but then they had all these rules. You couldn’t use certain characters in certain ways, they basically tried to rule it with a heavy hand. Fans have been burned a lot by people trying to get money out of them, in those ways and control what they do. Of course, I’m trying to get money out of them but hopefully I’m being transparent about it. I’m really adamant that I don’t understand the ways people use my site and I want to learn from them.



Nearly 30 percent more people worldwide died from being obese in 2015 than in 1990, according to a new study published today in the New England Journal of Medicine. A quarter-century ago, about 50 deaths out of every 100,000 were related to being overweight. As of 2015, the number is now 54 out of every 100,000.
Researchers analyzed the health data of over 68 million people in 195 countries. First, the team estimated how common being overweight or obese was among both children and adults from 1980 to 2015. Next, they analyzed the cost and health impacts related to high BMI from 1990 to 2015. This means taking into account both deaths and disability-adjusted life-years, or the number of years that you lost or lived with disability due directly to a high BMI.
Since 1980, obesity has doubled in more than 70 countries. In 2015, 5 percent of children overall were obese, and 12 percent of adults. Peak obesity rates were in older adults over 50, and women were more likely to be obese than men in every age bracket. Also as of 2015, there are about 108 million obese children and 604 million obese adults worldwide. There are fewer obese children than adults, but children are getting obese faster, with the rate of obesity growing especially quickly among children in countries like China and Brazil.
The results show that obesity caused four million deaths in 2015 alone, most of these due to cardiovascular disease. (This represents 7.1 percent of the deaths from any cause.) Cardiovascular disease related to high BMI was the leading cause, with chronic kidney disease being the second.
All this said, even though the overall rate of death is increasing, there isn’t a very significant change when you adjust for the age and population. In other words, even though there are more people dying overall from being obese, obese people are healthier and living for longer years than in the past because of better medical care. But in this case, living longer means more years living with obesity and associated diseases, like diabetes. For instance, in 2015, high BMI led to people worldwide living a total of 28.6 million years with a form of disability.
Overall, the authors conclude that obesity remains a growing public health problem, and one that we need to continue keeping track of and fighting.
Microsoft is bringing its colorful custom Xbox controllers to Europe today. The expansion means Xbox One owners in the UK, France, and Germany can now order custom controllers from the Xbox Design Lab. Custom designs are available in the UK starting at £69.99 or 79.99 euro in France and Germany, with free shipping. Microsoft says its Xbox Design Lab will arrive in more European countries this summer.
Microsoft first launched its Xbox Design Lab in the US last year. The custom Xbox controllers include Bluetooth for better range, and a textured and grippy back panel. You can customize most of the controller parts with different colors, including the front and back panels or the shoulder triggers and D-pad. Microsoft says there are around eight million possible color combinations, and you’ll also be able to laser engrave some text on the front for further customization or to mark your Gamertag on your controller.
Microsoft is also adding Black rubberized grips to all Xbox Design Lab controllers today, alongside four new color options and 11 new thumbstick colors. There’s even new metallic finishes or D-pads and triggers, and until June 19th Microsoft is offering a free engraving.
Lenovo has unveiled the official details on its new entry-level Moto phones: the Moto E4 and E4 Plus. As rumored, the E4 Plus does indeed come with a 5,000 mAh battery and a 5.5-inch HD display. The company claims that battery size can last nearly two days without charge — something we’ll have to test ourselves when we get the chance. The E4 Plus is also equipped with a 13-megapixel rear camera, a 5-megapixel selfie cam, and a quad-core processor.
The smaller Moto E4 shrinks the screen size down to a 5-inch display with a 2,800 mAh battery, and a 8-megapixel rear camera. The front-facing camera remains at 5-megapixels. The E4 comes in black or gold, while the E4 Plus is offered in an additional color: navy. Both phones come in a metal finish, and ships with Android Nougat.
The E4 and E4 Plus are available for $129 and $179 respectively, and the company says they will be sold in “various countries.” (Lenovo didn’t specify which.) The E4 is also expected to be sold as an Amazon Prime Exclusive Phone, but pricing and details on that version will come at a later date.
Walt Mossberg is retiring this year — he’s already written his last column, hosted his last Code Conference, and taped the final episode of Ctrl-Walt-Delete in front of a live audience in New York. But Walt’s also assembled an impressive collection of notable gadgets over his two-decade run as a reviewer and columnist, and we asked him to talk us through some of the more notable items as he cleared out of his office.
This isn’t everything — there’s far too much for that. But there’s nothing quite like Walt talking about gadgets and what they mean, and we tried to pick a few that defined their moments in a way few products now seem to do.
It’s been incredible having Walt on The Verge team, and we’re all going to miss his insight, wit, enthusiasm, and charm. I hope you enjoy this look at him doing what he does best: explaining technology to people who love it just as much as he does.
—Nilay Patel
Amazon announced the first Kindle in November 2007, the same year Apple released the first iPhone. But the $399 gadget was from a different planet in terms of design, with a chunky asymmetric case, angled hard plastic keyboard, and a reflective hardware scroll display with a dedicated wheel. “If someone had put this on Steve Jobs’ desk, they’d be fired,” says Mossberg. But the Kindle set off an e-reading revolution — modern Kindles start at just $79, with everything from the first design but the E Ink screen stripped away.

The Radio Shack TRS-80 Model 100 — or Trash 80, as it was affectionately called — was one of the first laptops. Or first tablets, if you squint. It ran on four AA batteries, and it was routinely given to journalists in the field because it had a built-in modem that could send files back to the office through an acoustic coupler for a landline phone handset. Mossberg used his TRS-80 all over the world as a reporter and editor for The Wall Street Journal; as a deputy bureau chief he bought one for every reporter in the bureau. “I honestly think you could draw a line from this to the iPad,” he says.
The Motorola StarTac was arguably the first mobile phone that was also a fashion and cultural icon. The small size and flip design inspired by Star Trek made it an object of desire, and it popped up in movies and TV shows for years. It wasn’t a smartphone — it just made calls. “Carrying this made you cool,” says Mossberg. Flip phones might have all but gone away, but the StarTac lives forever.

The ThinkPad 701 is one of the most iconic laptop designs in history — so much so that it’s sitting in New York’s Museum of Modern Art. To accommodate a full-size keyboard, IBM’s designers developed an ingenious “butterfly” folding mechanism that folded the deck into the case when the lid was closed, and expanded it when the hinge was opened. “This solved a very important problem that people in the early days of laptops that people had.” A few years later, the advent of larger screens meant that full-size keyboards fit well under the screen, and the butterfly keyboard was retired. But it’s still a marvel.

What else is there to say about the iPhone? Apple’s touchscreen wonder changed the course of technology and culture, setting off the mobile revolution. “Smartphones are the new personal computer,” says Mossberg. A decade later, Apple is among the most valuable companies on the planet, and the iPhone is 70 percent of its business. And now we’re all waiting for the 10th anniversary iPhone to blow us all away once again.




While Sony, Microsoft, and Nintendo will all be holding press conferences for their consoles, PC gamers aren’t missing out on the fun at E3 this year. The PC Gaming Show, returning for the third year and hosted by PC Gamer, is designed to give computer-bound gamers a place of their own at the show.
PC Gamer has said that this year’s show will include an increased focus on VR and e-sports content, which makes sense given the surge in popularity of those two fields over the last year.
Intel is a major partner for the PC Gaming Show, expect to see some news about the company’s new Core X line, and especially the ultra-powerful Core i9 processors. Additionally, the incredibly popular last-man standing shooter Playerunknown’s Battlegrounds will be making an appearance in some fashion, possibly to announce new features or gameplay modes. And Microsoft is showing up as well, presumably to talk more about its ongoing Xbox Play Anywhere initiative to bridge the gap between Xbox One and Windows 10 gamers.
Here’s how you can keep up with all the action:
Starting time: San Francisco: 10AM / New York: 1PM / London: 6PM / Berlin: 7PM / Moscow: 8PM / Beijing: 1AM (June 13th) / Tokyo: 2AM (June 13th) / Sydney: 3AM (June 13th).
Live streaming: Watch PC Gamer’s live stream on its Twitch channel.
Live tweeting: Follow @Verge on Twitter for the latest headlines and specs as they emerge.
Instagram / Snapchat: Check out The Verge’s live updates on Instagram here and add us on Snapchat here, or by using our custom Snapcode below, for gaming stories and E3 news throughout the week.
From Microsoft’s perspective, the Xbox One X, the new console built to take advantage of the rapid growth of 4K televisions, is a luxury item. Its diminutive shell contains an abundance of RAM, teraflops, and other expensive bits. For that reason, $499 is a logical price for Microsoft to go with, but it isn’t a competitive one.
As my colleague Tom Warren noted in our original story, the Xbox One will cost $100 more than its direct 4K console competitor, the PlayStation 4 Pro. Technically, the Xbox One X delivers native 4K, while the Pro mostly offers something approaching that resolution. But in both cases, it depends on the game. And some PS4 Pro games are in native 4K, though they tend to be smaller indie titles and see what I mean! “Technically” is a messy word — and that spells trouble when it comes to clear, concise marketing.
Ironically, Sony spent the past year learning the problem with “technically.” Technically, its PS4 Pro is superior to the more affordable PS4 Slim, but that depends on the game you’re playing, whether its developer has provided additional patches and optimization, and if that patch is even available at the time you play that game. And though each PS4 Pro-optimized game is technically better than the same experience on PS4 Slim, the improvements are unique from game to game: some upgrade resolution and increase frame rate, others add additional post-processing. PSVR games benefit, in some vague capacity, from the added PS4 Pro power. But Sony has yet to find a compelling way to explain or showcase how and why any of this works in a 30-second hype reel that airs in the middle of a playoff game or ahead of a blockbuster movie.
Sony hasn’t revealed specific sales numbers for PS4 Pro (though we know, vaguely, that one in five PlayStation 4s sold since November have been a Pro). The company has, however, provided some comment on the people who made the upgrade. It’s helpful in understanding who Sony and now Microsoft are targeting with the pricey machines.
"People just want the best," PlayStation Europe boss Jim Ryan told Glixel. "Maybe they just want to future-proof? I think we see the same thing from Apple customers too — there are people that want the best that you can buy."
Microsoft is angling into this concept of people who want the best, simply because it is the best. At its press event, Microsoft employees wore shirts that read “I witnessed the most powerful console ever.” But how will the company show the average fan or newcomer — the person who doesn’t watch side-by-side graphical comparison videos at Digital Foundry, the YouTube channel Microsoft partnered with for the reveal of the system’s specs — that the One X is better and more powerful than the PS4 Pro?
Microsoft has a handful of advantages. Unlike the PS4 Pro, which uses a trick called checkerboarding to create 4K-like resolutions, Microsoft can confidently say that many games will run in native 4K resolution on the Xbox One X. It also has a UHD Blu-ray drive, a point of pride for the company since Xbox One S. And it promises the hardware will provide a performance boost to all games, though it hasn’t provided specifics.
But these improvements largely hinge on the ability of consumers to notice the difference between ultra-high resolutions and merely very high resolutions. And it assumes they care. Worse, most gamers still don’t have 4K TVs, and most commercials on television and the web aren’t shown in 4K, making differentiating one 4K game from another an even more absurd task. Even for those that do have a 4K set, HDR often makes a bigger difference than 4K resolution itself — and Microsoft’s $249 Xbox One S already supports it with HD games, 4K streaming apps like Netflix, and UHD Blu-ray discs.
The “most powerful console” sounds good, but when it’s hard to provide a concise explanation of its superiority — let alone demonstrate that superiority — the majority of marketing will fall on something else entirely: the games. Whether or not Microsoft has enough games for the Xbox One X to best PS4 Pro amongst casual gamers... I’ll leave that for you to consider.
Ultimately, if Microsoft wants to leverage the Xbox One X to not just live alongside PS4 Pro, but challenge it, the company needs to find a way to get customers to care about the nitty gritty of resolution and graphics.
And is that really the direction Microsoft and Sony want to go? Encouraging their player-base to obsess over graphical minutiae? If so, I suspect Microsoft and Sony may find themselves fighting not against each other but the rise of PC gaming. The companies already offer excellent, comparably affordable consoles. But if they perceive luxury to mean the best graphics, they’ll find themselves competing with computers that not only offer better resolutions, but more graphical customization options, cheaper storefronts, and freedom to upgrade.
If players want the best possible graphics, they have PCs. And if they want all the features of the Xbox One X without the promise of 4K gaming, they can buy an Xbox One S at half the price. It’s the most powerful console ever; but is it the right console for you?
Meet Xbox One X, "the most powerful console ever made."
USA Today is reporting that Andy Rubin’s Essential Phone has a launch partner in the US: Sprint. That’s not exactly a surprise, when we asked the four major US carriers whether they’d support the Essential phone, three of them offered tepid statements saying it would operate just fine on their network, but Sprint said that “More specific information will be provided at a later date.” That was a hint, it turns out.
This launch “exclusive” isn’t quite as exclusive as others, because the Essential Phone is packed with enough radios to work across multiple networks — and Essential will be selling the phone unlocked.
Rubin said at the Code conference that he’s trying very hard to not install carrier apps on the Essential Phone when it launches. He didn’t go so far as to flat-out to commit to no “Craplets” (as Walt Mossberg called them at Code), however. That’s not a surprise, either — it’s very difficult for any Android manufacturer to get their phone in stores without carrier apps. If Samsung can’t pull it off, Essential probably can’t either. The good news is that Sprint is actually better than some of its competitor when it comes to lading on unnecessary apps.
Here’s the big question: why Sprint? Here’s what Essential president Niccolo de Masi told Ed Baig: “We like to bet with where we think the market is going as opposed to where the market was ... we are partnering with the network of the future.” That seems... like not a great example of a new companies ability to predict where the market is going.
The decision to partner with Sprint feels off not just becuase it’s fallen on hard times lately, with T-Mobile hard-charging and AT&T and Verizon big-footing. It feels off because it might cause some people to remember another innovative phone that wanted to take on the dominant smartphone players as a new entrant with new software and hardware tricks. That phone was the original Palm Pre, and it didn’t go so well.
Things are very different now. The Essential Phone hopefully won’t have the same launch bugs and performance issues that the Pre had. More importantly, it’ll also be available unlocked for any network, something that wasn’t the case with past exclusives.
This is probably more about advertising than anything else. Sprint is going to put marketing dollars behind the Essential phone. We shouldn’t have long to wait until we see what that campaign looks like, as Rubin has said that the phone should be launching within the month. It will cost $699.
It's 2017, so I doubt OnePlus needs an introduction anymore, but let's do it one more time just for fun. OnePlus, an offshoot of big Chinese phone maker Oppo, has been garnering global hype and adulation for its "flagship killer" phones since its first device launched in 2014. Taking a minimalist approach to both price and Android augmentations, the company has been delivering some of the best-value smartphones in recent times, and last year's OnePlus 3 and 3T models were easily among my top recommendations. If your budget doesn't stretch as far as a Google Pixel, Samsung Galaxy S, or Apple iPhone, I'd point you in OnePlus' direction without hesitation.
We're just over a week away from the unveiling of this year's iteration from OnePlus, the OnePlus 5, and my excitement for it is building due to two related reasons: 2017 has so far been a weird year for phones, with a bunch of basic usability issues cropping up, but I have the sense that OnePlus will be the one company to overcome those problems and just deliver an uncomplicated, good Android smartphone. Like it's always done. In other words, my biggest wish with regard to the OnePlus 5 is for OnePlus to not shoot itself in the foot.
But let's run through a few of the missteps I've noticed this year and the opportunity they allow for OnePlus:
Table stakes for any smartphone since the latter half of 2015, the fingerprint reader has gone through many variations and iterations, and it has almost inevitably been spoiled by companies overthinking the whole thing.
The worst offender on this front in 2017 has without doubt been Samsung, with its offset, rear-mounted fingerprint scanner on the Galaxy S8. I've used the larger S8+, where the reader is utterly unusable due to its position, and I've been using the regular S8 for a few weeks now, and it's become a habit for me to hit the camera lens first, then slide over to the fingerprint reader, and then wait a couple of ticks for it to register.
LG's G6 is unsatisfying to use for a similar reason: its fingerprint reader, also on the back, is quite tiny and unintuitive to reach, slowing down an action that I perform probably a hundred times per day. Sony puts its fingerprint reader on the side of the phone, which is also suboptimal.
The OnePlus 3 is still the fastest-unlocking phone I've ever used. The moment my finger makes any contact with the home button, the homescreen is up and I'm able to get on with the trivialities of checking Twitter or the serious business of... checking Twitter. (As an aside, I also found the action of double-tapping the power button to activate the camera worked most quickly and reliably for me on the OnePlus 3, it's just a very well executed design). I want more of that instant responsiveness in the OnePlus 5.
I'm going to pick on Samsung again here, in spite of the new generation of TouchWiz being really very good. Samsung's new Bixby virtual assistant is a persistent nag throughout the Galaxy S8 interface, and you've basically got no choice but to create a Samsung account and log in, just to be able to use the camera without being constantly reminded to activate Bixby. HTC still ships its phones with annoying preloaded apps like News Republic, and don't even get me started on the amount of bloatware the LG G6 is saddled with in Korea. We pay a lot of money for smartphones, is it too much to expect to have a measure of control over the software running on them?
At a time when everyone else is getting bent out of shape chasing ephemeral differentiation (HTC has its own assistant, on top of Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa), OnePlus has always played it straight. The OnePlus approach of leaner and cleaner has been a winning one, helping it produce devices that just feel faster by virtue of having nothing slowing them down. To a great extent, this is just exploiting the inherent strengths of Android and passing it off as minimalism, but this marketing has resonated with users. And it just makes sense: the company is giving people one of the fastest Android experiences while keeping its software development costs in check.
This is where I'm starting to worry that OnePlus might perhaps give in to the same temptation as everyone else. The company's phones have always been about flagship quality at sub-flagship prices, but when I look at the leaked image of the new 5, with its dual cameras and iPhone-esque aesthetic, I'm starting to suspect OnePlus might be looking to enter the premium price range. And I think that would be a mistake.
Huawei tried to premium itself up this year with the P10. I'm not sure how that venture's panning out in terms of consumer sales, but it was widely panned by critics. Huawei's 2016 strengths were almost indistinguishable from those of OnePlus: really solid design, excellent fingerprint reader, smooth and responsive performance, and a killer price. I still consider the P9 an outstanding choice for anyone not too fussed about keeping up with the latest specs. But the P10 hiked up the price, added design flourishes that weren't necessary, and yet omitted the oleophobic coating that should be absolutely standard on every phone. I doubt OnePlus would make that last mistake, but I still think the company's price differentiation is an essential element of its appeal.
If you create a loyal fan following on the basis of being more affordable than everyone else, but then go up in price, those same fans might simply lack the budget to stick with you.
There's a reason why, in spite of my praise for the OnePlus 3 and 3T, I'm not using either as my main phone, and that reason is the Google Pixel's camera. Yes, I sound like a broken record at this point, but the Pixel truly redefined my expectations of what a mobile camera can do, and now I've become an extremist about it. The iPhone is absolutely not sharp enough for me anymore, the LG G6 is decent but overprocesses everything, and the Galaxy S8 is just about good enough to keep me interested. HTC's U11 has shown itself to benchmark well, and I'd love to spend some extended time with it to verify its performance. This landscape is wide open for a company to come in and assert itself as the Pixel's equal, and OnePlus' partnership with photography experts DxO (they of DxOMark fame) gives me cause for cautious optimism.
More than anything, OnePlus needs to have faith in the strength of its own designs and execution. One successful phone might have been a fluke, two could be a great streak of luck, but the company now has four years of constantly improving and evolving devices. If OnePlus sticks to the strategy that's brought it to its current position, I'm confident it'll deliver a phone worthy of our curiosity and anticipation.
P.S. — I'm gonna be mad as hell if there's no headphone jack.
A little more than a year after Apple released the 9.7-inch iPad Pro, it’s replacing it with a new model, the iPad Pro 10.5. In that year, guess how many companies came within a million miles of matching the speed, power, convenience, and app selection of the old iPad Pro. Can you guess?
The answer is zero.
And yet, despite the fact that the meaningful tablet market has dwindled down to some Window 10 devices and the iPad – and despite the fact that the iPad itself has seen slowing sales – the company’s engineers are still moving full speed ahead and putting the most advanced technical hardware features it can come up with into this device. Apple is basically showing off at this point.
Except for one thing: this iPad wasn’t built for today. It was designed to work with a new version of iOS coming later this fall that will change how people interact with and use this device. So for now, the iPad Pro is a hot rod sitting at the starting line, gunning its engines, waiting for permission to hit the gas. And very few other companies are even in the race.
Apple has definitively made clear what the differences are between a regular iPad and an iPad Pro. Those differences include a murderer’s row of specs that don’t seem very necessary for what most people do with iPads. Here is what makes an iPad Pro, Pro: a bigger, better screen; a faster, more powerful processor; better cameras; support for the Apple Pencil; a keyboard connection port; and more speakers.
There’s one more difference, though, and it’s the biggest and most important one: the price. The iPad Pro starts at $649 for a 64GB model, and it can be priced all the way up to $1079.00 for 512GB of storage and LTE. Oh, and the Apple Pencil is $99 and Apple’s Smart Keyboard is $159, though there are cheaper third-party keyboards available.
Compare that with the regular iPad, which starts at $329 and is perfectly good at what most people do with iPads: read, watch some movies, check email, browse the web, play some games, and so on.
Add it all up and it’s not just laptop territory, it’s premium, top-of-the-line laptop territory. And If you’re looking at the larger, 12.9-inch iPad Pro (which is getting all the new features in this iPad Pro), add even more money to the pile.
I think that most people need to go through a careful calculus of value before deciding to buy an iPad that costs this much, and I think the end of that equation should either be “the iPad Pro can be my main computer” or “I have plenty of money to spend on a nice thing.” There are some important variables in that equation, but before that I want to explain why this iPad Pro is such a nice thing.
The iPad Pro 10.5 is a slightly larger version of the standard sized iPad you’ve seen from Apple for many years now, which means many older accessories won’t fit. That extra size comes from — surprise — the larger 10.5-inch screen, but Apple reduced the bezels around the edge of the screen a bit so the overall size difference isn’t really all that noticeable. It weighs about a pound and is less than a quarter of an inch thin. Even though it’s a “Pro,” it very much feels like any other iPad you’ve used.
I was all set to complain that increasing the size from 9.7 to 10.5 was not a big enough jump to justify requiring people to buy new keyboards and accessories. Then I started typing on the on-screen keyboard and on the new hardware Smart Keyboard. Even though I’m dubious about Apple’s claim that the software keyboard is “full size,” I find the slight size increase makes touch typing much easier. It’s still a little cramped, but it’s much easier to bounce between this and a real keyboard now.
The usual things you expect from Pro iPad screens are all here: high-resolution display, True Tone for matching the screen’s color to the ambient light in the room, a wide color gamut, a fully-laminated LCD so the pixels feel like they’re right on the glass, fingerprint resistance, and a coating to make it slightly less reflective in the sun.
If that was all Apple had done, I’d be sitting here telling you that this is an incredible display and also telling you not to worry that the slightly-higher 2224 x 1668 resolution means some older apps will have to upscale a tiny bit. I’d probably also mention that Apple has increased the max brightness to a very high 600 nits. But of course, that’s not all Apple has done.
The new feature that matters on this display is that it’s capable of a refresh rate of 120Hz, which is twice what most mobile devices are capable of. That sentence is as nerdy as it sounds, but stay with me for a second on this one. The refresh rate is how quickly the pixels on the screen get redrawn when you scroll or when something moves on a screen. 120Hz  means that when you scroll, there’s less lag when the pixels move.
Reducing lag is important because the obvious goal for any tablet screen is to make the stuff that appears on screen sort of feel like actual physical things you’ve moving around. This refresh rate takes us a surprisingly large step in that direction. It also means that the latency when you draw with the Apple Pencil is also reduced to 20 milliseconds — so it too feels closer to physically drawing on paper.
There are other practical benefits. Because this is Apple, it’s given a name to this feature: ProMotion. And ProMotion does more than just ratchet up the refresh rate, it also ratchets it down. So if you’re watching a movie, the screen refresh rate will lower and optimize to the video’s  frame rate. If you’re just looking at some static text on an ebook, the iPad will slow the refresh rate down even further to save battery life. Apple says that the tablet has a dedicated chip (sort of like the chip that’s used to process camera images) that looks at what’s going on on your screen and adjust the refresh rate accordingly.
If Apple had done nothing to the iPad screen in the past year, I don't think anybody would have complained. Will you actually notice all this stuff? Yes, but honestly only if you’re looking for it. More likely is that your experience will be like mine for the past week. Using the iPad Pro 10.5 just feels subtly, almost invisibly better. Is it really necessary? Probably not, but Apple decided it could make the screen incredible and so it did. The iPad Pro is very much a spare-no-expense device.
The rest of the superlatives about the iPad Pro’s hardware are almost not worth mentioning. Even though they’re improvements over the last iPad, it’s not as though any of these features were lacking in any serious way on its predecessor.
There’s a new processor, the A10X Fusion, which in some situations is able to outperform some Intel laptop chips. The rear camera is the same as what you’ll find on the iPhone 7, a 12-megapixel sensor with optical image stabilization. It takes very good photos. It still has four loud speakers. It has the latest generation TouchID sensor for unlocking the iPad quickly.
The most pertinent spec after the screen is the battery life, and I can report that it’s very good. I have been getting 8 and 9 hours of multipurpose use on the regular, very close to Apple’s claimed 10 hours of web surfing.
Those are all the hardware and price variables in the value equation, but the last thing to consider is the software running on the iPad. It turns out that it's the same-old story today, but will be a much more interesting story later this fall.
So for today, the iPad Pro runs the same iOS 10 we've been using since last September, and there’s not a whole lot new to say about it. It’s fast, easy to understand, and the ability to split screen apps is convenient, though not as powerful as a full windowing system. The real thing to know is that you’re going to be able to do a lot more later this year when the just-announced iOS 11 is released.
With iOS 11, the core UI of how iPad multitasking works is going to completely change. The dock of apps at the bottom will be available with a swipe up from anywhere. Instead of your recent apps getting listed in a horizontal card view, you’ll get a grid of them organized into “spaces” where split views you’ve set up will stay together (not unlike Mission Control on MacOS). There will be real Drag-and-Drop support — and in fact it may be more powerful than what you can do on a desktop.
And, finally, you (and all your apps) will have access to a real, traditional file system.
I am hopeful that the sum of all these operating system changes will add up to a significantly more powerful experience of using the iPad Pro as a computer, not just for “iPad things.” Make no mistake, the iPad and iPad Pro are already computers and perfectly capable of doing “computer things.” But because iOS got its start by trying to simplify away things like files systems and windows, it involves too many tricky workarounds compared to the way most of us understand how to use traditional computers.
I don’t think iOS 11 is going to turn the iPad into something like a Mac or a Windows PC, with all their customization options and apps that plug deep into the system. Yet I do think it will unlock opportunities for both users and developers that aren’t there today. I suspect that all the power inside the iPad Pro will mean that it will work better with those new features, but since it's not out yet, I can't say for sure.
If you're trying to switch to a tablet as your main computer and are surveying the competition, here's the only question that matters: can Windows 10 apps get better faster than Apple can build more utility into iOS? If I were Microsoft, I'd be very worried about the answer.
Now that we know that the 10.5-inch iPad Pro is an impressive device and that we further know that iOS 11 is going to radically change how you use it, let’s get back to that value equation I mentioned earlier. Basically, should you buy it? The iPad Pro 10.5 presents a conundrum: it is a stupendous device that I firmly believe most people shouldn’t buy just yet.
To me, if you’re going to spend $650 on a computer, it should almost surely be your main computer. And if you’re going to make the iPad Pro your main computer, you should probably get more than 64GB of storage and you should also probably get a keyboard to go with it (to say nothing of the Apple Pencil). It hits the $1,000 mark very quickly.
If you’re going to spend that much money on an iPad, you should know exactly what you’re going to do with it that takes advantage of all the Pro features. There are people who are already doing that, but I don’t think the majority of computer users can be comfortable using an iPad as their main device. For those who can, go out and buy the hell out of this thing (unless you already have the iPad Pro 9.7).
For the rest of us, my advice is to hold out and see whether iOS 11 changes the calculus.
Photography by James Bareham
Video by Christian Mazza, Becca Farsace

It's hard out there for a new pair of wired earphones. It's harder still if they're on Kickstarter instead of a Best Buy retail shelf, and it's hardest of all if they're produced from a complete neophyte of a company. That's the challenge ahead for the StarBrick Be4 in-ear headphones that I've been listening to for the past few days, but I'm encouraged to say they have what it takes to overcome their humble beginnings.
The Be4 are built around one of the priciest materials around, beryllium, whose lightness and rigidity prove incredibly useful in the creation of dynamic audio drivers that can recreate music faithfully and without improper resonances or distortion. Beryllium is the core ingredient in the best dynamic-driver headphones I've heard so far, the $3,999 Focal Utopias, and seeing it make an appearance in such tiny and affordable headphones as the Be4 is what intrigued me to give these new buds a listen.
The good news is that the StarBrick Be4 keep my happy track record with beryllium intact. They have a very sweet, mellow sound that can be enjoyed for many hours at a time. I like their reproduction of vocals, which is especially good on Bjork's Homogenic, and their wide soundstage and sense of detail. They don't have great dynamic range, as I feel like they lack the deepest bass and highest treble, but that's part of what makes them such a comfortable listen. For my tastes, they lack the bite and aggression that I favor (a good example of which might be Shure's SE535s, which have an extra sliver of bass and Shure's characteristically efferverscent treble), however I can see them being an excellent pick for people with more laid-back preferences.
The usual Kickstarter caveat must apply here: you're dealing with an unknown company that has no prior successful products to its name (I checked and this is the very first StarBrick product of any kind), and you're taking on a greater risk than moseying down to the nearest electronics store and picking up a pair of generic buds. That being said, I like these Be4 earbuds: they fit well, they're handsomely designed, and they're nicely tuned. The first 75 backers can grab a pair for $99, followed by $109 for the next 75, and $119 for anyone else still keen, with deliveries promised for August.
Microsoft unveiled its new Xbox One X game console last night, and the company is using a variety of logos so consumers can tell which games are enhanced for the new system. A new “Xbox One X Enhanced” logo will be visible on retail games and in the Xbox Store, and Microsoft says it lets gamers know “when a developer has done special work to take advantage of Xbox One X’s 6 teraflops of performance, and to distinguish it from existing Xbox One titles.”
That “special work” might not always be very clear, but Microsoft expects dozens of titles to be updated and “enhanced” for the Xbox One X. Microsoft is using three logos in total for new Xbox One games, including the enhanced logo, a 4K indicator, and a symbol for HDR support. The 4K support will mean a game has a 2160p frame buffer output, that includes Native 4K, Checkerboarding, and Dynamic Resolution. HDR support is just the regular HDR10 standard that already exists on the Xbox One S.
Enhanced for Xbox One X will be the slightly more confusing out of all three logos, as developers can choose from a range of ways to improve their games for the new console. At the minimum it will mean existing titles are updated to take more advantage of the hardware capabilities of the Xbox One X, or that a developer has used the most recent developer tools. Even if games aren’t specifically enhanced for the Xbox One X, Microsoft claims they’ll still play better on the new console.

Bethesda has clarified its new Creation Club system — the program that will sell additional content to both The Elder Scrolls: Skyrim and Fallout 4 — specifying that the service will not be used to sell existing mods. Creation Club, which was announced during the publisher’s E3 keynote last night, will instead allow players to buy officially sanctioned characters, weapons, and other add-ons created by Bethesda’s own studios and selected third-party developers.
Also available via Creation Club will be new clothes, areas, and even game modes. All of the above sound like the kinds of things mods have been bringing to the two games since their release, but Bethesda notes the difference, stating in its FAQ that most of the items for sale will be made internally, by the games’ own development teams, or by other studios under its umbrella.
Some other developers will also be involved, the company says, mentioning partners that have already worked on Bethesda games, as well as “external creators,” but each will have to go through an internal review process. “All the content is approved, curated, and taken through the full internal dev cycle; including localisation, polishing, and testing,” the company says. “This also guarantees that all content works together."
That’s a marked difference from regular mods, which are usually created by amateur coders in their spare time, and distributed online for free. That approach may mean that regular mods lack the polish of the add-ons you can expect to get under the Creation Club program — save games are often incompatible with some mods, for example — but it also gives mod makers freedom that official add-ons might not get. Don’t expect to see a Bethesda-sanctioned Thomas the Tank Engine mod for Skyrim any time soon.
That said, the idea of paying for third-party mods is not unheard of. Bethesda was one of the first companies to get involved in a paid mod program Steam creator Valve launched — and then quickly shelved — back in 2015. The program faced widespread criticism from PC gamers as soon as it launched, and lasted only a week before the publisher canceled it. Speaking at the time, Valve’s Alden Kroll said that Valve "didn't understand exactly what we were doing” by introducing real money into established modmaking communities.
Speaking in 2015 about the controversy, Bethesda’s Pete Hines said that his company would re-evaluate the idea of paid mods in the future, saying that “there is a case to be made that people who spend a lot of time working on mods ought to be able to have a way of monetizing what they're doing.” But two years doesn’t seem to have reversed Bethesda’s decision. In its Creation Club FAQ, the company says a definitive “no” to the question of whether mods will be available for real cash. “Mods will remain a free and open system where anyone can create and share what they’d like,” the page reads. “Also, we won’t allow any existing mods to be retrofitted into Creation Club, it must all be original content.”

Sony has a new version of the FES Watch, its E Ink watch that can display a variety of faces and band designs at the touch of a button. The FES Watch U adds a metal bezel to the original’s minimalist design, which may or may not to be your taste — it kind of isn’t to mine, though the product does look more refined overall.
While neither model is really a smartwatch, the FES Watch U does have a little more functionality than the original model, with extra face designs available by connecting to an app called FES Closet. Sony says it will release new designs from notable creators every month for the rest of the year. The new watch also uses a rechargeable battery that lasts up to 3 weeks; the original FES Watch used button cells that had to be replaced every couple of years.
The FES Watch U is available in Japan from today from Sony’s First Flight crowdfunding site, as well as several fashion boutiques in Tokyo. The “premium black” model costs 60,000 yen ($544), while the regular steel finish sells for 46,000 yen ($417) with a black or white strap. Both variants are considerably more expensive than the 29,700 yen original, and it’s unlikely any of them will see an official release outside Japan.
It takes a lot to surprise me these days, but Logitech has done it. The PC gear company has just revealed a new Powerplay technology that builds wireless charging directly into its mouse pad, allowing compatible wireless mice to charge constantly while on the pad. As someone with bitter memories of being let down by the feeble batteries of wireless gaming peripherals, I've developed something of a phobia for anything untethered, but this Powerplay action sounds like exactly the thing I've been waiting for.
The wireless charging tech built inside the Powerplay mouse mat is proprietary to Logitech, and the company claims it took more than four years of research and development to make it a reality. I asked Logitech why it didn't go with something more ubiquitous like the Qi standard, and the answer I received was that it wouldn't have been possible to cover the whole surface (275mm x 320mm) of the pad with Qi. Corsair's Project Zeus concept does use Qi, but consigns it to just one corner of the pad, whereas the Logitech G Powerplay mouse pad will charge your mouse wherever it's positioned and no matter how it's moving.
I can't overstate just how ingenious and appropriate an application of technology this is. Conceptually, I love it already, and the only trace of skepticism I have is about whether it works quite as well as Logitech promises. There's no Mac compatibility listed, for one thing, and the idea of the wireless charging causing no interference to the wireless data transfer for the mouse to communicate with a PC certainly needs to be tested. If it works as advertised, though, I'd grab one of these Powerplay pads and never look back. It even comes with a choice of hard or cloth surface to suit your mousing preferences.
Alongside the Logitech G Powerplay, which is to be priced at $99.99 and released in August, Logitech has also announced the first two mice officially compatible with it: the G903 and G703. The G903 is a very modest upgrade from the G900 while the G703 is practically identical to the well liked G403; both of the two new models use the PMW3366 optical sensor and just add improved switches rated to last longer. The G903 will cost $149.99 and the G703 will be $99.99 when they go on sale later this month.
UK-automaker Jaguar Land Rover is investing $25 million in Lyft to support the ride-hail company’s autonomous and connected vehicle activities, the two companies announced today. The money was invested through InMotion, Jaguar Land Rover’s mobility services subsidiary, and was included in Lyft’s latest round of fundraising, which ended in April.
Under the terms of the deal, JLR will provide an unknown number of vehicles to Lyft drivers. Additionally, JLR — Britain’s biggest carmaker — will be allowed to test its autonomous vehicles on Lyft’s ride-hailing network. The automaker has been testing its autonomous research vehicles on a 44-mile stretch near its headquarters in Coventry.
Lyft has been on a streak of corporate cooperation lately, having just recently locked down a pair of deals with two self-driving startups, Waymo and NuTonomy, to accelerate the deployment of on-demand, autonomous vehicles. But the partnership with JLR is Lyft’s first significant investment from a traditional automaker since General Motors gave it $500 million in December 2015.
The legacy auto industry has been increasingly interested in technology and mobility companies like Uber and Lyft, as it seeks to insulate itself from a predicted decline in personal car ownership.
The news is also the latest sign that Lyft — No. 2 in the US, but still significantly smaller than rival Uber — prefers to remain somewhat of a passive player in the world of self-driving cars. Rather than develop its own software, the company will allow companies like GM, Waymo, NuTonomy, and now JLR, to test their vehicles on its platform. Lyft president and co-founder John Zimmer has said that he expects the majority of the company’s rides to take place in autonomous vehicles by 2021.
Of course, Lyft isn’t the only ride-hailing company out there making these types of partnerships. Uber inked a deal with Volvo last year to purchase 100 cars with the goal of outfitting them with the ride-hail company’s autonomous hardware. The app company also recently joined forces with German auto giant Daimler on the deployment of self-driving cars. The cars, along with the autonomous technology, will be manufactured by Daimler before being introduced into Uber’s ride-hailing network, the companies say.
But Uber’s pursuit of self-driving technology has led it down some dark paths. The company was recently sued by Waymo, which is a subsidiary of Google parent company Alphabet, for allegedly stealing its autonomous driving secrets. The case is still winding its way through the courts, but there have already been a number of casualties, including the head of Uber’s self-driving unit and, arguably, Uber’s reputation.


Welcome to Bethesdaland, a creepy cartoon wonderland full of Bethesda games. As part of its E3 press conference, the company showcased all its not-so-cheerful upcoming properties in an uncomfortably festive light. Doom and Fallout in VR. A more arcade-style Quake championed as a $1 million esport. Some creepy-as-hell horror in The Evil Within 2. A new story in the world Dishonored 2. And capping off the night? A whole new take on Wolfenstein.
There was, alas, no new Fallout Shelter this year.
The oversized controller from the original Xbox console — aka “The Duke” — is making a comeback on the Xbox One this holiday season, via Polygon. Accessory maker Hyperkin is partnering with Microsoft to bring back the legendary controller for the Xbox One and Windows 10 devices.
The new Duke is a slightly modernized version that will be, for the most part, a “faithful recreation of the original controller's form factor.” That’s not to say there won’t be any new features: Hyperkin is updating the controller with “a logo display screen, left and right bumpers, and a 9 ft. detachable cable.”
The news is timely too, given that Microsoft announced earlier today that it would be adding backwards compatibility for the original Xbox to the Xbox One at its E3 keynote today.
For those not familiar with The Duke’s majesty, it came into being alongside the original Xbox when it was released on November 21, 2001 in North America. The Duke remains to this day one of gaming’s most infamous pieces of hardware, considered by most to be comically oversized and dreadfully uncomfortable. The negative feedback led to its eventual replacement by the smaller Xbox Controller S, which was originally designed for the Japanese market. The Xbox 360 and Xbox One controllers that followed also took design cues from the Controller S, instead of the Duke’s princely size.
The recreated Duke is being built with the guidance and blessing of Seamus Blackley, one of the designers of the original Xbox and long-time proponent of the massive controller.
As Promised! https://t.co/tOVQEg3IqR
There’s no concrete word on price or release date, but hopefully Hyperkin will have more to share soon.
Bethesda made a series of questionable choices at its E3 press conference, like holding the event at 9PM local time (midnight, for those of you on the East Coast), constructing an entire miniature theme park called “Bethesdaland,” and featuring the Chainsmokers. And it didn’t deliver a few of the most anticipated announcements, like the rumored sci-fi game Starfield.
That said, some exciting stuff came out of Bethesda’s various studios. We’ve got the most important parts of it collected here.
The first Dishonored game had excellent expansions, putting players in the shoes of antagonist Daud and his protege Billie Lurk. Now, there’s a new standalone story set in the universe, apparently after the events of Dishonored 2. Lurk and Daud are back, and they’re teaming up to kill the Outsider, an emo folk deity who has driven the events of the series so far. It’s launching on September 15th.
Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus is a sequel to Wolfenstein: The New Order, set in 1961 America and featuring a cast of pulp movie archetypes. If you want to shoot Nazis in a video game this year, maybe this will be a good way to do it! Also, somebody takes LSD. The New Colossus will come out on October 27th.
Yep, that’s still happening, and it could turn out pretty well. Doom VFR is an apparently standalone virtual reality shooter for the HTC Vive and PlayStation VR; it looks similar to the early experience we tried at E3 2016, but more polished. Meanwhile, a VR version of Fallout 4 — as in, the full open-world game in a VR headset — got an official release date of October on the HTC Vive.
What is The Evil Within 2 — a sequel to Resident Evil creator Shinji Mikami’s 2014 game — about? In broad strokes, original protagonist Sebastian Castellanos is searching for his daughter in a surreal nightmarescape. But you need to watch the trailer to get the full force of its weirdness, including a milk-themed visual motif straight out of Westworld.

Did you watch The Man in the High Castle and think, “I wish this had more gore and fire-breathing robots?” Bethesda has something for you: Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus, the latest in MachineGames’ portion of the Wolfenstein series. The New Colossus follows the excellent 2014 game Wolfenstein: The New Order and its 2015 prequel Wolfenstein: The Old Blood, and it’s set in the same alternate universe in which Nazis won World War 2. This time, though, the year is 1961, and protagonist B.J. Blazkowicz is back in the US to help the American resistance.
Bethesda teased The New Colossus at E3 last year, but at that point, it wasn’t explicitly connected to the Wolfenstein series. (A listing also leaked on Amazon Germany yesterday.) According to the trailer description, the game will send you through Roswell, New Mexico; a flooded New Orleans; and the nuclear waste of New York City, among other locations. This first trailer is heavy on the same ironic nostalgia Bethesda loves to play on with the Fallout series, and the game looks — at the very least — like entertaining pulp. It’s being released on October 27th for Xbox One, PlayStation 4, and PC.
Bethesda took the time at E3 to announce a variety of new games, all coming later this year in 2017. That includes Wolfenstein 2: The New Colossus, The Evil Within 2, and a new standalone Dishonored spin-off, Dishonored: Death of the Outsider. Here are the biggest trailers, gameplay videos, and announcements from the Bethesda’s E3 2017 event.
A sequel to The Evil Within, a horror game from  Resident Evil creator Shinji Mikami, will launch October 13 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC, Bethesda announced today during its E3 press conference. The announcement for The Evil Within 2 was accompanied with an absolutely bonkers trailer.
Tango Gameworks and Bethesda released The Evil Within in 2014. The game followed a police detective, Sebastian Castellanos, who is mysteriously transported to a bizarre and terrifying new realm while investigating a murder case. In the sequel, Sebastian returns to a nightmare world while searching for his daughter.
Rumors about a sequel have been circulating since March after a job listing was leaked.  This week, Reddit users spotted an ad on the site for the game.

Dishonored, Bethesda’s excellent steam punk-meets-occult stealth series, is getting a new expansion on September 15th, the developer announced this evening at its E3 press conference. As many fans suspected, the expansion puts players in the shoes of Dreadful Whale Captain Meagan Foster, who in a previous life was an assassin who went by the name Billy Lurk. But in a satisfying twist, Bethesda has you hunting the Outsider, the mysterious and seemingly immortal entity who imbues select citizens of Dunwall with magic powers.
This expansion, called “Death of the Outsider,” is billed as the Dishonored universe’s first “standalone story,” meaning it’s not technically tied to the second game, though it appears to take place after the sequel’s end. Unlike the original game’s “The Knife of Dunwall” and “The Brigmore Witches” DLC packs, this one could be the beginning of a long string of episodic one-off experiences that further build out the series’ world, something that seems increasingly likely given the Dishonored 2’s poor sales performance. We don’t yet have pricing details, but as it is something larger, akin to Infamous: First Light, it may in the $30 to $40 range.
The trailer has Meagan, how with a cyborg eye and Corvo-like powers, freeing the assassin Daud in the first step toward the ultimate goal of eliminating the Outsider. So regardless of how much it costs, or how long it ends up being, “Death of the Outsider still looks like it could be the most intriguing and worthwhile Dishonored expansion yet.
We saw some very early experiments with Doom in virtual reality last year at E3. But now, Bethesda’s promising a new, discrete experience called Doom VFR, and it looks pretty fun. The game puts you into fights with Doom’s familiar demons, but per the trailer, you’ll get some pretty wild teleportation options — think jumping and pivoting in the air to blast a cacodemon. There’s no launch date, but it’s being released for PlayStation VR and HTC Vive.
Bethesda also reminded us that Fallout 4’s VR edition is still coming — and now we know it’ll be released in October for HTC Vive. Unlike Doom VFR, this looks a lot like a direct port of the non-VR Fallout into VR, which isn’t necessarily a good idea. Its core pitch is something like “Do all the things you’re used to in Fallout 4, but somewhat less efficiently!” I’m not saying it couldn’t be good, but I’m withholding judgment until I can try it for more than a few minutes, like I did last year.
Neither of these experiences got as much time as Bethesda’s big new non-VR games, but they’re some of the most substantive virtual reality we’ve seen at the show so far, after the complete absence of it from Microsoft’s Xbox One X event today.
Skyrim may be making a very-belated debut on Nintendo Switch, but when it does launch it’ll have at least a few notable additions in the form of gear pulled straight from Nintendo’s own The Legend of Zelda series. As you explore Bethesda’s open-world fantasy role-playing game, you’ll be able to make your hero look like Link in Breath of the Wild, and you can even wield the iconic Master Sword to take down foes. Unfortunately, it’s unclear whether or not you’ll be able to dress up as Tingle as well.
Skyrim is coming to Switch later this fall.
Microsoft started their E3 2017 press conference with the Xbox One X, previously called Project Scorpio. Before a number of surprise announcements starting with a real world Porsche that’ll feature in Forza Motorsport 7. Followed by PC phenomena PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds launching exclusively on the Xbox One, a release date for animated platformer Cuphead, a three episode prequel to Life is Strange, and a Crackdown 3 trailer starring Terry Crews.
We also got a look at the first gameplay of Assassin’s Creed: Origins, BioWare’s new sci-fi action RPG Anthem, Rare’s open sea pirate game Sea of Thieves, and a very nice looking lighting upgrade for Minecraft.
There were, alas no Halo or Gears of War this year.
Microsoft announced that the Xbox One is getting backwards compatibility support for original Xbox games at its E3 presentation, and now we know a little more about how that will actually work.
Per Microsoft’s Albert Penello (as spotted by our friends at Polygon) things should be pretty simple: Original Xbox discs will work, presumably as an authorization to access an emulated digital copy, similar to the way Xbox 360 emulation currently works on the Xbox One. If you own digital licenses to copies of original Xbox games from back in the day, those will transfer over too.
Your original Xbox discs will work. Digital licenses will carry over. AND you can system-link play across all three generations.
And most impressively, you’ll be able to play local multiplayer for old Xbox titles through system link, which will support all three generations of Microsoft’s consoles. That’s right, you’ll be able to to play supported games at a LAN party by wiring up an Xbox to an Xbox 360 to an Xbox One.
We still don’t know what original Xbox games are coming to the Xbox One, or when to expect the feature to roll out, but Microsoft should be showing off more about the feature over the next few days at E3.
Microsoft made good on its promise to reveal all the key details about Project Scorpio during its E3 press conference today. We got an official name, a price, and a release date: the Xbox One X, as it’s called, will start at $499 and will start shipping on November 7th. In a demo room following the company’s event, we got a look at the hardware in a side-by-side comparison with Microsoft’s cheaper Xbox One S console.
If you’re looking for a radically redesigned device, you will be disappointed. The new console looks pretty much identical to the developer kits we saw earlier this year, minus the OLED display, physical buttons, and real-time clock. In fact, there’s not all that much you can say about the One X itself other than that it just looks like an Xbox.
It’s shaped and designed just like the refreshed slim One S that Microsoft unveiled last summer — albeit slightly smaller. Microsoft’s Phil Spencer proudly proclaimed on stage that the Xbox One X is the smallest console the company has ever produced. It’s also a nice matte black. Microsoft didn’t say whether there would be color options, but it’s safe to say that, for now, the launch version will come in black only.
But the real changes are inside, underneath the generic Xbox shell. Microsoft says that it produces 6 teraflops of graphical power thanks to a custom GPU engine that runs at 1172MHz. Both those metrics put it noticeably ahead of Sony’s PlayStation 4 Pro, which packs 4.2 teraflops running at 911MHz (in a package that’s $100 cheaper). For pretty much every new game Microsoft touted onstage — and it showed a lot, including 22 exclusives — the Xbox One X will hit 4K resolution and 60 frames per second.
That’s the real value Microsoft is trying to provide here. It doesn’t need to wow you with hardware so much as it needs to deliver on its promise of a premium experience capable of competing with a mid- to high-end PC gaming rig. There will always be the standard console tradeoffs — no upgradability and no choice of where to buy your games, to name a couple. But Microsoft took one step closer today to creating the game console it thinks the enthusiast world wants.



Microsoft’s Project Scorpio was one of the most anticipated announcements of E3, and now it has a name and a release date. It’s called the Xbox One X, and you’ll be able to buy it on November 7th, for the disappointingly high price of $499.
But that wasn’t the only thing that happened. We got release dates for some long-awaited games like Crackdown 3, our first look at new series installments like Assassins Creed Origins, and a lot of gameplay footage. There weren’t a lot of big surprises, but all in all, it wasn’t a bad show. You can read all the announcements here, or get the biggest news below.
We knew a lot about Microsoft’s new console before its official announcement, but we didn’t have its name, price, or release date. Xbox One X — as we already knew — is a souped-up successor to the Xbox One, with more graphical power than the comparable PlayStation 4 Pro. The One X supports 4K gameplay and promises “super sampling” that’s supposed to make graphics look better on 1080p TVs as well. It’s compatible with existing Xbox One accessories, and maintains support for backwards-compatible Xbox 360 games.
Unfortunately, we also got one very unwelcome rumor confirmed: the Xbox One X will cost $499, a hundred dollars more than the PlayStation 4 Pro.
The Xbox One already has backwards compatibility with a large collection of Xbox 360 games, but Microsoft went back another generation at this E3, announcing that it’ll roll out support for some original Xbox games too. One of the first will be beloved flight game Crimson Skies; we’ll be learning more about the program later this year.
Microsoft has been dragging out the Crackdown 3 announcement for years, but now the explosive shooter has a release date: November 7th, the same day as the Xbox One X’s launch. That’s cool, but for now, the best thing about this trailer by far is a guest appearance from Terry Crews.
Assassin’s Creed Origins is about a magi (“An Egyptian sheriff, if you like”) who returns home to kill an oracle and his henchmen with a lot of pleasantly over-the-top powers. You can scope out situations with a pet bird, and when you shoot your bow, you can leap into an arrow’s-eye view and guide its course. The short glimpse we got of gameplay suggests that you’ll get some Dark Souls-tinged combat, RPG-style loot, and complex customization options, too. The game is coming out October 27th on all platforms.
That’s 250 more cars than Forza Motorsport 6, which boasted what we can all agree was a frankly pathetic 450 cars. From what we’ve seen, Forza 7 is also the graphical powerhouse you’d expect. It runs at 60 frames per second at 4K resolution, rendering cars in hyper-realistic detail. You can go read more in my colleague Sean O’Kane’s deep dive on the game’s development, and the game itself goes on sale October 3rd.
Anthem’s teaser trailer showed up during yesterday’s EA event, but this was the first time we saw any gameplay. Developed by BioWare, the title is supposed to be a narratively compelling cooperative game, but it hasn’t really distinguished itself from shooters like Destiny, except for one thing: jetpacks. You can fly around some kind of tropical alien landscape with your friends, and that looks awesome. However awesome (or not) the rest of the game turns out to be, it’ll be released in 2018.
You: the story is great and it's got sweet guns!Me: So?You: ... there are jetpacksMe: *spamming the Buy button*
Turn 10 Studios announced Forza Motorsport 7 today during Microsoft’s E3 press conference, and it’s primed to be the best-looking and most feature-dense entry in the series. The game was tailor-made to take advantage of the new Xbox One X’s added horsepower, which should render the game in 4K resolution and 60 frames per second.
This also the first full Forza Motorsport game to hit PC. (The series has tested the Windows 10 water with Forza Motorsport 6: Apex and Forza Horizon 3.) And if you want the cars, the tracks, the raindrops on the windshield to look their absolute, pixel-perfect best, the Windows 10 version — with the help of some top of the line GPU — will be the best choice.
But the real advantage isn’t necessarily what you’d expect. The key difference, according to developers, will be the PC’s adaptability — being able to use more types of controllers and wheels, for example. Here’s what some of the head folks responsible for Forza Motorsport said when I asked them about PC vs. what at the time was still called Project Scorpio:
“Oh, of course, of course [PC will be better]. I don't know what that gap is come this winter when we ship the console. But there'll be a gap. You can go spend however much you need to spend to get over it. Obviously, you can throw ten thousand plus dollars into your PC and build a killer rig, you can do multiscreen. That's not what the console's trying to be. The console is trying to be an entertainment device you just take into your living room, plug it in and you’re up and going. The PC commitment's a different layer.
“The biggest difference from a game creator between the PC environment or the console environment is the efficiency we get out of the console hardware because it's just a known platform. We know exactly how long it takes to transfer a texture from one place to another. We can map that out. We can make sure we have no gaps, no stalls. And we can just be super efficient in what we get. So we get a lot more out of the fixed console. There is no fixed PC right hardware config, right? So you have to build that adaptability into your code and that flexibility, and you just can't assume things are going to work the same way.
“That actually ends up being a pretty big performance boost. And it's where when I get the, you know, the teardowns, which we'll have on Scorpio where they'll take all the pieces out and try and do the off-the-shelf PC and say, ‘Well this is the PC that equals the Scorpio’ — it just isn't. You'd need to go do that and add another 30 percent to your specs to make sure you're going to get the performance we get.”
“I've got this Lancer Evo, and it's got a Vishnu turbo set. It's getting up to 700 horsepower. That's all well and good, but you know a 500 horsepower Ferrari is going to be a lot faster. It's just got a better suspension and better integration. So it's fun to talk about the specs, but when you've got something that's so perfectly integrated, the speed actually comes from the integration not from the individual hardware.”
“I mean as much as the platform's done a great job at providing a common environment for us to develop almost the same title on both PC and Xbox, theres a lot of things we learn. As we would performance optimize, we'll have different levels of features, and those eventually show up as the scalers that a PC gamer gets in their version, and so they are now more like first class citizens in our engine.
“But in the end we can never — the thing that we've done in our history of being able to tune and deliver this very curated, 'Here's what the game does when it plays super smooth 60 frames a second native resolution,’ right? Because we've been native since the beginning. That's at our core and our heart of how we how we develop our content — how we write the code, how we test what we're finally shipping is everybody's tuning to deliver that experience on a very fixed device. We can target that with PC, but in a lot of ways there's things that just get in the way. It's still not a pure ‘I am here for gaming’ device.
“PC gaming is great. I'm not saying it's not. But the purity of what you get out of a console — a box that's been purpose built to play games and not only play games but with Scorpio, to play 4K games — it amazed us from the beginning because we were turning on every knob we had in our ultra PC settings. And everything is built that way — that the box is built that way, the OS is built that way, that the graphics drivers and end libraries those are built that way — and our engine is tuned to fit on that. It means that we can squeeze even more into that that critical frame time of, ‘We want to get in front of the player.’”
BioWare revealed the first full look at its ambitious new game, Anthem, today at Microsoft’s E3 press conference. In Anthem, players will act as exosuit-wearing “freelancers” exploring a sci-fi open-world.
Game director Jon Warner presented the footage, which featured a quest to save a gang of fellow freelancers. The mission unfolded through an exploration of a lush, jungle-like area. “The world of Anthem is hostile, and threats can come from any direction,” Warner said. In addition to enemies in the wild, players will also have to be wary of dynamic weather events called “shaper storms.”
Anthem has been rumored as EA’s answer to games like Destiny. Casey Hudson, the executive producer on the original Mass Effect trilogy, founded a new team at BioWare Edmonton years ago to create the brand new IP. According to Kotaku, that project has long been codenamed Dylan, an indicator of the team’s lofty goal to make “the Bob Dylan of video games—one that would be referenced for years to come.”
At EA’s press conference yesterday, we got our first official look at the game: a brief trailer that teased a world in which players would “either live with the choices they make, or die trying to change them.”
EA CEO Andrew Wilson, in an earnings call in May, briefly touched on the progress of BioWare’s new action IP. “The game is built around a live service, and through our creative process, we've decided to add more to the disruptive new social designs for our players,” he said.
The game will launch in 2018.



Microsoft is bringing original Xbox games to the Xbox One. After launching Xbox 360 backwards compatibility at E3 last year, Microsoft is surprising gamers again with original Xbox games. Crimson Skies is one of the first titles planned for the new backwards compatibility, and Xbox chief Phil Spencer promises that original Xbox games will "look better and play better across the Xbox One family."
The original Xbox games support will launch later this year, and it's likely that Microsoft will trial it with Xbox Insiders in the coming months.
Time travelling teen drama Life is Strange is getting a new season, which will serve as a prequel to the original 2015 game. The new arc is called “Before the Storm” and will be spread across three episodes.
Related
The original Life is Strange starred high school student Max, an aspiring photographer who learns she has the power to rewind time. The narrative-focused experience centered around Max’s budding power, which she could use to change events and reshape the future. It was a gripping story that melded elements of TV shows like Veronica Mars and Twin Peaks, with the gameplay of episodic adventures from Telltale Games.
The first episode of the new Life is Strange arc will debut on August 31st. Meanwhile, a live-action series based on the series is also in the works.
Ori and the Blind Forest is one of the best Xbox One games ever made, with polished, Metroidvania-style gameplay, a haunting soundtrack, and gorgeous, painted art that brings to mind the best of traditional animation. And today at its E3 keynote, Microsoft announced a sequel, titled Ori and the Will of the Wisps.
Microsoft didn’t show off any gameplay footage from the sequel, but presumably it will feature similar Metroidvania gameplay and once again star Ori — the titular catlike guardian spirit from the first game. The cinematic trailer showcases a few similarly beautiful environments, before cutting to a show of Ori consoling a sad owlet gazing out at the skeletons of what are presumably its parents.
Ori and the Will of the Wisps is exclusive to the Xbox One and Windows 10 Store, although there’s no release date yet.
Microsoft revealed its new Xbox One X console on stage at E3 earlier today, and now the company is announcing the price: $499. The new gaming console will debut on November 7th priced at $499, exactly $100 more than its main competition the PlayStation 4 Pro. The Xbox One X is more powerful at 6 teraflops of graphical power vs. the 4.2 teraflops found on the PlayStation 4 Pro, and it also includes an Ultra HD Blu-ray drive.
The $100 price different will still be a point of discussion for gamers interested in both Microsoft and Sony's consoles. Sony is planning to hold its own E3 press conference tomorrow night at 6PM PT / 9PM ET, and its possible the company could announce its own PS4 Pro price cut to counter Microsoft's more powerful console. Either way, games will be the key to the success of both the Xbox One X and the existing Xbox One S, and Microsoft has focused heavily on those at E3 today.
Microsoft has finally announced a release date for Cuphead, the classic animation-inspired platformer / shooter from developer Studio MDHR: September 29th.
Along with the release date, Studio MDHR has a brief new trailer showing off more Cuphead gameplay, highlighting a bit of the platforming and combat. The game still looks incredible from an art perspective, with seemingly hand-drawn animations that look like they walked right off Walt Disney’s desk in the 1930s.
That release will mark the end of a long road for development for the stylistic indie game, which was first announced over three years ago at E3 2014. Since then, Cuphead has been delayed multiple times, but it sounds like we’ll finally get to see whether Studio MDHR has put together a game that plays as good as it looks this fall.
Today, the game has also appeared for pre-order on Steam.
Cuphead is available as an Xbox Play Anywhere title on Windows 10, Xbox One, and Steam on September 29th.
Crackdown 3 went MIA following its last gameplay demo at Gamescom 2015. Naturally, its E3 2017 trailer is making up for lost time. The footage is dense with explosives, heavy weapons, and robots, all rendered in the series’s neon art style.
Terry Crews also makes a guest appearance. Because why not.
Announced at E3 2014, Crackdown 3 was supposed to use cloud computing to produce extravagant environmental destruction in the game’s open world city. The trailer, along with future gameplay demos, showed characters knocking down office complexes and skyscrapers. But Microsoft tweaked expectations in 2015, clarifying that the massive destruction would be limited to multiplayer play, and that single-player play, developed by Sumo Digital, wouldn’t feature the benefits of cloud computing.
Crackdown 3 is scheduled for release on Xbox One and Windows 10 on November 7.
Rare’s ambitious pirate game, Sea of Thieves, will take you beyond the ocean waters of previous demos. The developer showed off new footage today at Microsoft’s E3 press conference, featuring underwater exploration and a search for treasure on a tropical island.
In Sea of Thieves, players have to team up to keep their ships up and running. That includes readying the sails, steering the ship, and manning the cannons, in addition to on-shore exploration. Rare showed off the first gameplay last year, a video that showed off how quickly battles can lead to the end of your ship.
Post-swim, the footage today offered a look at treasure hunting across beaches and through caves. Even if you successfully locate your bounty, there’s a good chance you’ll have to fight to keep it from other players. Sea of Thieves will launch in early 2018.

In 2014, developers Tim and Adrien Soret released a short playable teaser called The Last Night, which transported the style and vibe of cyberpunk adventures like Blade Runner into a 2D, pixel art game. Now the pair have shown off what the final version of the game will look like —  and it’s absolutely gorgeous. The creators describe the setting as a “two-dimensional cyberpunk open world,” with four unique districts to explore. Meanwhile, the gameplay itself, which is billed as a “cinematic platformer,” looks reminiscent of classics like Another World.
The Last Night will be coming to both Xbox One and PC in 2018.
Minecraft is getting a new look this fall with a “Super Duper Graphics Pack” update that adds more realistic textures, light effects, and graphics to the popular block building game, including full 4K resolution on the Xbox One X console. Were you concerned about the lack of ultra-realistic water with reflections in Minecraft until now? Well, worry no longer.
Also announced was the Better Together Update, which adds a new community marketplace for players to sell creations, new in-game servers to play together, and an interesting first — cross platform play between different platforms, including Xbox One, Windows 10, the Nintendo Switch, and a variety of mobile devices.
The 4K graphics is set to release this fall, with the rest of the Better Together features coming soon.
Did Metro 2033 and its sequel Metro: Last Light not sate your thirst for shooting mutant animals in an eerily beautiful post-apocalyptic future? Well, developer 4A Games is releasing a new installment of the series — Metro Exodus — in 2018 for Windows and the Xbox One.
Like its predecessors, Metro Exodus is based on the series of novels from Russian author Dmitry Glukhovsky, in which the last survivors of a nuclear war survive underground in subway networks. In this trailer, that requires some handy work with a knife and crossbow, before your protagonist escapes on a steam engine. We don’t know a lot about the game yet, but the trailer is cinematic and bleakly gorgeous.
Exodus isn’t 4A’s only upcoming title — it’s also working on Arktika.1, another post-apocalyptic shooter set for late 2017 release on the Oculus Rift. Truly, we’re in for a cornucopia of futuristic misery.
At its big E3 keynote today, Microsoft provided a better look at its upcoming Xbox One survival game State of Decay 2. The game, which was first revealed last year, expands on the original Xbox 360 game with an open-world setting and cooperative gameplay that forces you to survive the zombie apocalypse alongside other players. That includes fighting off the typical undead hordes, as well as giant zombies with glowing red eyes. The game will let players build their own shelters, while also dealing with other conditions like hunger and the weather.
Here’s how the developers describe the set-up:
18 months after the zombie apocalypse, the military abandons a refugee camp in small-town America. Those left behind must band together to survive the fall of civilization and the rise of the undead. In State of Decay 2, it’s up to you to gather survivors, build a community, and redefine what it means to survive.
State of Decay 2 will be exclusive to Xbox One and Windows 10, and will launch in spring 2018.
Developing. Check out our E3 hub for all the news, trailers, and updates!
PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds will launch as an exclusive to the Xbox One later this year, as announced at Microsoft’s big E3 showcase. Developer Brendan Greene took the stage to announce the news, noting the the port would also include enhancements for the Xbox One X when it comes out.
If you’re not familar with PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds (PUBG), it’s sort of like The Hunger Games or Battle Royale put into video game form. In the game, 100 players are dropped onto an island, left to forage for weapons, vehicles, and supplies, and duke it out until only one player is left standings. Released on PC earlier this year, the game has since become a massive hit, especially inside the streaming community.
PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds releases for Xbox One in “late 2017.”
Ubisoft’s next entry in the Assassin’s Creed franchise, Assassin’s Creed Origins, will launch October 27th. The game was announced today at E3 2017 during Microsoft’s press conference.
Assassin’s Creed Origins will take place in ancient Egypt, confirmed Jean Guesdon, the game’s creative director. Origins will tell the story of one man, the last magi and protector of his community. “An Egyptian sheriff, if you like,” Guesdon said.
Footage of the game showed off Siwa, home of the game’s lead character. In addition to the usual sneaking and stabbing, players will be able to scout out the area by sending a pet bird soaring into the air, controlling the flight of an arrow, and collecting RPG-style loot from fallen enemies.
Rumors about the new game have been circling the web for some time. In May, an image of a character in a wooden sailboat, on a mission to go “assassinate the Crocodile” was posted to — and later deleted from — Reddit. The image was later corroborated by Eurogamer. Last week, a retailer leak teased more of the Egyptian setting.
Forza Motorsport 7 was just announced at E3, and we’ve got an exclusive first look at the game, which you can see above. The first Forza for Microsoft’s new Xbox One X will take advantage of the console’s boost in power to run natively in 4K at 60 frames per second. The 5-minute clip shows off what that looks like with a quick race in a Nissan GT-R at Nürburgring.
That clip also shows off something else: Forza Motorsport 7 finally brings dynamic weather to the series. It goes way beyond the simple “rain” and “night” modes introduced in Forza 6 — every time you race, and even during the races (as you can see above), the weather will be different, and the tracks respond in kind. Puddles will build as the rain keeps pounding down, and severe heat in the game’s new featured track — Dubai — will affect how fast your tires wear, and more.
We also got an exclusive hands-on look at the game in the weeks leading up to E3, which you can read about in this feature. But here’s a short breakdown of what else to expect in Forza Motorsport 7:
Developing. Check out our E3 hub for all the news, trailers, and updates!
Porsche just announced the 911 GT2 RS, a monster of a real-wheel drive sports car with nearly 700 horsepower powered by a 3.8-liter twin-turbo engine. But the announcement didn’t come in Geneva, or Detroit, or even New York. No, the new Porsche was unveiled in Los Angeles, on the Electronic Entertainment Expo stage. Yes, Porsche just dropped a car at E3.
E3 isn’t the first place you’d expect one of the world’s biggest sports car brands to unveil a new car like the 911 GT2 RS. But then again, until this past year, you couldn’t drive a Porsche in most of the top-tier racing games because of an exclusive licensing deal with Electronic Arts. Now that that deal is dead, Porsche is showing up everywhere in the video game world — including the newly-announced Forza Motorsport 7.
In fact, the GT2 RS is the cover car for Forza 7, which comes out this fall on Project Scorpio, PC, and Xbox One. And while test mules of the car have been spotted (and even driven) for months, this was the first time the public’s seen the final thing.
This is just the latest — and one of the more extreme — example of the how the auto industry is reacting to being pulled in all sorts of new directions. Over the last few years, for example, the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas has become a venue for flashy car announcements to the point that it’s siphoned some of the excitement from the North American International Auto Show in Detroit.
Microsoft and Turn 10 studios have officially pulled the wraps off of Forza Motorsport 7, the first Forza designed to run on Xbox One X, Microsoft’s next-generation console. Last month, I went to Turn 10’s offices to see Forza ahead of its E3 debut. I spent a little under 30 minutes playing the game, and the rest of the trip speaking with the team that brought it to life.
A half hour isn’t enough time to provide a deep dive, but here’s what I can say. It’s the most beautiful Forza Motorsport ever. While it’s playable on Xbox One and will also be released on PC, it was really built for — and alongside the development of — what was then still called Project Scorpio, which means it will run natively at 60 frames per second at 4K resolution.
The cars look lifelike in most lighting, the tracks look good enough to walk around, and the skies in the demo were so picturesque I occasionally had a hard time watching the road. Speaking as someone who has an old 1080p screen on his wall, this is the kind of game that will make people like me think: maybe this is the year I buy a better TV.
There’s also more of, well, everything. Turn 10 is offering 700 cars at launch, nearly lapping the 450 from Forza Motorsport 6 — and that includes the return of Porsche. There are 30 tracks (or locations) with more than 200 different configurations for players to run. The weather and night modes that were added in Forza 6 are no longer just modes: there’s a fully dynamic weather system that changes with every race, sometimes even during the race. You can see the horizon shimmer in the distance on hot tracks. The puddles now change in real time when it pours, and on some tracks you can see the rain approaching off in the distance.
Forza 7 primarily leverages the new console’s power in order to emphasize realism. Wires, tubes, and the mirrors inside the cockpits of the race cars rattle in response to the bumps on the tarmac. Window netting ripples in the periphery as the wind whips by at 100 miles per hour. Even the windshield wipers shake as you barrel around a course.
While Turn 10 hasn’t radically redefined the racing game, Forza 7 looks, at first glance, like a considerable visual upgrade compared to its last two predecessors. But it won’t be the only racing game to run at 4K and 60p for long. So instead, the studio has been working on an entirely new challenge: making its car game more human.
A bell rings.
I’m at Turn 10’s headquarters, which is tucked into a business park hugged by trees about a drag race away from Microsoft’s home base in Redmond, Washington. And when I ask what the bell’s for, nobody's quite sure. The team’s so burdened by E3 prep that they’ve forgotten their Pavlovian responses.
“We’ve been basically living here, so if you smell some smells — forgive us,” Dan Greenawalt, Forza’s creative director and a founder of Turn 10, tells me when I walk through the door. There are 18 days until Greenawalt will hop on stage at E3 to show off what the studio has spent the last two years working on. As if that’s not enough weight on their shoulders, Forza Motorsport 7 is a Scorpio launch title, so it will serve as an early standard bearer for the console.
Eventually I learn the bell was for some newly-met goal, but nobody takes a moment to really celebrate. They’re too giddy talking about the game. Spirits are up in Redmond. The team seems surprisingly rested, composed, and focused. That’s because Turn 10 is in the most enviable position for a game developer: Forza 7 is ahead of schedule.
Not only has the game been running on Scorpio dev kits for a while now, it’s been running really well. At one point, I tried basically the same tech demo the folks at Digital Foundry wrote about, where the full field of cars was locked to a grid like a roller coaster, putting more of them in view than you’d typically see during a race. This is one way the software team tests the game’s limits, and yet it was only pushing about 80 percent of the GPU and about 70 percent of the CPU.
That’s impressive for a game that’s months away from release. Of the time I spent playing and watching other parts of Forza 7, the only truly unfinished bits visible to me were some of the menu graphics.
Forza 7 wouldn’t be this far along if it wasn’t for the partnership Turn 10 started a few years ago with UK-based Playground Studios, which makes the more arcade-style Forza Horizon series using the same Forza Tech game engine that Motorsport is built on. By staggering the release of Horizon in the years where there is no Motorsport, the teams are able to share knowledge and accelerate the pace of development.
Chris Tector, the team’s software architect, calls that decision a turning point for the franchise. “We can actually share those features back and forth between the titles, and it means both of them can become better with each release, more than they would if they were being developed in isolation,” Tector says.
It’s this approach that carved out room to add features like dynamic weather and an entirely new character component, Greenawalt explains, while also dramatically increasing the number of cars and tracks — all as the team preps the game engine to run in 4K.
“You go, hey, I've got this great team that can build anything. Let's not have them build everything,” says Greenawalt. “It allows that big team, instead of trying to just boil the ocean and do everything, they focus all that innovation in one place and can go in incredible areas.”
The other big piece to getting Forza 7 ahead of schedule, though, is that Turn 10 has been developing the new game alongside Project Scorpio since the beginning. For a while, Turn 10 used simulations of the Scorpio hardware. Eventually, though, it came time to fire up the game on the real thing.
“I was coming back from lunch and [Tector] came over, and he was vibrating,” says Alan Hartman, the studio head for Turn 10. “He was like, ‘we're running on Scorpio, you want to see it?’” Hartman followed him over to a conference room that had its windows blacked out. “I come in and I see the fan pointed at the circuit board and the ribbon cables strung out and brought around to the monitor. And sure enough, there we are, running.”
Running smoothly, even. “Typically,” Hartman says, “you get it working, and it's running at 10 frames a second, and you go ‘okay, now I have to work weekends to get it working fast.’ It's super advantageous, because we get to focus on the game, not trying to build the tech layer.”
“We talk a lot about finding the fun,” Greenawalt adds. “You do all this work so that you're starting from a pretty fun place, but let's be honest — it's a hypothetical fun place until you get [the game] in your hands. And when you’re fighting the technology, just to get it to run, getting it stable, you can't find that fun, because it's all coming together at the last second.”
Scorpio has already been touted for its head-spinning specs ahead of the official reveal. It cranks 6 teraflops of power, has 12GB of GDDR5 RAM, and a custom GPU that runs at 1172MHz. All which means it’s set to be the most powerful home console on the market.
That power is great for the looks and performance. But Turn 10's true focus in Forza Motorsport 7 is on something that raw power can't guarantee, something that will be a part of Forza going forward no matter which version you play.
While many of the people at Turn 10 appear well-rested, the mottled hair and the bags under Scott Lee’s eyes are a sign some have definitely lost some sleep over Forza 7. As the lead art director, Lee’s been shepherding one of the game’s most defining features: the addition of customizable characters.
Lee’s small character team has funneled a ton of effort into creating absurd levels of detail for the now more prominent driver, by building out a catalog of racing suits, helmets, gloves, and more. The game has over 300 character designs, and about a week or more of work went into each. There are female and male models, and different “silhouettes,” or body types, for both, each of which took around five weeks to design.
What’s more, each one of the five discrete pieces that makes up a character (the helmet, the suit, etc.) has its own 4K asset. Zoom in on a helmet and you’ll see realistic scuffs and smudges on the visor — and on some special helmets, signatures that look like they were just Sharpie-d on.
That might sound like a strange amount of attention spent on something you won’t see much of while you’re racing. But for a good chunk of Forza Motorsport 7, you actually will see your driver. Turn 10 has completely revamped its menu system to put an emphasis on showing off these characters. For example, the pre-race screen that shows up before you start a multiplayer race is now fashioned more like a loadout screen in a shooting game. There are menu options on the left, and your character stands swaying on the right, as if she’s itching to hop in and drive.
Characters will also show up at the ends of races, podium-style, with the winner front and center looking proud, and the third-place finisher turned slightly away from the camera as if they’re already plotting revenge. Your character’s look will even now represent you when you show up in friends’ games as “drivatars,” a feature introduced back in Forza 5.
Players will be able to choose between everything from real race suits with HANS devices, to old-timey outfits with leather helmets, to some even goofier additions from pop culture. (Expect a lot of “era-specific inside jokes,” Lee laughs. “There's a lot of middle-aged people that work here.”) With Forza featuring real racing series like IndyCar and NASCAR, you can also expect to see some more iconic suits as well, set to be announced later this summer.
While diehard fans are always going to want more cars and tracks, the game has long passed the point where it lacked in either of those departments. One thing it has been missing, though, is a way for players to represent themselves beyond the badge on a car’s hood. Bringing characters front and center seems to be a reaction to that critique, a step towards making players care more about what, and how, they do in the game.
“I think [the characters] might be the coolest opportunity for us to really kind of depart from Forzas in the past,” Lee says, though he admits it won’t be as deep as the character creation tools in other sports games. And it isn’t as focused on story as something like Madden’s new Longshot mode. But he thinks it’s a good foundation on which to build. “I think it's really kind of a nod to where we want to go with the franchise,” Lee explains. “I feel like the car becomes a lot more personal, it's ‘oh it belongs to somebody, it's something.’”
Looks are a huge part of Forza, but you don’t play racing games on mute. Sound is crucial to an immersive experience, and so even Chase Combs, the game’s audio director, has spent the last two years trying to find ways to make Forza 7 grab the attention of your ears as much as your eyes. That starts with abandoning the sweeping cinematic score of Forza 6 in favor of a soundtrack you might mistake for what’s found in modern-day beer commercials.
“We ended up kind of going with something that felt a little more rooted in what you might hear in a garage, you know? That automotive spirit,” Combs says.
But Combs and his team went further than just shifting genres. The music in the game (which you can customize with your own songs if you’re not big fan of power chords) follows you as you hop around the different environments. It also dynamically adapts to those environments.
Go from the main menus to the garage to start tuning one of your cars, and suddenly the music sounds like it’s coming from a radio on the other side of the room. Hop into Forzavista mode, get in the car, and it will muffle. Jump over to the car selection menu, where your character is standing on a stage, and the music sounds like it’s coming through stadium speakers.
This follows through to the races, too. As you drive around each course, the game’s soundtrack will flash by you as you pass the track’s speakers.
“A goal of mine,” Combs says, was to “make [the music] a character in the game, not just something that we lay on top of the game and people kind of turn off. I wanted to make it feel like it was actually seated in the environment.”
It’s a slick effect, but music is less than half the battle when it comes to the sound of a racing game. The cars need to sound as real as they look, too.
“We think audio is critical component of that sense of speed and the kind of violent or exciting nature of racing. At times it's complete cacophony, tons of noise, rocks hitting the underbody of the car,” he says. “With race cars in particular, you have no noise insulation, and so it's just like this like giant resonating metal box.”
To get all that right, Turn 10 struck up a partnership with Warner Brothers, which got them access to some of the more rare cars that appear in the game. “We could come to them with a list of cars, and they could just go off and do all that,” Combs says. “Getting an actual race transmission has always been a challenge for us and we think that's a critical component of what a race car sounds like.”
The end result is a game that sounds remarkably lifelike without all the different layers — the screaming engines, squealing tires, doors slamming, and the rock soundtrack — muddying each other up. You can hear the air being sucked into the engine at the same time that, say, your tires hit the gravel when you slip off the curbing of a track. There’s enough space in the mix for the click-thud of shifting gears, the raindrops hitting the windshield, and the spray coming off the tires to play together, not against each other.
Of course, Combs shows me all this in one of his small sound editing studios. So what about the rest of us schmucks playing through the tiny, drilled speaker holes on our flatscreens?
That’s a question Combs thinks a lot about, he says, especially when it comes to car crashes. “There is an initial instinct when you're making collision sounds to try to just, like I'm gonna juice the bass. But we know that with those speakers, anything below 200 hertz or more, [they] just can't reproduce it,” he says.
Combs has a switch on his desk that he can flip to funnel the sound through two desktop speakers, and that his team will often head out to one of the common areas and use the TVs there. That way, hopefully, their work can be heard no matter where you play. Good audio doesn’t sell games, but Turn 10 hopes it will be just as engaging as the new characters, and as exciting as the cars themselves.
Adding customizable characters and doing tricky things with the sound might seem ancillary to the core Forza experience. But with Scorpio letting the team max out the graphics and the racing engine, these are the ways Turn 10 is trying to grow its customer base beyond the 4 million players it already claims.
How do you do that? Well, for one thing, this will be the first full Forza title available on PC. There, the company hopes to court the same increasingly diverse sets of players (namely: women and kids, but also competitors in the Forza Championship series) that it says has come to the game on Xbox in recent years. One way of doing that will be through sheer compatibility — Turn 10 says it has tested everything from PlayStation DualShocks to pro racing wheels to Guitar Hero controllers, and all of them work with Forza 7 on PC.
And yes, Forza is more approachable these days. It’s tempting to think of Horizon as the game for non-racers, and Motorsport for the diehards. But the number of driver assists and the freeing up of the campaign has made Motorsport almost as accessible to new players. There will be more of that in Forza Motorsport 7. One particular new option is a “friction assist,” which lets the player turn up or down how severely they’ll be affected by driving off track.
“For some players, if you've got licensed cars, and you've got realistic graphics, you are as realistic as is required,” Greenawalt says. “We keep pushing the physics system further and further and further, and I think it's understandable that people would go ‘wow, if you do that then you've made it inaccessible.’ That's not been the case.” Or, as Hartman puts it, “realism and punishing don't have to go together.”
In that way, Turn 10 is redefining realism. Or at the very least, widening the focus of the definition to include the more human aspects of being a racer: the way your body jostles in the seat, the sound and fury that comes with pushing a car to its limits, the silly stickers that can be plastered over a helmet. Forza Motorsport 7 is all about creating the feeling that you’re a great driver — whether or not the computer’s helping.
That’s why Greenawalt thinks pushing for unpolished realism through things like scuffed helmets and garage-speaker sound is so important. Turn 10 has already mastered making glossy racing games. To grow, it has to stop buffing out the dings that make things feel familiar and real. “What makes cars more relatable is the human hands that made them, and yes, those create imperfections,” he says. “But it's the imperfections that really bring it to life.”

Edited by Chris Plante and Casey Newton.



After months of speculation, Microsoft is unveiling its “Project Scorpio” games console today, and it's officially named Xbox One X. Microsoft's Xbox One X naming comes just days after the company trademarked a mysterious S logo, and started dropping Scorpio hints in its E3 teaser videos. Microsoft is planning to launch the Xbox One X on November 7th worldwide, priced at $499.
All existing Xbox One accessories will work on the new Xbox One X — which we got to see first-hand at E3 today — alongside all existing Xbox 360 backwards compatible titles and Xbox One games. Microsoft is planning to use "super sampling" on the One X to make new games look better even on 1080p TVs.
Related
The new console will ship with 6 teraflops of graphical power, more than its main competitor, the PS4 Pro, with 4.2 teraflops. Microsoft is using a custom GPU engine on Scorpio that runs at 1172MHz, a big increase over the Xbox One’s 853MHz and even Sony’s 911MHz found on the PS4 Pro. Microsoft is also shipping the Xbox One X with an Ultra HD Blu-ray drive for 4K movies and entertainment, and 1TB of storage.
Microsoft has previously promised that 900p and 1080p Xbox One games should be able to run at native 4K on the Xbox One X, and that existing Xbox One and 360 games will see a noticeable performance boost. Scorpio also features liquid-cooled vapor-chamber cooling inside, a technology that's used on high-end PC gaming cards like the GTX 1080.
Microsoft says the new Xbox One X is the "smallest Xbox ever," and the black design looks very similar to the existing Xbox One S model. The rear of Microsoft’s new console is based on the Xbox One S, with a HDMI-in port and no dedicated Kinect port. There aren't many external changes over the Xbox One S design, and the X simply gets a little smaller. For now, Microsoft is only shipping the Xbox One X with the black design and 1TB of storage.
One of the first titles for the new console is Forza Motorsport 7, running at native 4K and 60fps. For a closer look at the latest Forza, check out our feature or watch exclusive gameplay below. Forza Motorsport 7 will debut on October 3rd.
Microsoft has 22 "console launch exclusives" arriving on the Xbox One X, including Crackdown 3, Forza Motorsport 7, and Sea of Thieves. Microsoft's Xbox chief, Phil Spencer, introduced a number of new titles and left most of the company's E3 press conference up to the games themselves. Microsoft is even bringing original Xbox games to the Xbox One family, starting with Crimson Skies.
Gears of War 4, Forza Horizon 3, Killer Instinct, Halo Wars 2, and Minecraft will all be updated free of charge to 4K support. Microsoft also has more than 30 third-party titles that will be updated with the Xbox One X Enhanced program. The new Xbox One X will now debut worldwide on November 7th, priced at $499, £449, 499 euro, 599 Canadian dollars, and 649 Australian dollars.
Microsoft is expected to unveil a name and details for its Project Scorpio device during its E3 2017 press event, beginning at 5PM ET. The presentation is expected to run longer than 90 minutes, which seems to indicate that we’re in for quite a lot of information about the hardware, along with numerous announcements for its upcoming games. Follow along for all of the updates, videos, and gameplay.
Moscow is home to the Exhibition of Achievements of National Economy, an enormous recreation and museum complex. One of its buildings is decked out with a spectacular exterior that’s designed to look like the conductive tracks on a circuit board.
The building in question is the Pavilion of Moscow Information Technology Department, a 1,600 square meter presentation space that showcases Russia’s electrical achievements. Russian architectural firm Wall designed the exterior of the pavilion in 2016, according to Dezeen. The outer panels were formed out of concrete in a local factory, and house an exhibition space, business center, and children’s play area.
Архитектурное бюро WALL |
[МАТРИЦА] | павильон [ДИТ] | ВДНХ | барельеф | бетон | 2016
Архитектурное бюро  WALL |
[МАТРИЦА] | павильон [ДИТ] | ВДНХ | барельеф | бетон | 2016
The structure is supposed to stand for another ten years, and the result is really something. The detailing adds an intriguing texture to the walls, which lends itself nicely to the purpose of the building itself: promoting the country’s technological achievements.
Related
Who says a wheel has to be round? On the Aston Martin DB11 steering wheel, square is the new round.
I use the description “square” loosely. It’s not a perfect square, but rather it tapers off in more pronounced angle in the tradition of the 820 horsepower Vulcan supercar and its smart steering wheel. Thick and sculptural, it was the first thing I noticed when I climbed into the cockpit to test drive this James Bond-inspired sports car. The shape of the DB11 wheel gives this $214,000 vehicle a sense of purpose.
The wheel is cast in an oblong shape, which means that you can also see more of the dashboard and the pedals peeking through. Its coated in hand-stitched, buttery caramel leather, which emphasizes the embossed wings of the Aston Martin logo. The effect is stunning and it’s almost as if the wheel is beckoning you to climb in and take it for a spin. And what this form adds to the interior is a powerful message to a driver in the age of smart-phone distraction: keep your hands at nine and three o’clock.
It’s not the first time Aston Martin has toyed with this squarish-round shape. It’s gleaned from the rare 2010 one-77 hyper car of which 77 examples were made, and is now standard on the DB11 flagship. Until now, this wheel shape has only been sold as a pricy option available on the Vanquish. On the DB11, this obtuse wheel is the first of its kind equipped with electric power-assisted steering. Memories of the not-so-amazing Ford steering wheel used on an early 2000s Vantage model over a decade ago are placed in the distant rear view mirror.
The lush shape also helps distract from the physical black controls placed on the side, which are the most the company has used in a production car, and include the thumb buttons that maneuver transmission modes, the home screen, telephone, volume knob, and are all part and parcel of the brand’s technical partnership with Daimler. The plasticky black paddle controls are tucked neatly behind the wheel, ensuring that your hands never stray far.
It’s easy to overlook details such as the shape of the wheel on a car that boasts a stunning exterior, designed by Marek Reichman and his team. In reality, car designers agonize over these complex and highly engineered bits for hours. The steering wheel engages multiple senses. Its tactile feel is the key connection between the driver and the road. In the case of a sports car like the DB11, it’s the connection between the joy of opening up the engine and laying down the throttle as you’re coming out of an apex of a turn into a straightway, or perhaps breezing by the water along the Amalfi coast, zipping from 0 to 60 miles per hour in 4 seconds flat.
The steering wheel has its own history independent of the automobile. Steering wheels were first widely used on 19th century ships. But the image of a captain navigating a wheel large in diameter to bring his ship to shore is far removed from the slick wheels we see in contemporary sports car. Steering in the first motor cars were controlled by levers, which gave way to wooden wheels. While Francis W Davis invented power steering in the 1920s, the feature didn’t become popular in cars until the 1950s, after hydraulics systems were popularized and Chrysler used it in the Imperial. But in recent years, Aston Martin, like many automakers, has switched to electric power assisted steering, which means that an electric motor controls the wheel. While the jury is still out on the responsiveness, these systems are only getting better and more accurate than the hydraulic counterparts.
But technical performance and function aside, the exterior shape of the wheel in this case is more referential. In recent times, the evolution of the wheel is closely tied to motorsports, and what gives the driver the ability to maneuver most efficiently in both Formula One and GT racing. Marshall Pruett reported for Road & Track, “In abstract terms, there are few components on a racing car that have changed more and become almost unrecognizable since the sport was in its infancy more than a decade ago.”
The steering wheel is one of many beautiful bits on the DB11, a car that has grace and visceral power, as well as other remarkable details such as full LED headlamps. In contemporary cars, the wheel is what guides the driving experience. Of course the concept of a steering wheel in passenger cars, may one day be one of pure nostalgia as we move into the age of autonomous driving. Many of the self-driving car prototypes are cars with no steering wheels at all.

Star Wars: Battlefront got more than its fair share of hype when it launched two years ago. The prospect of a multiplayer game set in the world of the original Star Wars trilogy, from the developer behind the Battlefield series, seemed too good to be true. As it turned out, it kinda was.
While the early-release Battle of Hoth was exciting, over time the clunkiness of the flying missions, the simplistic weapons and skills options, and the total lack of a single-player campaign hampered the game’s staying power. Now it’s time for the sequel, and judging from the push here at E3, the sole purpose of Star Wars: Battlefront II is to address the many concerns of fans and gamers. (How much so? Andrew Wilson, CEO of EA, mentioned the “constructive” negative feedback the game had received during his opening remarks at the company’s big press event, EA Play.)
After spending some time with both the single-player campaign and the multiplayer mode in Battlefront II, I can confidently say that the game does indeed try to tackle the biggest problems that upset players the first time around. Judging whether or not it’s actually successful, however, is going to require a lot more than the fan-friendly glimpses we were shown today.
The most intriguing addition to Battlefront II is its new single-player campaign. As announced at Star Wars Celebration this year, the story tracks Iden Versio, an elite Imperial special forces officer that sets out to avenge the death of The Emperor. The story tracks the 30-year span between Return of the Jedi and J.J. Abrams’ The Force Awakens, providing developer Motive Studios plenty of room to explore. (The game was written in collaboration with Lucasfilm’s Story Group, and will be considered canon within the larger Star Wars universe.)
The brief 15-minute sequence I played began with a cut-scene, set not long after Iden witnesses the destruction of the second Death Star. She visits her father, a high-ranking Imperial officer, and immediately echoes Rogue One by telling him that it is “hope” that keeps any cause alive. A Messenger from The Emperor — a red-cloaked creature with a video screen for a face; he’s the one that shows up at the end of the latest trailer — relays the fallen ruler’s last order, and then it’s off to the gameplay. First I took over as Iden in a TIE Fighter, and then went on a sabotage mission inside a Rebel Blockade Runner.
The first thing I thought while in the midst of the space battle was, well, that the whole thing felt like Battlefront. Not in a negative way; the flying controls were tighter and certainly more nuanced, and the on-screen prompts that guided me from objective to objective during the massive battle were more well-laid out than what I’d grown used to in the first game. But the essential style of gameplay was still the same; it was basically just a tweaked version of the multiplayer game, with thin bookends of narrative.
Flying into the Rebel ship and taking out a fleet of X-Wings in the hangar bay — not to mention the scurrying Rebels themselves — was a different situation. I actually felt bad for a moment, mercilessly massacring a group of what have always been the “good guys.” It was just a twinge, but a moment I noticed nevertheless. Part of what’s interesting about the Iden story is that players will be taking on the role of the Empire, which could provide for some interesting emotional dynamics depending on how effective the storytelling itself actually is.
Once inside the Rebel ship, I ran around, killed lots of Rebels, and took out the ship’s three ion cannons. Iden has a cute flying droid that helps her from moment to moment, taking out Rebels and opening doors. It was all perfectly well-done, but there was no moment that stood out as particularly exciting or innovative. The end of the mission led right into another cut-scene, giving the impression that this mode will simply be a collection of streamlined, on-rails missions with cutscene connective tissue. Only time will tell.
Visually, the game is a pleasant jump up from the original Battlefront. The level of detail in the cut scenes were particularly noticeable. The texture of the uniform Iden’s father wears, the stitched shoulders of her own clothing; the details popped off the screen. The aesthetic enhancements extended to the gameplay as well. Noticeably improved was the animation used for the different Rebel soldiers. Whether they were dodging back and forth away from my laser bolts, or falling to the ground, there movements looked far more realistic and varied than anything in the first game — though again, it’s hard to get a sense of just how varied without really digging into the game.
With all of the focus that’s been put on Iden’s story, however, it was disappointing to see just how little about that aspect of the game was actually revealed. The mission I played was fun, but it didn’t leave me necessarily feeling emotionally invested in Iden, committed to taking her through 30 years of intergalactic mischief. It played like a one-off, siloed mission without any larger context: exactly what it was. Hopefully the shipping game will be far richer in that regard — there’s only so much you can get from a demo of a single mission — but after playing I was left with as many questions about the single-player campaign as I had beforehand. (Speaking of unanswered questions, representatives weren’t willing to discuss how long the single-player campaign actually will be — a thing to keep in mind for people considering pre-ordering the game sight unseen.)
The original Battlefront tried to be a multiplayer game for the masses, and in the process lacked the depth, customizability, and precision that seasoned gamers have come to expect. Various updates after the original release tried to address some of these problems, though all they really did was turn the game into a convoluted mess. Battlefront II seems to have been conceived from the ground up to be a title that multiplayer game lovers will actually enjoy playing, and it starts with the new class system: players can choose between four different types of player, including specialists (for those that love to snipe or set trip mines), infantry (for those that like the blaster and thermal detonator approach), or heavy infantry (for fans of much bigger guns). Over time, players will be able to customize their characters, though in the demo the loadout options were kept simply to class choices and two different weapon types.
For Star Wars fans, a big part of the appeal is going to be the ability to play multiplayer matches in any era of the Star Wars saga. As shown off in EA’s livestream, the multiplayer demo was the Assault on Theed, a conflict from Episode I: The Phantom Menace. The irony there is that in the lead-up to The Force Awakens, it seemed as if Disney was doing everything it could to pretend the prequel films never existed. Now that the franchise is rolling again, however, Battlefront II is hoping to entice players by letting them play as Battle Droids and Clone Troopers.
As with the single-player campaign, multiplayer in Battlefront II feels like a refined, optimized, and better-looking version of the first game. One dramatic change, however, is the way in which players can take on the roles of iconic Star Wars characters. In the original title, it simply required finding a token somewhere on the battlefield. In Battlefront II, players collect “battle points” as they go through a given match. Collect a certain number of points, and they can then deploy as a more powerful character — from a heavily armored droid, to someone like Rey or Boba Fett.
During the Theed demo, I played briefly as Han Solo. There’s a mix-and-match feel to Battlefront II’s multiplayer that I think is going to overjoy some fans, and infuriate others. On one hand, it was amazing to see Darth Maul slaughter a bevy of Clone Troopers in the match, even though Maul was never part of that particular conflict. (I only wish I’d had a chance to play as the character; his speed and efficiency in ruthless slaughter was impressive). It was equally fun to see Rey running around with her lightsaber — showing off the kind of skilled moves we’ll no doubt see her display in The Last Jedi. The problem with Rey showing up, however, is that it actually doesn’t make any sense to see her on Naboo, given that the battle took place some 60 years before she ever left Jakku.
I know what you’re saying, and you’re right. Realism has never really been the goal of Battlefront’s multiplayer mode — when the first game launched, Return of the Jedi Luke was the one that would spawn in the Hoth battle from The Empire Strikes Back. When you open that up to such a vast span of time, though, it’s going to be a tad jarring. But it also seems to be the logical choice, particularly with a single-player narrative in place to give players a sense of continuity.
DLC was a big part of the first game, adding locations like Cloud City and the Death Star (and allowing the game to eventually tie into Rogue One). We didn’t get a chance to experience any DLC at E3, but the company did break some news.
Surprising no one, the first installment of DLC for Battlefront II will be for The Last Jedi, and will bring both John Boyega’s Finn and Gwendoline Christie’s Captain Phasma to the game as playable characters, along with the planet of Crait. (That’s the new planet seen in the film’s first trailer.) But the DLC will be free — as will every subsequent chapter of DLC for Battlefront II.
Given that EA relied on the a la carte and season pass models for the last game, it’s a big departure. What wasn’t discussed during the presentation, however, was that Battlefront II will instead try to cash in through microtransactions. According to a report from The Wall Street Journal, players will be able to buy packages of cards that they can then use to upgrade their characters within the game.
But issues of monetization and long-term playability are different than the core question of whether the game is going to deliver on its many promises. From what I was able to play, there’s no doubt that Star Wars: Battlefront II is trying to address most of the issues from the original game. But in reality, all that was really shown was a little taste; a carefully curated glimpse designed to give players that very impression. It’s the nature of early previews like this to only give off a hint of a game’s potential, so that shouldn’t come as a particular shock — but it seems somewhat unique given the marketing message of Battlefront II.
Not that it will matter all that much anyway. It’s Star Wars. It will sell millions of copies just because of those clips of Darth Maul taking out Clone Troopers. And I’m not gonna lie: it did look pretty cool.
In recent years, free libraries have popped up across the country in an effort to bring access to books to local communities. Detroit is now home to a new free library in the form of a replica TARDIS from the BBC show Doctor Who.
The library is a life-sized replica of the time traveling Doctor’s famous time machine. Dan Zemke explained that he wanted to do something with the empty lot across the street from his home in Detroit, and decided to construct a free library that combined two of his passions: the BBC television show and reading.
Zemke told The Verge that a reading program called Reach-Out-and-Read at his workplace helped inspire the project. “That program ensures that every child that comes into the [Advantage Health Center] leaves with a book.” When he began thinking about building a TARDIS replica, he noted that he wanted it to be useful to the community. “It hit me to combine my work's reading program with the TARDIS project to make a creative outlet for books in the community.”
He pitched the idea to his father, who has a workshop with “any and every tool that you can imagine.” The two began work last Labor Day, and were aided by an online building community called Tardis Builders. “Whenever we got stuck on a particular part of the TARDIS,” he said, “we would look on the forums to see what other people did.” The final structure stands almost 10 feet tall, weighs almost a ton, and its front shelves holds around 140 books.
When visitors open the library’s front doors, they’re greeted with some panels with a painted mural that depicts the TARDIS’s interior layout under the Twelfth Doctor, Peter Capaldi. “We wanted to give people a sense that they were looking into the actual interior,” he explained. “You can slide the mural panels to reveal shelves on the other side and to take [or] leave a book.”
Part of that design is practical: given the size of the box, he didn’t want it to be misused, so he “came up with the idea for this false wall at the front to stop people from living in [it]. We also put more shelving in the back to hold more reserve books and to limit space.”
Once the replica was finished in early June, Zemke installed it in a lot owned by his brother on corner of Vermont Street and Warren West Avenue in Detroit. “I wanted to help make our neighborhood a bit cooler and make that spot somewhere that people would want to check out. Plus, who doesn't want a life-size TARDIS in their community?”
Since its installation, Zemke says that the library has received considerable attention from pedestrians and drivers, with families, teachers and other fans stopping by to check it out. “Foot traffic has been pretty huge for a lesser-known street off a major road in Detroit,” he explains. “It’s been a really positive experience so far.” The library is now open, and visitors are welcome to take a book, or leave behind one of their own.

We’re through the “first day” of E3, pre-show floor, where every major video game company shows off the next year or two of Things You’ll Play. EA is done, and today starts with Microsoft and ends with Bethesda.
Although the show floor doesn’t open until Tuesday, the press conferences — i.e. where the companies announce and release trailers for everything — begin this Saturday, and they’re all being streamed live so that you can enjoy from home. Here’s when / where you can watch the biggest events, and what you can expect from each.
Related
When: Saturday, June 10th at 12PM PT / 3PM ET
What: You want Star Wars? EA will have at least one, maybe two games to show off. You want sports? EA will have sports — including the first FIFA game for Switch (although it won’t necessarily be the same as everyone else’s FIFA). Do you want more Sims?? I mean, it’s EA — there’ll probably be Sims, too.
How to watch: Watch EA’s live stream on Twitch or YouTube.
When: Sunday, June 11th at 2PM PT / 5PM ET
What: Scorpio. Scorpio. Scorpio. Maybe Halo. Maybe not VR. Scorpio.
How to watch: Microsoft is providing a myriad ways to watch this year, including 4K options on YouTube and Mixer.  You can also watch on Twitch, Facebook, Twitter, your Xbox, and Fuse — yes, the TV channel.
When: Sunday, June 11th at 9PM PT / 12AM ET
What: Bethesda’s been teasing at least two new games in the form of a cartoon “Bethesdaland” map with two sections still “under construction.” Rumor has it we’ll finally be seeing Starfield, a sci-fi open-universe RPG, along with several sequels to the company’s big franchises. And if past years are any indication, there’ll be a surprise mobile game releasing shortly after the final musical act (yes, there’s a musical act).
How to watch: Watch Bethesda’s live stream on Twitch or YouTube.
#BE3 is less than a week away! Join us Sunday night at 9PM PT to see what's new from Bethesda! pic.twitter.com/7uvHMmB04Q
When: Monday, June 12th at 10AM PT / 1PM ET
What: Polygon has a good rundown of the show, which features a wide variety of developers big and small.
How to watch: Watch the showcase live on Twitch, Facebook or YouTube
When: Monday, June 12th at 1PM PT / 4PM ET
What: Far Cry 5 is already poised to be one of the more controversial games of the show, and the rumored Rabbids / Mario crossover will almost assuredly be the most disturbing. Ubisoft is also rumored to be showing off Assassin’s Creed: Origins — not as controversial — and confirmed to be talking about the delayed South Park sequel.
How to watch: Watch Ubisoft’s live stream on Twitch
When: Monday, June 12th at 6PM PT / 9PM ET
What: Last year, Sony showed off an impressive slate of games: Death Stranding, Spider-Man, Days Gone, The Last of Us Part 2 and a new God of War. None of which, by the way, have come out yet, so expect to see more of each this year along with more and more games. After all, it’s what Sony does best at E3.
How to watch: Watch Sony’s live stream on Twitch or YouTube
When: Tuesday, June 13th at 9AM PT / 12PM ET
What: As with Breath of the Wild last year, Nintendo’s floor space at E3 will be almost exclusively focused on Mario Odyssey, and the company’s Nintendo Direct stream will probably spend a good chunk of time on the game, too, along with Splatoon 2 and maybe a new Fire Emblem. As for what beloved franchise Nintendo brings to the Switch next as a surprise announcement, while we’d love that to be Super Smash Bros., there’s no telling when Nintendo wants to bring to the Switch next until a Mii version of its executives announces it.
How to watch: Watch Nintendo Direct on Twitch or YouTube
Wilderness is nice, but hands down, the number one reason to go camping is to incinerate food over a fiery pit. Everything tastes better when it’s burned over flames, especially marshmallows. But before you dip your ‘mallow-tipped toasting fork in the campfire, here are a few things you should know:
Marshmallows are mainly sugar, but air actually makes up more than half their volume. They’re made by beating together gelatin or another gel-forming ingredient with a hot sugary syrup. Beating the mixture creates air bubbles, which become trapped as the liquid mixture cools into a gel — creating the spongy texture.
Those bubbles are why Peeps explode in the microwave, and flaming marshmallows swell on the end of a toasting fork. Hotter temperatures makes the air trapped inside the marshmallow expand and take up more space, forcing the flexible sugary mixture to stretch. Eventually, if the pressure is too much? Kaboom.
But take the marshmallow out of the heat, and it’ll deflate — although the stretched out gelatin doesn’t bounce back. “It shrinks to a shriveled mass,” Richard Hartel, a food scientist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, tells The Verge in an email. “Don't get me started on Peeps jousting.”
Well, maybe not burnt — but definitely toasted. Heating the marshmallow over the fire can make the sugar caramelize, a chemical reaction that produces the brown color and toasted flavor. It requires really high temperatures, so microwaving your marshmallow isn’t going to cut it.
“Many foods don't get hot enough when they cook for caramelization (like bread),” food chemistry professor Matt Hartings at American University tells The Verge in an email. “Marshmallows certainly do over a fire.”
When the sugar gets hot enough, it starts to break down into smaller molecules that then react with one another. These reactions produce new fruity, nutty, and buttery flavors you can taste and smell on your toasted marshmallow. They also turn the marshmallow skin that satisfying golden color.
Certain sugars may also react with amino acids in the gelatin in what’s known as the Maillard reaction. It occurs at much lower temperatures than caramelization and contributes to the rich brown color and complex flavors of a seared steak, roasted coffee, or caramel candies. For marshmallows that are very slowly roasted, Hartel suspects that the Maillard reaction might be what’s producing their golden hue and general deliciousness.
Marshmallows start to melt when they heat up to just above body temperature, Hartings says. But if you’re not careful, you can completely burn the outside before the inside even gets warm. The heat of the fire shakes loose the chemical bonds in the gelatin that hold the candy together, which makes the marshmallow ooze.
So, whether you prefer marshmallows golden brown or charbroiled, don’t catch them on fire immediately if you want to maximize the gooeyness. “You've gotta be patient and slow for a while (letting the meltiness reach all the way to the insides). Then,” Hartings says, “you can torch the sucker.”
Bethesda is one of the most popular gaming developers around, with some of the biggest franchises in the industry under its umbrella, including The Elder Scrolls, Fallout, Dishonored, Prey, the rebooted Doom, Quake, and Wolfenstein. And while E3 technically doesn’t officially kick off until Tuesday, Bethesda (like most of the major companies) is kicking off things early with a press conference.
While there hasn’t been a ton of leaks indicating what Bethesda will be announcing this year, the biggest rumor points to Bethesda finally announcing Starfield, a long-rumored sci-fi game that takes the company’s iconic RPG gameplay and shoots it into space. Follow-ups to Wolfenstein: The New Order and The Evil Within are also both long overdue and could make an appearance at the show. Furthermore, the company’s “Bethesdaworld” E3 invitation featured two areas marked as “Coming soon” and “Under construction,” implying that we’ll probably see at least some new IPs this year at E3.
Related
Chances are we’ll at also least see more of the upcoming free-to-play Quake team shooter, Quake Champions, which was announced back at E3 2016. Additionally, there’ll probably be more information on the Nintendo Switch port of The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim that Nintendo briefly showcased when it launched the Switch earlier this year.
And who knows? Maybe Bethesda will pull a real surprise and announce something crazy, like Fallout 5 or a sixth Elder Scrolls game.
Here’s how to keep up with all the fun as it happens:
Starting time: San Francisco: 9PM / New York: 12AM / London: 5AM (June 13th) / Moscow: 7AM (June 13th) / Beijing: 12PM (June 13th) / Tokyo: 1PM (June 13th) / Sydney: 2PM (June 13th)
Live streaming: Watch Bethesda’s live stream on the Bethesda Twitch channel. Alternatively, you can watch it on the company’s official YouTube channel.
Live tweeting: Follow @Verge on Twitter for the latest headlines and specs as they emerge.
Instagram / Snapchat: Check out The Verge’s live updates on Instagram here and add us on Snapchat here, or by using our custom Snapcode below, for gaming stories and E3 news throughout the week.
After watching Alien: Covenant last week, I felt like I had to go back and revisit Prometheus. Not just because the backstory of Covenant is extremely confusing if you don't remember what happened (and I didn't), but because I remembered Prometheus taking a really different approach to its scares.
The difference between Prometheus and Covenant might be analogous to the difference between Alien and Aliens. It's the difference between films with big mysteries and long, drawn out tension, and films with huge action set pieces and sudden, visceral frights. My theory is that people will be drawn more toward one pair or the other, and I'm definitely a bigger fan of the former.
At the same time, I think it's really interesting how Ridley Scott is splitting the Alien series thematically between prequels and sequels. His two new films are about creation, while the originals focus more on corporate greed and militarism. It doesn't all add up perfectly for me, but I love that one long story is able to be pulled in two very different directions.
Check out 10 trailers from this week below.
On Friday, Marvel put out a very exciting first look at Black Panther. The teaser doubles as an intro to the series — setting up the nation of Wakanda and the many parties fighting for power — and as the kind of hype reel — full of amazing landscapes, cool poses, and very fun action — that continues to get audiences lining up for Marvel films. So far, this is looking like a very good one. It’s heading to theaters early next year, on February 16th.
Broad City has been off the air for more than a year, and while there are still two months to go before it returns, Comedy Central finally put out a look at its next season this week. And yeah, it looks like even more of what’s made Broad City into such a hit. Season four starts up on August 23rd.
Spike has a very creepy new trailer out for its adaptation of Stephen King's The Mist. It looks like another show about the apocalypse and people turning to and/or from religion in the face of the end times, but the series seems to be taking a distinctly scarier turn than most, which could help to set it apart. The show starts June 22nd.
Tom Cruise has re-teamed with Doug Liman, director of Edge of Tomorrow (and more notably, The Bourne Identity), for American Made, a raucous looking film based on the life of an actual drug smuggler / pilot / informant working for the US government and Pablo Escobar. This trailer makes it look like an eccentric, energetic ride, and I particularly like the sort of home video vibe it snaps into every now and then. It comes out September 29th.
Netflix has a pretty incredible looking documentary coming up that goes underwater to document the wonders of ocean life and the destruction being done to coral reefs across the globe. The film comes out July 14th.
Landline premiered at Sundance earlier this year to mixed but generally positive reviews. It's the second film from Gillian Robespierre, who directed Obvious Child and co-writes and directs here. It has a great cast, including Obvious Child star Jenny Slate, and it looks all at once funny, awkward, and kind of sweet. It comes out in limited release July 21st, expands August 4th, and will eventually hit Amazon.
Pixar put out another trailer for its colorful new film about a boy who gets trapped in the Land of the Dead. This trailer is shorter than the last, but it's a bit more explicit about what kind of movie we're in for. Then again, it's Pixar, so we kind of already know. Coco is directed by Lee Unkrich, of Toy Story 3, so there's some reason to keep expectations high. It comes out November 22nd.
Neill Blomkamp's Oats Studios put out a second trailer this week for its first collection of short sci-fi films. The format seems to have given Blomkamp space to play around with all kinds of strange aliens and ideas, and this second trailer really has me intrigued. (There's also a cameo from Sigourney Weaver.) No release date yet, but the studio still says it's all "streaming soon" on YouTube and Steam.
Killing Ground debuted to some good reviews at Sundance this year, and now the film is nearing in on a wide release. The movie has a pretty simple premise — it's about a couple whose camping retreat goes very, very wrong — but it looks seriously creepy in this trailer. It hits theaters and goes on demand July 21st.
Alejandro Jodorowsky's latest film is a surreal, autobiographical depiction of his early years as a poet in Chile. It looks bizarre and visually fascinating, and I can't help but be interested despite having very little idea what's going on here. Heads up: there's a minor amount of nudity and one giant, falling phallic light fixture, so take that into consideration before clicking play. The film comes out July 14th.

General Motors began selling its electric Chevy Bolt at the end of 2016 in California and Oregon, with a wider rollout planned for the spring of 2017. The company has confirmed that the vehicle will be available nationwide in August, according to Automotive News.
That’s slightly earlier than originally thought: GM planned to start selling the car nationwide in September. Chevrolet's marketing director for cars and crossovers, Steve Majoros, told reporters that dealers can now begin placing orders for the car, which will arrive by August.
Chevy delivered its first Bolt in December, and has gradually expanded sales to over a half-dozen additional states this spring. Majoros explained that the slower rollout has been to help control demand for the vehicle: “We think we're at the right level of sufficient inventory. We can keep feeding where there's a stronghold of sales."
The $30,000 (after a federal tax credit) car has an EPA-estimated range of 238 miles with a full charge, and is significantly cheaper than comparable electric vehicles. By moving its national sales up, Chevy will get even more of a head start on rival EV maker Tesla, which will release its Model 3 sometime in 2018.
Related
At E3 2017, Microsoft’s splashy, neon-soaked press conference will have a meaningful impact on the console industry. The company is expected to unveil the final consumer version of its Project Scorpio device, a new and improved Xbox One that should be capable of native 4K gaming and virtual reality support. How it compares to Sony’s existing PlayStation 4 Pro, and what it means for console gaming in the graphics and performance department, will a big point of discussion at E3 this year.
Microsoft’s press conference this year is a day earlier than usual: 5PM ET / 2PM PT on Sunday, June 11th. It’s also going to be a long one.
Xbox briefing Sunday will likely run longer than our traditional 90 mins. For those recording just a heads up. #XboxE3
While Microsoft has already confirmed that it won’t be talking about VR or its Windows 10 mixed reality headset platform at E3, we will absolutely get details on Scorpio — including possibly its name, pricing, and a release date. The company has even started teasing some key details, including a potential name (Xbox 10S) and release date (October 13th) hidden in YouTube videos released earlier this week. Also on the schedule will be news about upcoming exclusives and the usual updates on long-running franchises and well-known sequels, including a possible glimpse at Halo 6.
Starting time: San Francisco: 2PM / New York: 5PM / London: 10PM / Moscow: 12AM (June 12th) / Beijing: 5AM (June 12th) / Tokyo: 6AM (June 12th) / Sydney: 7AM (June 12th)
Live streaming: Watch Microsoft's live stream on the Xbox Twitch channel. Alternatively, you can watch it on the company’s official Xbox YouTube channel or on its own streaming service, Mixer.
Live tweeting: Follow @Verge on Twitter for the latest headlines and specs as they emerge.
Instagram / Snapchat: Check out The Verge’s live updates on Instagram here and add us on Snapchat here, or by using our custom Snapcode below, for Microsoft stories and E3 news throughout the week.
Father’s Day is quickly approaching — June 18th, to be exact — so this weekend is a great time to buy something nice for your dad if you haven’t already. We’ve gone through a large number of deals to select the seven best ones for you or your father, including two exclusive to The Verge for a limited time.
Announced this morning, Amazon devices got new discounts for Father’s Day that you’ll definitely want to check out. Also, Microsoft announced yesterday that it is knocking $50 off select bundles ahead of its Scorpio release at E3.
Let’s not waste anymore time and get straight to the deals:
Looking for gaming deals? Check out Polygon’s roundup here.
Good Deals is a weekly roundup of the best deals on the internet, curated by Vox Media's commerce editor, Chloe Reznikov, in collaboration with The Verge's editorial team. You can submit deals to deals@theverge.com and find more Good Deals here.
Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy.
This post has been updated on June 11th to include the Amazon devices and Microsoft Xbox One S deals.

Electronic Arts kicked off E3 2017 with a brand new Madden NFL story mode starring Mahershala Ali and ended with a very, very long look at Star Wars Battlefront II's multiplayer. In between was A Way Out, a split-screen prison break game from the creators of Brothers, a very fast and furious new Need for Speed, and a tease of Bioware’s new sci-fi franchise, Anthem, which we should learn more about tomorrow.
There were, alas, no Sims this year.




Electronic Arts’ E3 press conference today was light on announcements, but delivered a large chunk of multiplayer gameplay from its upcoming Star Wars title, Battlefront II. It will introduce a single-player storyline where its predecessor did not, but expect the game’s multiplayer to expand as well.
The time around, players will be able to select characters spanning the entire franchise, from Episode I: The Phantom Menace to Episode VII: The Force Awakens. In the gameplay segment shown on-stage, EA demonstrated the destructive power of Darth Maul, clones, droids, and a handful of quirky vehicles.
Star Wars Battlefront II launches November 17th.
The first of many E3 2017 press conferences has drawn to a tepid conclusion. Electronic Arts kicked off the year’s biggest week in gaming news with a handful of announcements on new games, as well as footage from the highly anticipated Star Wars: Battlefront II. Though it ended with a strange, lengthy multiplayer match and an ad for a mobile game.
The conference was light on announcements, but tried its best to make gameplay center stage. These are the five moments it really succeeded.
EA will release a new game from Hazelight — the studio founded by Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons creator Josef Fares — called A Way Out. It’s a co-op prison break game that you can only play in cooperative split-screen.
BioWare Edmonton has been working on a new, secret project thought to rival the likes of Activision’s Destiny. Today, we got our first look at it — and learned that it will be called Anthem.
EA had nothing to say about its long-rumored Star Wars open-world game, but the developer did have quite a lot to show from Star Wars: Battlefront II. The sequel to the 2015 action title will include characters reaching back to Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace. Players who’d rather skip the Darth Maul party can also play as characters from the ongoing trilogy, including Rey.
Madden NFL 18 will include a story mode called Longshot. It focuses on Devin Wade, a young man hoping to play in the NFL. Notably, Devin’s dad, Cutter, is played by Moonlight Oscar winner Mahershala Ali.
Prepare yourself for explosions, family, and stilted dialogue. Need for Speed has been edging closer and closer to the Fast and Furious franchise over the years. But this is the first game to flagrantly try to capture the vibe of the blockbusters series. See for yourself with the trailer.

One of the most anticipated elements of Star Wars: Battlefront II is its single-player storyline, but judging from the latest trailer it may be the multiplayer mode that gets hardcore fans most excited. First shown here at E3 in Los Angeles, the new trailer demonstrates just how expansive it will be, pulling in characters, locations, and vehicles that cover the entire 40-year history of the saga. It even has those Phantom Menace battle droids. (Look, nothing’s perfect.)
The original Star Wars: Battlefront kept things limited to the original trilogy of movies, though a battle from Rogue One did eventually make an appearance in the final installation of the game’s DLC expansion. It provided for a level of familiarity and authenticity, particularly important given that Disney and Lucasfilm were trying to revive a fanbase that was still recovering from the much-maligned prequels. For the second iteration of Battlefront, however, that restriction in eras has been lifted, with everyone from Darth Maul to Rey and Kylo Ren appearing as playable characters.
We’re still early in the hype cycle for the game, but in many ways Battlefront II appears to be the game that Battlefront should have been all along — if it hadn’t been fast-tracked to beat J.J. Abrams’ Star Wars: The Force Awakens to release. In fact, much of what’s been revealed about the game thus far may as well be a fan wish list: along with the multi-player battles spanning the entire saga, the new game will also feature improved vehicle handling and space missions, courtesy of Criterion Games, as well as that expansive single-player campaign, which will put players in the shoes of an elite Imperial officer as she tries to avenge the death of The Emperor and Darth Vader. We’ll find out if the game actually delivers on November 17th.
EA and the creator behind Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons, Josef Fares, will release a new game called A Way Out that can only be played in split-screen. Fares, the game’s writer and director, announced the game on-stage today at EA’s E3 press conference.
A Way Out is a story-driven, co-op prison break game that will feature exploration, driving, action, and more, Fares said on stage. “I wanted to make another game that pushed the boundaries on how to tell stories without compromising on gameplay.” Players will either control Vincent or Leo. Both characters have stories that will play out simultaneously on-screen; even if one character is in a cut-scene, players can still control the other.
Although Fares said the game would allow people to play online with their friends, the idea is for people to play together on their couches.
A Way Out will launch in early 2018. The game is being developed by Hazelight, Fares’ new studio.



Years ago, Casey Hudson, the executive producer on the original Mass Effect trilogy, founded a new team at BioWare Edmonton to begin work on an entirely new franchise. According to a recent report at Kotaku, the project was codenamed Dylan “because Hudson and team wanted to make the Bob Dylan of video games—one that would be referenced for years to come.”
Now we know the game’s official title: Anthem.
The game is rumored to be EA’s response to social-action game franchises like Activision’s Destiny. In an earnings call in May, EA CEO Andrew Wilson said of the game: "We are very pleased with the progress of our new action IP from BioWare. The design is stunning. Gameplay mechanics are excellent. And the action will be exhilarating. The game is built around a live service, and through our creative process, we've decided to add more to the disruptive new social designs for our players. To accommodate that, we are moving the launch date for this project into fiscal year '19."
A full length trailer will be shown tomorrow at Microsoft’s E3 event.
Last year, the Need for Speed series took some time off to discover itself. Apparently it spent most of the break binging the Fast and Furious films on loop. The similarities to the blockbuster franchise were evident in the first teaser, but the extended gameplay demo is somehow less subtle.
I’m not complaining. Despite its early fascination with full-motion video, the Need for Speed series has struggle to stick a decent story. Fast and the Furious built a name for itself on lovable melodrama, though it’s recently wobbled, overemphasizing CGI-soaked action set pieces. Hopefully Payback can land somewhere in the middle.
Need for Speed Payback is scheduled for release on November 10th on PS4, Xbox One, and PC.
Microsoft is cutting its Xbox One S price by $50 tomorrow, just as the company unveils the final name and price for its next Project Scorpio console. The software giant announced the price drop on Twitter today, simply revealing that Xbox One S consoles and bundles will drop by $50 tomorrow. It’s not clear if this is a permanent price drop, as Microsoft has run a number of deals on the Xbox One S recently.
While Microsoft's tweet is confusing and appears to indicate a $50 off the base model that's priced at $249, the software giant has clarified to The Verge that the price cut is only on certain bundles. The Xbox One S Battlefield 1 500GB bundle and the Xbox One S 1TB Forza Horizon 3 bundle will both be discounted by $50. Effectively, this means 500GB bundles are $249, and 1TB bundles are $299.
Microsoft dropped the price of its original Xbox One console last year to $299 ahead of the launch of the Xbox One S at E3, and then dropped it further to $279 just after announcing the Xbox One S. The new price drop for the Xbox One S could hint at a more aggressive pricing structure for Microsoft’s Xbox consoles. Many are expecting Microsoft to unveil its Project Scorpio console pricing tomorrow at the company’s E3 press conference, and Xbox fans are hoping to see $399 or $449 pricing on the new hardware. Microsoft is planning to unveil Project Scorpio at 2PM PT / 5PM ET tomorrow during its E3 press conference.
Update, June 11th 3:30AM ET: Microsoft has clarified its confusing tweet and revealed only certain bundles are getting a price cut.
A new version of Star Wars Battlefront II is the big thing that we can expect from Electronic Arts this year, but there are other projects on the way as well: a new FIFA game for the Switch, a Madden story mode, and a new Need for Speed. Here are the biggest trailers, gameplay videos, and announcements from the EA’s E3 2017 event.

The perfect email app is a bit of a unicorn. Countless companies and startups have tried, and many have failed, to perfect the inbox experience and make peace with email and its soul-crushing inevitability in our modern digital lives. The goal is to make email feel manageable or, at the very least, to give you a pretty piece of mobile or desktop software you enjoy using. We may never achieve a sense of perfection when it comes to email, but many services come close.
On desktop, there’s lots of great options, from the esteemed Airmail on Mac, which costs $9.99, to the Google Inbox-like Spark. For the longest time, I had settled for the free app WMail, which takes the standard web Gmail experience and wrapped it up as a pleasant-looking piece of standalone Mac software.
Similar to how Slack, Spotify, and many other companies develop desktop apps, WMail is built using GitHub’s Electron framework and powered using Chromium, the open source foundation behind Google Chrome. Effectively, these tools allow developers to take web apps and transform them into standalone desktop ones that function in identical ways, but with a few added bits of visual flair and functionality.
In March, the team behind WMail rebranded its app as Wavebox, a new fully-featured email and productivity app that goes well beyond the original idea of an email client. In fact, after using Wavebox for no more than 10 minutes after I first downloaded it earlier this week, I was confident in saying its the most powerful email app for Mac I’ve ever used. It’s available now for free (there are Windows and Linux versions as well), but the company behind it sells a $19.95 annual pro subscription for access to things like unlimited accounts and third-party app integrations.
Wavebox functions very much like its WMail predecessor — it too is built on Chromium and Electron. It lets you add a Gmail account, and then replicates all the very same settings you have on the web versions, including keyboard shortcuts, labels, and so on. It even lets you designate an account as an Inbox one, so you can use Google’s sleek design on, say, your personal email account while keeping the standard web Gmail look for your work one.
Where Wavebox goes above and beyond, however, is its integrations. Where WMail supported only Gmail accounts, Wavebox supports all Google Apps services, productivity service Trello, team comms app Slack, Microsoft Outlook accounts, and Office 365 apps. It even has an option to load any website whatsoever as its own tab within the app. After some minor customization, I set up Wavebox with my work email, calendar, and Google Drive; my personal email, calendar, and Google Photos; my company Trello account; my company Slack channel; and a dedicated tab for The Verge’s homepage. I can even edit Google Doc files right within the app window.
I will concede that Wavebox feels almost tailor-made for my personal work and life setup. We here at The Verge use Trello for tracking projects, communicate over Slack, and use Google Cloud / G Suite for all of our email and web app needs. Though there is support for Windows apps now, I can see why some people’s workflows might not mesh well with what Wavebox has to offer.
And to be fair, this isn’t a minimalist and uncluttered email app — far from it. If you want something a bit more minimal, Airmail is probably your best bet, but I’d also highly recommend the web app Mailplane, especially if you want the same web Gmail experience replicated as a lightweight Mac app.
But if you’re looking for a robust, multi-purpose email app that can handle a dizzying number of different services, there’s nothing better out there than Wavebox.
Adam West, who portrayed Batman in the 1966 television show and movie has died after a short battle with leukemia, according to Variety. He was 88 years old.
William West Anderson was born in Washington in 1928, and was drafted into the US Army, where he worked for the American Forces Network. After being discharged, he settled in Hawaii, where he landed his first television roles, and later moved to Hollywood, California. There, he played in shows such as Sugarfoot, Lawman, Overland Trail, and others. He was particularly known as the spokesperson for Nestle’s Quik, playing a James Bond-style character called Captain Quik, which helped him land the role for which he would be best known.
West’s portrayal of Bruce Wayne’s Batman in the campy, 1966 television show and film helped establish his career as an actor. In his book, The Caped Crusade: Batman and the Rise of Nerd Culture, Glen Weldon notes that it was his voice that set West apart while auditioning for the role:
“As he delivers each line, his voice slithers through different registers and volumes. He inserts pauses that are not merely pregnant but two weeks overdue. Those pauses were of course a deliberate choice — he wanted the viewer to see Batman’s intellectual processes, the way he thought through a puzzle and excitedly seized upon the answer.”
The show lasted for 120 episodes, and alongside Burt Ward (as Robin), Frank Gorshin (Riddler), Burgess Meredith (The Penguin), Cesar Romero (The Joker), and Lee Meriwether and Julie Newmar (both played Catwoman), he portrayed a light, humorous take on the Dark Knight at a time when comic books were written as humorous distractions, rather than the grim, realistic stories that they would later become in the 1980s.
Following his time on Batman, West found himself typecast, but appeared in a number of films and television shows, such as Bonanza, Fantasy Island, and The Last Precinct. He also reprised his role as Batman in several animated shows, such as The New Adventures of Batman, and Super Friends: The Legendary Super Powers Show.
In recent decades, West established a resurgence, aided by appearances as himself in Fox’s animated comedy, Family Guy, and voiced characters in a variety of shows, such as The Simpsons, Futurama, and even Batman: The Animated Series.
Despite its campy nature, Batman became a classic show, full of over the top acting, fantastic bat gadgets, and West’s performances. In a later biography, Back to the Batcave, West noted that he was “angry and disappointed,” at not being able to reprise his role as Batman in Tim Burton’s take on the character, and wasn’t happy with the darker turn the character has taken in recent years.
Yet, while hardcore comic fans scorned the show for its lighter tone, Batman helped define the character for the character for a generation of viewers. Weldon notes that Batman was the “first, dazzling weekday-afternoon introduction to the concept of superheroes in general and Batman in particular,” thanks in part to West’s portrayal.
His Batman co-star, Burt Ward, said in a statement that he is “devastated at the loss of one of my very dearest friends. Adam and I had a special friendship for more than 50 years. We shared some of the most fun times of our lives together; our families have deep love and respect for each other. This is a terribly unexpected loss of my lifelong friend, I will forever miss him.”
In a statement, his family said that West “always saw himself as The Bright Knight and aspired to make a positive impact on his fans' lives. He was and always will be our hero.”
Updated to add statement form Burt Ward.
Cholera is a dangerous and very infectious disease that can be spread through water, feces and, apparently, soft-shelled turtles. In a study published this week in the journal American Society for Microbiology, researchers dipped these turtles in glowing cholera bacteria to figure out if they spread the disease.
Unfortunately, they do — which is bad news in China, where they’re considered a delicacy.
First, the researchers injected the cholera bacteria, Vibrio cholerae, with genes that made it glow. Next, they dipped the soft-shelled turtles in a solution that contained the glowing cholera.
The scientists then checked on the turtles every day for the next four days. By day one, they were already seeing light signals. By day four, the upper shell was glowing. The cholera bacteria definitely had no problem spreading on these animals.
But the scientists also wanted to know if the bacteria got inside the turtles since, after all, few people eat the turtle shell. So they made the turtles take the same glowing cholera bacteria, and euthanized them about three days later. After dissecting the animals, they found that their intestines (though, thankfully, nowhere else) had the glowing cholera bacteria in it.
Thankfully, there haven’t been too many cases of cholera in China — about 200 in the past ten years. But the strain of the disease spread by turtles is seen as an emerging problem, and cholera is still an issue worldwide, with the World Health Organization reporting 190,549 cases in 2014. Turtles aside, this method of using glowing bacteria could be used to study whether other animals, too, spread the disease, and just where in their bodies the cholera colonizes.

Syfy released its trailer for the new season of Dark Matter last month, and now, it has released a trailer for the third season of its other pulpy space opera show, Killjoys.
The show follows RAC (Reclamation Apprehension Coalition) agents Dutch, John, and D'avin as they track down warrants in a region of space known as The Quad. While they spend some of their time hunting their various targets, they also contend with a shadowy organization and its nefarious plans.
This new trailer shows off plenty of bounty hunter action, cyborgs, green goo, and quippy one-liners. There’s also some intriguing hints at this season’s big plot, whihc seem to include a clone of Dutch, and something about saving the world.
Like Dark Matter and The Expanse, Killjoys helped to fill a years-long void when it came to science fiction shows about space on the channel, and it’s a throwback to the types of lighter shows like Stargate SG-1, Farscape, or Andromeda. Killjoys returns to Syfy on June 30th.
Related
EA is scheduled to formally show off a new look at Star Wars: Battlefront II later today, but we now have a close look at what the gameplay will look like, thanks to a leaked gameplay video that surfaced earlier this morning.
The 12-minute video shows off Darth Maul, Rey, and Boba Fett in action in the Naboo palace and its surrounding streets from The Phantom Menace, running through hallways as they destroy droids and clone troopers.
The footage is fast-paced, and really incredible to watch. There’s a real thrill following Darth Maul with his double-bladed lightsaber as he cuts down everyone he comes across. It also looks like you can populate a small group of helper NPCs to follow you around.
The start of the video features the EA logo, and as Polygon notes, it’s not clear exactly where the footage comes from, although the user responsible for the footage says that it’s “Absolutely not stolen.” There’s also a tag in the corner that notes that it’s a pre-alpha build.
Update: the video has been removed, but we’ll undoubtably get a better look later today.

The Mummy hits theaters this weekend, and it’s clear that it’s more than just a movie: it’s Universal Studios’ attempt to jumpstart a Marvel-style cinematic franchise that will bring together its various classic monster properties under the Dark Universe banner. It’s an ambitious goal, but there are already signs that it’s coming out of the gate on shaky feet. On the off chance that this effort flops, Universal has plenty of options to try again.
The cinematic-universe framework sounds really good on paper. Done right, it theoretically creates a massive, interconnected, immersive universe that in turn creates a built-in fanbase and revenue. Marvel and DC have scored financial successes with their respective comic-book universes, Lucasfilm’s Star Wars franchise is chugging along at full speed, and Warner Bros. and Legendary Pictures are embarking on their own Monsterverse project with its Godzilla and King Kong films. But in practice, it’s an increasingly difficult sell as audiences get fatigued and as lackluster individual entries threaten to upset a studio’s plotted out roadmap. The Mummy is actually Universal’s second attempt to get this particular world up and running: 2014’s Dracula Untold was originally intended to launch the Dark Universe, but those particular plans were shelved when the movie flopped.
Related
It’s clear that Universal is dumping considerable resources into this new universe, bringing in hefty budgets and big names like Tom Cruise, Johnny Depp, Javier Bardem, Russell Crowe, and Sofia Boutella. That said, The Mummy is projected to only take in around $35-40 million in its debut weekend, earning less than Wonder Woman will in its second week of release. That could prompt Universal to scale back its ambitious plans.
But that doesn’t mean the studio should quit trying to put together an immersive story playing out over several huge films. Universal has other stories in its back catalog that it could conceivably merge into a coherent shared universe. Films like Serenity or Warcraft have plenty of room for more stories within their established worlds. There are even some existing franchises that could tolerate more development, like Vin Diesel’s Chronicles of Riddick space-horror franchise, which never lived up to its full potential. Universal was also already working on a companion TV show for the franchise.
The most likely candidate for the franchise treatment is Universal and Legendary Entertainment’s joint, upcoming adaptation of Dune, set to be directed by Denis Villeneuve (Arrival, Sicario, Blade Runner 2049). As we noted back in February, Dune is a solid opportunity for a huge space-opera universe, because a ton of ancillary works have been published, spanning centuries around Frank Herbert’s original 1965 novel. Universal has plenty of options to work with. Back in September, Herbert’s son Brian, who continued to expand the series along with Kevin J. Anderson, said there has been considerable interest in expanding the series in films, television shows, and games.
Browsing through a list of Universal’s catalog of films, there are other options that could certainly be fun to see. Three ideas leap out:
War films are a staple of cinematic history, and in the years following World War II, movies set during the action became big business. While most cinematic universes use invented worlds, there’s nothing to stop Universal from using fictional takes on real event to build a shared continuity. Universal has plenty of rebootable WWII films in its catalog, like Red Ball Express or Target Unknown. And there’s no shortage of historical events that could inspire their own films. It would be relatively easy to construct such a shared universe: characters from one story could cross into another, giving the sense of a real, organic space with immense events taking place.
Universal could always go back to the pulp era of author Robert E. Howard with a shared universe that revives sword-and-sandals action. The studio released a well-loved pair of Conan the Barbarian films in the 1980s, as well as a less-beloved one in 2011. Universal could wipe the slate clean and include other heroes, like Kull the Conqueror (last seen in the 1997 Kevin Sorbo film). For kicks, it could snap up the rights to C.L. Moore’s Jirel of Joiry stories, featuring a tough female warrior who fights supernatural beings. Wonder Woman shows that studios have good reasons to pursue more female-driven action films.
Want to stick with space? Put together a rebooted universe that brings together Buck Rogers and Flash Gordon, two iconic science-fiction heroes who helped inspire a ton of other works. Plus, the characters have met up at least once:
And if the studio wanted to add in another likeminded property, Disney would probably be happy to let Universal take John Carter of Mars off its hands.
At the end of the day, the cinematic-universe model is probably going to be around for years to come, whether or not The Mummy succeeds in launching the Dark Universe this weekend. It’s no secret that sequels and reboots are big business, and while the above suggestions are a bit tongue-in-cheek, many of these big studios have huge back catalogs that they can easily mine for years to come — provided audiences continue to tolerate that. When everything about a cinematic universe works, the result is a spectacular, long-form story that does things a single film can’t do. Franchises with their own continuity can create enormously immersive worlds with a huge cast of characters, and give audiences material to enjoy for years. But everything has to work together: the stories have to be entertaining for audiences, the acting has to be good, and the studios have to put the work in beforehand to make sure every entry works together. If any one of those elements fall short, the entire house of cards comes crashing down on itself. But I remain an eternal optimist, and I’ll keep watching, hoping I’ll find another world to delve into.


The first teaser trailer for Black Panther is finally here, and it looks incredible. If there was ever any doubt about how Black Panther, one of Marvel’s more enigmatic and under-appreciated superheroes, would fare on the big screen, this two-minute spot should put those fears to rest. There’s political intrigue, a sci-fi utopia, and plenty of action to look forward to, with a largely black cast put right on center stage.
But more than being just generally entertaining, this trailer is dense. Director Ryan Coogler has clearly done his homework on Black Panther lore, pulling in threads and ideas from some of the character’s best stories over his 50 year history. Let’s break some of them down.
Potential spoilers ahead.
Right off the bat, it should strike you that a movie trailer about the first black superhero in mainstream comics opens on a meeting between two white characters. That’s almost certainly by design. We’ve met both of these characters before and they provide a window into a world that has been a complete mystery to us and the Marvel Cinematic Universe up until now.
Let’s start with Everett K. Ross, played by Martin Freeman. He was first introduced in a minor role in last year’s Captain America: Civil War, but he’ll play a major part in this film as T’Challa’s (Chadwick Boseman) key American ally. His role pulls directly from Christopher Priest’s classic 1998 Black Panther run, where Ross is a hapless government agent assigned to keep an eye on T’Challa during a diplomatic crisis. Just like in the comics, he initially knows little about Wakanda. But is he ever going to learn.
Across from him is the one-armed Ulysses Klaw (Andy Serkis), a traditional Black Panther villain who was first introduced onscreen back in Avengers: Age of Ultron. He’s a gangster and smuggler who’s been trying to steal Vibranium — the metal Black Panther’s suit is made of — from Wakanda, the hyper-advanced African nation where T’Challa is set to rule as king. He’s likely a pivotal figure in the unrest T’Challa will have to face as ruler.
The crux of the film looks like it’ll have to do with T’Challa returning to Wakanda to claim the throne. His father, King T’Chaka, was killed in Civil War, so it’s now up to T’Challa to rule and deal with the drama that comes with his new duties.
It’s from his point of view that we really see Wakanda for the first time. The first place we see is Warrior Falls, where his coronation will take place.
This gives us a peek at how Coogler has envisioned Wakanda for the film: a techno-utopia that features both futuristic airships and traditional culture. It’s beautiful to behold, but also hints at how complicated life in the country is. T’Challa will have to balance his responsibilities as a monarch with his life as a superhero, and that’s going to be a difficult task. King T’Chaka (John Kani) even returns to do voiceover in the second half of the trailer, intoning, “You are a good man with a good heart. And it’s hard for a good man to be king.”
A major challenge for T’Challa will be the factions vying for supremacy in Wakanda, a theme writer Ta-Nehisi Coates touched on in his recent run in the comics. Wakanda has numerous tribes across its numerous regions with varying levels of influence, even though the Black Panther is the leader of the entire country. One powerful figure among those tribes is Man-Ape (Winston Duke), another Panther villain who appears late in the trailer.
However, the core villain looks like it might be N’Jadaka, otherwise known as Erik Killmonger (Michael B. Jordan). Killmonger, who first appeared way back in Don McGregor’s epic 1970s Jungle Action comic run, is a Wakandan exile who holds a powerful grudge against T’Challa’s father. He’s the mental and physical equal of the Black Panther in the comics, and once even managed to best T’Challa in combat at Warrior Falls.
Some of Wakanda’s most powerful figures, both in the comics and in this trailer, are women. The most visible ones are the Dora Milaje, Black Panther’s royal guard and traditionally his wive-in-training. They all kick ass. There’s Ayo, played by Florence Kasumba and first seen in Civil War. (You might also recognize her from Wonder Woman, where she played the Amazon Senator Acantha.) She doesn’t play around. In the comics, she even helped lead a revolution against Black Panther himself.
There’s Okoye, played by The Walking Dead’s Danai Gurira, the leader of the Dora Milaje. And there’s Nakia, played by Lupita Nyong’o. Nakia fell deeply in love with T’Challa in the comics, and her obsession with him eventually made her an enemy. We’ll see where Coogler takes their story in the film.
Even beyond the Dora Milaje, the royal family is sure to be formidable. Angela Bassett plays Queen Mother Ramonda, and even though we see her briefly, she’s sure to play an important supporting role to T’Challa. And then there’s Princess Shuri (Letitia Wright). First introduced in Reginald Hudlin’s Black Panther run in 2005, she’s T’Challa’s kid sister. She eventually goes on to become a Black Panther and Queen of Wakanda, but that’s probably a ways off.
One more thing. That purple blast before we see Black Panther flip off a destroyed car almost certainly comes from his suit, meaning we’ll get the chance to see what he can really do. The vibranium armor T’Challa wears is arguably as advanced as Tony Stark’s Iron Man armor, only with the emphasis put on stealth and agility instead of flight. With it, he can fire powerful energy blasts, scale buildings, and take gunfire without so much as blinking an eye.
There’s so much more that we still don’t know about what’s to come for this movie. (Which is good! Trailers really shouldn’t give everything away!) But there’s plenty to be excited about, particularly for new and long-time Black Panther fans.
Black Panther hits theaters on February 16th.
Wonder Woman begins on the paradisiacal island home of the Amazons, a mythical tribe of warrior women sent to Earth to protect humans from their basest impulses. When World War I spills onto the island’s shores, the film’s titular heroine, Diana (Gal Gadot), leaves its relative safety to help American spy Steve Trevor (Chris Pine) deliver a German laboratory notebook to British intelligence. That notebook, stolen from a German chemist nicknamed Dr. Poison, contains the Germans’ newest superweapon: “It’s a formula for a new kind of gas, mustard gas,” Diana explains, translating the notebook for Britain’s military leaders. “Hydrogen-based instead of sulfur.”
“Gas masks would be useless against hydrogen!” gasps one of those leaders. Even in a film that includes a magical island created by Zeus himself, these details about the gas are so strangely specific that they deserve a little fact-checking. Chemically speaking, does this formula make any sense?
Not really. First off, mustard gas is such a horrible, terrifying weapon, it doesn’t need to be made more potent. But if you were a chemist bent on raining destruction on the Allied forces, you wouldn’t do it by replacing the sulfur atom in mustard gas with a hydrogen atom. You’d know that sulfur is the linchpin holding together this poisonous molecule.
“It’s got a bat-like structure,” explains Raychelle Burks, a chemistry professor at St. Edward’s University in Texas. “Sulfur’s smack in the middle, and then you’ve got two bat wings that come out — and they’re kind of crinkly cut.” Both of those bat wings are made up of two carbon atoms and capped with a chlorine. The four carbon atoms each sprout two little tufts of hydrogen fuzz, for a total of eight hydrogen atoms.
So, mustard gas — also known as sulfur mustard — has plenty of hydrogen already. And an additional hydrogen couldn’t replace sulfur, because hydrogen only likes to bond to one other atom at a time. Unlike sulfur, hydrogen doesn’t have enough spare hands to hold on to both bat wings.
Still, Burks says, the film does get the prominent role of chemistry in WWI right. “Although there is a villain in a human form, the race against time is a chemistry one,” she says. “In that way, they did capture World War I as being a chemist’s war.”
The real-life Dr. Poison was a German chemist named Fritz Haber. He won the Nobel Prize for the breakthrough that made the large-scale production of fertilizer possible. He also spearheaded Germany’s chemical weapons program, and presided over the first successful use of a chemical weapon during World War I: not mustard gas, but chlorine. With the help of the wind, the Germans wafted chlorine gas across the Allies’ trenches on a spring day in 1915 and killed more than 1,100 soldiers, writes Sarah Everts in Chemical & Engineering News.
This experiment in chemical warfare sparked an arms race that earned World War I the moniker “The Chemist’s War,” despite an international ban on chemical weapons. Everts quotes German officer Rudolf Binding, who wrote: “I am not pleased with the idea of poisoning men. Of course, the entire world will rage about it at first and then imitate us.”
Binding was right. A twisted call-and-response ensued — where each new chemical agent was met with a more sophisticated countermeasure. (Among the earliest defenses against chlorine gas were urine-soaked handkerchiefs; the ammonia in urine could render the chlorine relatively harmless.)
But when the Germans first weaponized mustard gas in 1917, it presented a new challenge. Contrary to its name, mustard gas does not actually have any mustard in it. (It’s named for its mustard-like odor.) Nor is it a gas. “Soon known as the ‘king of the battle gases,’ mustard gas is actually an oily liquid that can pass through leather, rubber, and most textiles,” Everts writes.
Artillery shells filled with mustard gas rained tiny droplets onto the battlefield that didn’t need to be inhaled to inflict mass casualties. They soaked into the soldiers’ uniforms and covered their skin, causing a delayed reaction. Hours after exposure, soldiers would start to vomit, and their skin would burn. Huge blisters would form, and, if they inhaled the mustard gas, the lining of their lungs sloughed off. Many went at least temporarily blind. Both recovery and death were slow and agonizing. And the oil persisted on soldiers’ bodies and in the environment, where mortars could kick up residual mustard gas that had settled onto the soil months before.
Wonder Woman doesn’t show the gruesome effects of the “hydrogen-based” mustard gas on people. Instead, we see it shriveling a gas mask (which isn’t how mustard gas works), cracking glass (it can’t), and exploding in an airplane, which goes up like a chemical-tainted Hindenburg. It seemed like the filmmakers wanted to make the gas more flammable, Burks speculates, and people might equate hydrogen with flames. “Like ‘Can we have a chimera?’ And the answer is ‘No. You cannot.’”
Still, the film captures the aftermath and horror of chemical weapons in a scene where the Germans bomb a village with artillery shells containing the fictionally souped-up mustard gas. An orange mist floats low over the ground as Diana walks through to find scattered bodies. The thing that caused that devastation? A tiny molecule you can’t fight with your fists, or with weapons. Once that creeping mist catches you, it’s too late. “Bigger is not scarier,” Burks says. “You don’t need to be the big, scary monster. No, this is scarier than that. And it’s a teeny, teeny molecule.”
Wonder Woman is a superhero movie, so it doesn’t give anything away to say that Diana beats the bad guy in the end. But knowing that chemical weapons continue to be used even today touches that victory with a sense of futility, which the filmmakers seem to have intended. After all, humans will continue to dream up new, horrific ways of hurting one another. But Wonder Woman gives us a chance to escape to an imaginary world — where there’s someone or something out there, trying to stop us.
Update June 10th 9:10AM ET: This article was originally published on June 6, 2017 and has been updated to include video.
For Star Wars fans, Electronic Arts’ E3 press conference is the best place to get a glimpse at the future of the sprawling saga’s video game counterparts. At this year’s show, we can expect EA to show one new Star Wars title at the very least — Battlefront II, the sequel to 2015’s big reboot of the shooter franchise, is slated to come out later this year. There will of course be your standard sports updates, including a new FIFA game for the Switch. EA’s press conference kicks off at 3PM ET / 12PM PT on Saturday, June 10th.
But Star Wars takes center stage. You can be sure EA will have plenty of details and gameplay footage to show off for its next Battlefront. The game, due out on November 17th, will have a big focus on narrative with a new single-player campaign that gives players a perspective from the Empire’s side. There will also be revamped multiplayer and playable characters from across the film installments, from Episode I’s Darth Maul to Episode VII’s Kylo Ren and Rey.
Related
But EA may have a big surprise up its sleeve. The company has been working on a new open-world Star Wars game for quite some time now with top talent on board for the project, including Uncharted and The Last of Us developer Naughty Dog’s Amy Hennig. Whether the game gets a name, a trailer, or even a release date is up in the air. But what better time than at the year’s biggest game showcase to show the world its ambitious new project?
Starting time: San Francisco: 12PM / New York: 3PM / London: 8PM / Moscow: 10PM / Beijing: 3AM (June 11th) / Tokyo: 4AM (June 11th) / Sydney: 5AM (June 11th)
Live streaming: Watch EA’s live stream on Twitch or YouTube.
Live tweeting: Follow @Verge on Twitter for the latest headlines and specs as they emerge.
Instagram / Snapchat: Check out The Verge’s live updates on Instagram here and add us on Snapchat here, or by using our custom Snapcode below, for all the EA stories and E3 news throughout the week.
The first teaser trailer for Marvel’s Black Panther is finally here, having just aired during game four of the NBA Finals. Here, we see Chadwick Boseman reprise his role as T’Challa, the Black Panther and the newly crowned king of Wakanda. We also get a glimpse of Michael B. Jordan as Erik Killmonger, a Wakandan exile who sets out to dethrone the Black Panther, and the Dora Milaje, an all-female special forces squad and  the personal bodyguards of T’Challa. And it wouldn’t be a Marvel teaser without an absurd slow-motion aerial maneuver.
Black Panther is easily one of the more important and highly anticipated films Marvel has on its slate. Directed by Ryan Coogler (Creed), the film features a predominantly black cast that includes the likes of The Walking Dead’s Danai Gurira and Star Wars: The Force Awakens’s Lupita Nyong’o. Wakanda, a fictional African nation that, in the comics, is the most advanced country on the planet, will figure immensely in the story, which promises to be a mix of superheroic action and political intrigue.
Black Panther hits theaters on February 16th, 2018.
Augmented reality company Meta has sued a former employee for stealing trade secrets regarding its technology and market strategy. The startup filed suit in California yesterday against departed head of optics Zhangyi Zhong and AR company DreamWorld USA, as well as 20 unnamed defendants. It alleges that Zhong “shamelessly leveraged” his time at Meta to misappropriate its “technologies, supply chain, manufacturing methods, and relationships, as well as business, investment and market strategies,” using them to build a prototype at DreamWorld. DreamWorld calls the charges “completely baseless.”
Zhong worked for Meta for 16 months before departing in July of 2016. DreamWorld announced its first product, called the DreamGlass, last month. The headset is supposed to cost under $350, compared to the $949 Meta 2 headset, which started shipping last year.
According to Meta, that was possible because Zhong was heavily involved in developing the Meta 2, and had access to Meta’s extensive research about augmented reality, as well as information about its relationships to manufacturers. It alleges that he quit without notice under the false pretense of a medical condition, then secretly founded DreamWorld under a new nickname and began running it through an intermediary, which Meta believes is his wife or girlfriend. Thus, the company could create “a product that took Meta years of trial and error to prototype in a fraction of the time, with a fraction of the effort.”
Meta’s suspicions were raised by an early UploadVR article about DreamGlass, which described “a Meta-esque optics system” and expressed surprise at the headset’s low cost and aggressive release timeline. UploadVR said that the headset was smaller and lighter than the Meta 2, but that its tracking system performed significantly worse. Meta’s headset is designed to be tethered to a PC, while DreamGlass plugged into an Android phone. The lawsuit says that as an optical engineer, Zhong had “no technical experience” with aspects of the headset that appeared to be taken from Meta.
Augmented and mixed reality is a hotly contested space, and the Meta 2 is one of the best-known headsets, alongside Microsoft’s HoloLens. But Meta says DreamWorld “falsely and fraudulently held out to the public that DreamGlass is an entirely new product that has no relationship to any of its competitor’s previous products or prototypes.” It’s accusing the company and Zhong of trade secret misappropriation, breach of contract, and fraudulent business practices.
DreamWorld disputed the allegations. “All the claims alleged by Meta Company are  completely baseless and without merit. DreamWorld USA Inc. and myself  are discussing this matter with our attorney and will take actions to  respond in due course.”
Update June 10th, 8:45AM ET: Added comment from DreamWorld.
Meta v. DreamWorld complaint by Anonymous mljudBdu on Scribd

Federal prosecutors have filed a hate crime charge against 51-year-old Kansas resident Adam Purinton, according to the Department of Justice. Purinton, who is accused of shooting three people in an Olathe bar, reportedly told a local Garmin engineer to “get out of my country” before opening fire. Purinton is currently being held on first-degree murder charges filed by local prosecutors.
Garmin engineer Srinivas Kuchibhotla was killed in the attack, remembered by family and co-workers as a gentle man eager to help friends. “He did not deserve a death like this,” Kuchibhotla’s wife said in the days of the attack. Kuchibhotla’s friend and fellow Garmin employee Alok Madasani was injured, as well as a third man who attempted to intervene. Early reports indicate that Purinton believed Kuchibhotla and Madasani were of Middle-Eastern descent, and yelled racial slurs in advance of the attack.
Today’s indictment accuses Purinton of committing murder “because of Kuchibhotla’s actual and perceived race, color, religion and national origin,” with additional charges for the attempted murder of Madasani and violations of federal firearm statutes. The Justice Department declined to say whether it will pursue the death penalty, although it is authorized by the hate crime statute.
Cortana might be getting a makeover. Two separate reports today from Thurrott and Windows Central mention the possibility of a changed UI for Cortana that’ll make it more conversational. Generally, both stories allude to the idea that Microsoft is trying to make it easier to both discover and regularly interact with its virtual assistant.
Windows Central reports that Microsoft is producing a more conversational UI for Cortana that’ll resemble Google Assistant on Android. Although users can already type a question to Cortana, the new interface might more closely resemble a texting conversation, like Allo. These written responses could be accompanied by a voice reply. Voice input will still exist, as well.
Meanwhile, Thurrott says that in addition to making its interface more conversational, Microsoft is considering relocating the assistant in Windows 10 to the system tray, near the clock. This would make it harder for users to hide the assistant.  We don’t have confirmation or a release date for these features.
Microsoft released a test version of Windows 10 yesterday, which included changes to Cortana. It can set reminders by scanning images (with your permission) for things like events. So if you take a photo of a poster, Cortana can then create a reminder from it. Cortana also has a new lasso feature that lets stylus users circle content to create reminders for things like movies.
All-electric racing series Formula E heads to Berlin’s Tempelhof Airport this Saturday and Sunday for a double-header weekend of racing in Germany. The 20-car showdowns will be the seventh and eighth races of the season, and they take place each day at 4PM local time on a sweeping 10-turn, 2.25-kilometer (1.4-mile) layout.
This is the third time the series has raced in Berlin (you can see highlights from last year’s race here), but it’s the first time the race has taken place at Tempelhof Airport since season one. There’s a pretty good points battle between the top two in the drivers’ championship — Lucas di Grassi trails points leader Sebastien Buemi by 43 points — and Audi is within shouting distance of Renault, which leads in the race for the manufacturers’ trophy.
This is an exciting year for Formula E and a great time to start watching the young series, because big names like Jaguar and BMW have joined an already competitive field. The greater push toward electric vehicles has caused major automakers to either flock to the series or express their interest. (Mercedes has secured an option to enter in season five, and Ferrari even said it’s considering joining.)
Formula E has only run 26 races so far, so you might be wondering just what the hell it is. You’re not alone! The series pulled in hundreds of thousands of viewers per race in both the US and the UK last season, but the awareness is still low — especially outside of the motorsports world.
That said, there’s a lot to like about Formula E that might even appeal to people who have never sat through a full NASCAR, IndyCar, or Formula One race. (For one, Formula E races are short!) So here’s a quick breakdown of how you can watch this weekend’s race, and a guide on the most important things to keep an eye on if you’re new to the series.

Fox owns the broadcast rights in the United States, and many of the races air live on either Fox Sports 1 or Fox Sports 2. That means they’re also available on the Fox Sports Go mobile app (if you have a cable subscription). This weekend’s first race in Berlin will air live Fox Sports 2, with coverage starting at 9:30AM ET.  Sunday’s race coverage starts at the same time, but will be aired live on Fox Sports 1.
Channel 5 owns the UK broadcast rights this season, and the race can be seen live on both Saturday and Sunday afternoons at 2:30PM BST there. In Germany, live coverage be carried on DMAX. Formula E broadcasts in dozens of other countries, too, and those schedules can be found here.
Outside of certain countries (like the US), Formula E streams its races on its website and mobile app for free. If you miss a race, the series usually has a 5–6-minute highlight video posted to YouTube within the first 24 hours. Later in the week the series uploads a 50-minute version — essentially the full race for free. One last good place for info is the Formula E subreddit.

Formula E is a racing series. The cars may be electric, and there are definitely some other quirks (which we’ll get to), but if you’ve seen an F1 or IndyCar race, it’s fairly similar. There are 10 teams with two drivers per team for a total of 20 cars, competing across a 12 race season. There are two championship trophies: one for the driver with the most points at the end of the season, and one for the highest-scoring team.
But there are important differences in Formula E that set it apart.

One of the most unique aspects of Formula E is that almost every race takes place on a temporary street circuit in or near the center of a major city. The series leverages the fact that the cars are relatively quiet compared to their oil-burning counterparts, as well as local governments’ willingness to promote anything related to clean energy, in order to pull this all off. It’s a refreshing break from the purpose-built racing circuits that flood the Formula One race calendar.
The series has already pulled off races in cities like Paris, Berlin, London, Miami, and Long Beach. In season three, Formula E is adding New York City, Montreal, Hong Kong, Marrakesh, and Brussels to the mix. The series is also returning to the legendary Monaco street circuit in May — it raced there in season one, but scheduling conflicts kept it off of the season two schedule.
There are a few reasons for racing in cities. First and foremost, it’s a promotional tool. If you can pull off a race in the middle of a city, you’re bound to attract more attention from outside the motorsport world than you would at a track that’s miles away. Second, it keeps the courses shorter, since the series has to minimize the impact on the host city. Shorter courses mean closer racing, but more braking and turns means the batteries can last a bit longer, too.
Formula E is like other racing series at a very high level, but the actual racing is distinct, because the drivers aren’t always pushing the cars as hard as they possibly can. Formula E drivers have to strike a very tough balance between running hard to race for the win and managing the remaining energy in the battery. The cars have both regular brakes and regenerative brakes, the latter of which can send kinetic energy back into the battery. But recharging the battery this way heats it up, so they also have to be sure not to overheat the system — otherwise, the car will shut down.
You can watch Formula E races without really paying attention to this aspect of the competition, but it’s a significant source of drama. The broadcast does a good job keeping you informed about what drivers are struggling to strike this balance, thanks to a great pair of announcers, the occasional eavesdropping on team radio communications, and the fact that you can always see how much battery each driver has left.

There are some huge automotive names involved with Formula E already. Jaguar, BMW, Renault, Audi, and Citroën all run (or have a hand in running) teams. Lesser-known startups are in the mix, too — Faraday Future and NextEV, two electric car companies with Chinese backing, race in the series. Formula E also has some big-name team sponsors, like Virgin and Panasonic. And there are some legacy motorsport names involved, too: legendary F1 driver Alain Prost runs the Renault team (and his son drives one of the cars), Mario Andretti’s son Michael runs another team, and Jay Penske — son of NASCAR and IndyCar team owner Roger Penske — runs a team as well.
But this is electric racing, so where’s Tesla?
The thinking is that all these other companies are just starting to explore electric vehicles, so they are interested in Formula E because it can help lay some technical and philosophical foundation when it comes to developing an EV. Tesla has been making electric cars for a while now, so it’s likely that the company just doesn’t see the need to get involved. Joining Formula E would also require time, money, and labor — things that a company with thin margins like Tesla probably can’t afford. (Tesla fans looking for a racing fix should keep an eye on the Electric GT World Series, launching in 2017.)

Speaking of, those announcers are superb. Jack Nicholls and Dario Franchitti have become an incredible announcing team over the course of the first two seasons. Nicholls is excitable and high-energy, while Franchitti — a four-time IndyCar champion and three-time Indy 500 winner — is cool, insightful, and funny. The races are worth watching to listen to their commentary alone.

Formula E races are shorter than almost every other major motorsport. NASCAR’s marathon races can last upwards of four hours, F1 and IndyCar hover in the 1–2-hour range. Formula E races last about 50 minutes. This is a good thing — during a long NASCAR race, it’s sometimes easy to lose the thread of what’s going on. The ticking clock of Formula E means the drama is always palpable.
The short race length is also out of the series’s hands right now, since the batteries in the cars are only currently capable of lasting around 25 minutes under the stress of the race. This will change in season five when the series gets a newer, more powerful battery. But until then, it means every driver has to make one pit stop in the middle of the race. They don’t swap batteries though, they swap cars.

I’ll admit, it’s weird watching a driver — especially one who’s spent 25 minutes fighting tooth and nail for the lead of the race — pull into the pits, hop out of a car, hop into another one, and take off again. Formula E chose this route because quickly swapping a battery in the middle of the race could be extremely dangerous for the pit crew (and making the battery easily removable would add weight to the cars, making them slower).
Here’s the thing though: it’s fine! The car swaps take about a minute but they are otherwise no different from a pit stop. And since the drivers only have to make one stop — not two or three or four like in other series — the car swaps add some clear drama to each race. Some drivers try to conserve energy in the first half of the race in order squeeze an extra lap out of the battery, allowing them to push the second car harder. Other drivers push their cars too hard and risk killing the battery before crossing the finish line. The race broadcasts constantly show each drivers’ remaining battery percentage, too, so there’s no guesswork.
Regardless, this will all change in season five, when the series will have a new battery from McLaren that will last the entire race.

One of the most talked-about aspects of Formula E when it was created was “Fanboost,” a fan voting contest held before each race that awards the winning drivers an extra boost of power that they can use in the race. Many people, especially longtime race fans, hated this idea. But over two seasons it’s amounted to almost nothing. The drivers mention it on broadcasts and tweet about it all the time, but that’s because they have to — it’s an obvious tool for engaging with the fans. In the context of the race, the extra bit of power often means nothing.
While the voting aspect is unique, the idea of a power boost isn’t — other racing series  have similar ideas, just in different forms. IndyCar drivers have access to a “push to pass” button that affords a number of boosts throughout a race, and Formula One has a few different systems that let drivers temporarily make their cars go faster.

The drivers of Formula E are a pretty exceptional bunch even if they’re not household names. (To be fair, recognition is a problem for most motorsports these days.) A cynic could look at them as cast-offs from other series like Formula One, but the reality is that F1 is a really hard series to compete in — if you even come near running an F1 car, you’re probably one of the most talented drivers in the world.
Some of the drivers already have outsized personalities that match their talent. Lucas di Grassi is a happy-go-lucky championship contender. Sebastien Buemi is a temperamental trophy-winner. Nelson Piquet Jr. is probably the most recognizable of the bunch to anyone who’s casually followed motorsports in the last decade.
The drivers who’ve been in the series for a while now never shut up about how competitive the field is. But if Formula E wants to grow beyond being a niche sport, it’s either going to have to bring world-renowned drivers into the mix or find a way to make its current stars more recognizable.

Or it could ditch drivers altogether. At some point in the near future, Formula E could have a warm-up act called Roborace. It will supposedly pit some Tron-style self-driving cars against each other on the same city circuits that Formula E runs on. But Roborace’s organizers haven’t picked an actual debut date yet. So far we’ve only seen footage of its test car, known as “DevBot,” and some footage of the production car slowly lapping the Paris track. The people behind it have been publishing behind-the-scenes documentary shorts, which helps shed some more light on the project. It’s a fascinating idea, for sure, but Formula E is already a really hard sell in a crowded media landscape.

Whether you find it interesting or not, Formula E is doing something completely outrageous. The series gathered up hundreds of millions of dollars of investment money and pumped it all into this electric racing series. When you look at where things are headed with electric vehicles, it makes sense that there will be all sorts of electric racing in 5, 10, or 20 years — in fact, it’s already happening.


One of the key features of iOS 11, which Apple announced earlier this week, is augmented reality. But Apple’s ho-hum demo during the event — a tabletop game, similar to what we’ve seen from other AR projects like Google’s Tango — still left a lot of us wondering how iOS developers would use AR once they got their hands on the tool that powers it. Thankfully, they’re already sharing their first results, and many of them are wonderfully weird.
Meetings will never be boring again!
Bar charts are so boring!!! #ARKit @thevrara #ios #iosdev #wwdc pic.twitter.com/jpG4VLGZ8n
For when you want to vandalize without all the messy consequences.
Doodling with the new #ARKit @Apple @madewithunity #madewithunity #ar #socool ##iOS11 smashes it out of the park! pic.twitter.com/4K0N2wcH4q
Want to pretend you’re living in an anime world but don’t have 100 hours to dump into Persona 5? Here you go:
Playing with #ARkit #unity   Real time post effects and video recording with #unitychan pic.twitter.com/eP6JQxmwVC
No fuss, no muss, no need to come to terms with death!
My #wwdc lab was quiet, so I modified the ARKit sample code to place dogs randomly throughout the building pic.twitter.com/2arBY4F1Vj
Nothing says “persistent gaming” like having digital baddies chase you around the real world.
Tracking got a little messed up by the dark but wow! Apples #arkit is nuts. pic.twitter.com/i9SQIAtqK5
BB-8! BB-8! BB — you get the picture.
Because bragging to your friends about it on Instagram Stories clearly isn’t enough.
My bike ride in AR. (Unity + ARKit + Mapbox + Strava) pic.twitter.com/g2uVwVlM3h
Honestly I don’t know what else to tell you.
How else do you expect me to personally reenact the naval battles of the War of 1812? Buy a bunch of real boats?
Naval battle on our office floor! @Apple ARKit is incredible. We can't wait to make some games for it! #ar #apple #arkit #AugmentedReality pic.twitter.com/9TFVu3zJUo

Listen, it’s not a fad unless it shows up everywhere.
Fidget spinner in ARKit pic.twitter.com/zCbvr8HOmX
None of these are particularly revolutionary, though some of them (like this) do show that Apple’s approach to tracking could actually work pretty well. Phone-based AR has been growing in fits and starts for the last few years, and Snapchat (and, of course, Instagram and Facebook) has sort of been bringing it to the masses with filters for your face and the world around you.
But the idea that, by this fall, augmented reality could be spread to the billion devices running iOS means we could be facing a huge turning point for the technology. What looks like a weird idea this week could wind up being the next Pokémon Go this fall.
Apple’s next iPhones, due out some time in the fall, won’t be capable of gigabit cellular connections due to the company’s contentious legal battle with smartphone modem supplier Qualcomm, according to a report today from Bloomberg.
Apple relies on mobile modems from both Qualcomm and Intel, but only Qualcomm’s X16 LTE modem is currently capable of gigabit internet speeds. All four major US carriers are eager to make use of these faster smartphone download speeds as soon as this year in a bid to edge out competitors and gain market share. And hardware makers across the tech industry are releasing new products and offering new components to make this a reality some time in the near future.
Still, Intel needs more time to develop its modem and won’t be capable of shipping it inside new iPhones in the fall. Under normal circumstances, Apple could simply use only Qualcomm components for the next iPhone release, which is believed to come in the form of both a iPhone 7S / 7S Plus and a premium, bezel-less iPhone 8 to mark the device’s 10th anniversary. Samsung, for instance, does rely only on Qualcomm, making its Galaxy S8 capable of gigabit connections. However, because Apple and Qualcomm are currently suing one another in multiple countries over Qualcomm’s alleged illegal monopoly on smartphone modems, the iPhone maker is hesitant to cut a deal that would make it more reliant on its legal opponent, Bloomberg reports.
The end result is that Apple will ship devices with both Qualcomm and Intel modems, but refuse to enable the faster speeds on the Qualcomm devices. This is because Apple doesn’t want to bifurcate its user base into those with faster speeds and those with standard LTE connections, Bloomberg reports, while it also moves to undermine Qualcomm’s dominance in the mobile market.
This could all be a moot point: there’s no telling when AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile, or Sprint will be able to confidently say they’re providing gigabit speeds to customers. Without the actual network coverage, having a faster smartphone modem won’t mean anything, and customers certainly won’t know the difference. As it stands, all four networks are racing to be the first to blanket the US with faster versions of LTE, yet what that rollout ends up looking like is still unclear. So true gigabit may still be two or three years away, at which point Apple’s modem choice won’t matter because every modem will be capable of supporting those speeds.
At the wrap of Apple’s WWDC keynote, we learned that the company was set to announce Business Chat, a new tool that will allow businesses to add a live chat / customer support feature. But unlike what currently exists with Twitter’s DM feature or Facebook’s Messenger for Business, Apple’s platform won’t require businesses to have a social media presence, as customers can simply search for them on Spotlight, Siri, or Maps.
During a WWDC session today, Apple elaborated more on just how it works. Business Chat essentially combines the app component of Messenger and the customer service portion from Twitter, letting you talk to businesses to get shopping / scheduling / general inquiry advice and reach out to file a dispute all from the same chat thread.

Just like Messenger, Apple’s Business Chat will allow customers to shop and buy products straight from chat. Unlike Messenger, the linked payment solution appears to be strictly Apple Pay. Businesses can show items in stock in a list format which pops up from the conversation and prevents them from having to open a new window.
For businesses that offer appointments, Business Chat links up with the user’s own calendar so that they can see if an offered time slot conflicts with their schedule. There are also other little useful features like predictive text, that can load a type ahead message such as address or phone number when the business asks for it.
For things more complex than scheduling and shopping, businesses can direct users to download an iMessage app to complete their request. For example, an airline might have a specific app that helps a passenger select their seat from within their conversation. It’s a similar tactic to how Facebook encourages developers to build their own apps and bots within Messenger.
Business Chat currently works with other customer service platforms like Salesforce and Nuance, and is not restricted to companies without retail locations. The feature is currently being offered in a developer preview and businesses can register here. Once they’re through, they can whitelist employees to build out the tool before offering the service widely.
The concept from both Apple and Facebook borrows from what’s already quite popular in Asia’s e-commerce scene on WeChat and LINE, so I’m curious to see whether they can compete in that region once the features inevitably expand overseas.
Being aboard the International Space Station gives astronaut Jack Fischer an excuse to play with his food — making mundane drinks like coffee much more fun.
“I love coffee on Earth,” he said on NASA TV in a Q&A session with elementary-school students. “But in space, I get to make balls out of it…and then suck the balls. Very cool.” In this clip, he squeezes a bag, and unappetizing brownish balls of liquid squirt from the straw. Fischer guides the hovering spheres to his face and slurps them up.
What does @Astro2fish like to eat in space? pic.twitter.com/RK2FC4IcDA
Basically, liquid coffee coalesces into gooey-looking balls in microgravity because water molecules are happiest when they’re surrounded by other water molecules. That’s their lowest energy state, which is why water molecules group together into droplets here on Earth, and into spheres when gravity isn’t pulling them downward.
The unhappy water molecules on the surface of the droplet or the sphere grip especially hard to one another, forming a sort of skin that keeps the sphere from flying apart. This phenomenon is called surface tension, and you can watch it at play when Astronaut Don Pettit pops this water balloon in space. The water that sprays free eventually undulates into spheres.
“As you can see, it’s pretty fun to play with your food here in space, so I do. And that pretty much makes everything my favorite dish,” Fischer said, floating away from the camera.
This week, NASA announced its newest class of astronauts: 12 extremely qualified individuals who will train for the next two years to fly to space. While many of these new hires have a few shared traits — such as degrees in STEM or flight experience — they all have extremely diverse interests and backgrounds. The new group includes former military personnel, doctors, marine biologists, engineers, and a geologist who worked on the Mars Curiosity rover.
We spoke with two of NASA’s newest astronaut candidates, Robb Kulin and Zena Cardman, who perfectly illustrate that there is no normal path for becoming an astronaut. Kulin has spent most of his career at SpaceX, working on the Falcon 9 rocket and making sure the company’s missions are safe and reliable. Cardman has primarily been focused on studying ecosystems of lakes and oceans and learning how to do science on other worlds.
Though the two do have something fairly unique in common: they’ve both spent time in Antarctica. And they say that living there was a good way to train for leaving the planet.
These interviews have been edited and condensed.
You grew up in Anchorage, Alaska. What was it like living so far up north and did it contribute in any way to wanting to go to space?
Growing up in Alaska is absolutely incredible. I hate to say this being in Texas right now, but there’s honestly no other place in the world I’d rather live more than Alaska. Some of the great parts about it are the adventurous people that you find yourself surrounded by. One of my good friends growing up, she was the youngest person for quite a while to climb Denali, which kind of gives you a flavor for the spirit of people that you’re with. A lot of people spend time flying their own planes around the state, going on adventurous trips. And I think that whole spirit for adventure and exploration is kind of what got me interested in space in the first place.
You’re no stranger to living in cold environments, since you’ve also spent time as an ice driller in Antarctica. How was that experience?
Antarctica is, I’d say, the most off-planet experience you can probably have on the planet. I was in two different places down there, once working deep in the interior in a place called the West Antarctic Ice Sheet. And it’s like being out on the ocean there. It’s flat, white, no topology… and it’s mind blowing.
And the other region that I was in is a place called the Taylor Glacier [which is on a dry valley]. That area is incredible, because as you can imagine from the name, dry valleys means that there’s not a lot of precipitation. So what you get is a lot of old snow and old ice and a lot of bare rock. The rocks down there bring about a whole different picture than what you think about when you’re in mountains elsewhere. It’s phenomenal and gorgeous; it’s just like being on a different planet in some ways.
At what point did you start getting interested in space?
Maybe you could say I’m not very smart, because what gave me the space bug was actually doing a project on the Columbia disaster back in undergrad — looking at the approach of the investigation and some of the findings there. And I guess I’d never really thought much about space until that point. That kind of let me bridge out and think more about space and NASA in general. I wasn’t attracted by the awfulness there, of course, but it was an introduction in general to start looking in that direction.
And that eventually led you to working at SpaceX. When did you first get involved with the company?
My first introduction to SpaceX, I kind of rolled my eyes because I’d seen their first couple of failures and I wasn’t imaginative enough to understand what they were really trying to achieve. When I really got turned onto SpaceX was when I went out for a Shuttle launch and happened to go with a friend of a friend that worked there. And he got us a tour of SLC-40 [one of SpaceX’s launch sites at Cape Canaveral, Florida], and they’d just done a raising of a model Falcon 9; they called it Capricorn 1. And they were pretty amped on that.
It was these guys trying to do some pretty ambitious, but also low-cost, engineering just to get this company going. And the energy they had was incredible, as well as the responsibility and the ability for an engineer to get their hands dirty. I quickly turned around from thinking they were a little silly to being really impressed and deciding I wanted to apply and try to work there as soon as I finished grad school.
What did you work on at SpaceX?
The majority of my time — it’s really been spread out while I’ve been there — I’ve done some design and analysis of various components on the first stage of Falcon 9. Some of those components, even though they started flying back on flight six, a few of them actually still fly.
And then in the last year and a half, I’ve been running what’s called the launch chief engineering group, which is part of flight reliability. And our job has really been to make sure we have safe and reliable flight, and bring all the teams together to have a successful mission. Then in the unfortunate event that we have an anomaly like we had last fall, our team leads that investigation.
How long have you been applying to be an astronaut and what was the process like?
So this is the third time I’ve applied. The first time I knew I was probably borderline not qualified, but I wanted to give it a shot to see how it goes. The second time I did actually get invited in and made it to the final 50. And then of course, this time, I made it through.
But it’s a long process. They really have to do their best to whittle it down step by step. It really starts becoming notable when you get invited in for the first interview, which I think was 120 people for both rounds I made it through. And then if you’re lucky, after about a three-day process of some medical, some interviews, psych tests, etc., you get invited for the second round. And the second round is more of a week-long process, with a lot more poking and prodding. [They’re] really trying to make sure that you’re healthy enough medically to be qualified. One of the big objectives that the team is going for here at NASA is they’re trying to see, “Hey if I got stuck with this guy on Space Station, is that actually something I’d enjoy?”
How was it breaking the news to SpaceX?
It’s been a really amazingly supportive response, which I think is awesome. Even [CEO] Elon [Musk] offered his congratulations, which was great. But I think there’s also been some sadness to see that I’ll be leaving later this summer. To feel valued that way by the team really makes me feel pretty awesome.
Eventually, SpaceX’s Dragon capsule will start taking astronauts to the ISS. I’m assuming you’d like to ride in that one?
You know, I do have to admit I would love to ride on a Falcon 9 and a Dragon. But I’d also be happy to ride in anything that I’d be given the opportunity to fly in. But yeah, it’d be pretty cool, especially if I knew that some of my components were still on Falcon 9, to be on top.
You are obviously a big ocean buff. Where did you get your love of studying marine ecology?
I’m a microbiologist by training. I first got into biology as a high school student. I had a phenomenal teacher in high school, and he encouraged me to pursue research outside the classroom. Then in college, I got connected with several field projects from British Columbia to Antarctica. A lot of these projects were looking at microorganisms, how they interact with their environment, but usually in the context of the ocean or lakes. So eventually I found a home in marine sciences.
It seems like going to Antarctica is a theme in this astronaut class. Robb Kulin also spent time there and said it was almost like being off the planet. What was the experience like for you?
It was a blast. A lot of these projects, what makes them so special, is really the people who go there. And everyone I’ve met in Antarctica shares this similar passion for doing research but also exploring and being on the frontiers and being outside. And it’s a good group of people who like to work in teams. And I think even more so than, you know, this extreme weather or being at the ends of the Earth, there may be more applications in just the ability to work in a team in a remote environment with the space program.
There’s a similar lack of fresh fruits and vegetables, too.
And you’ve already had some experience with NASA analog missions — projects done on Earth that could be applied to space. How did you get involved?
I actually got involved by accident really. I was trying to get to Antarctica, so I had emailed all kinds of different scientists, most of whom didn’t even respond. A lot of them said, “No we don’t have space or the resources.” One woman, named Darlene Lim at NASA Ames, wrote back. She said, “I’m not going to Antarctica, but we have this project in Canada. You should come along.”
And that wound up being a project called Pavilion Lake. It’s in British Columbia, and through that project I got to do really interesting science from a microbiology perspective but then also apply that science to figuring out how to do science on another planet. And I also got to work with people at universities all over the world. Scientists from the Canadian Space Agency and actually both Canadian and US NASA astronauts. That was really my first entry into the NASA family.
So when did you turn your eye from the oceans to space?
I can’t ever say I’ve turned my eyes away from the ocean. That’s still very much a part of my research and who I am. But it was sometime during college that I really realized I had accumulated this set of applicable skills. Not only the science, but getting to work in remote places, learning to fix things, working in these small groups, and how I could use that in the space program.
When did you start applying to become an astronaut?
This application cycle was the first time I actually even qualified. So for the last class, I knew I wanted to do that someday, but I was barely out of college, didn’t yet meet the bare minimum requirements. So when I heard the announcement this time, I was gung ho from the get go.
So the application is really just a resume. You submit a resume to a government website and then there’s a lot of waiting until you get that phone call out of the blue to come to Houston for an interview.
That phone call was so surreal. I almost didn’t pick up, because I didn’t recognize the number. I wasn’t expecting it. And I think there were several moment of stunned silence before I finally busted out smiling and almost laughing and said, “Yes, I would be completely honored to come down to Houston.”
How do you think you’ll incorporate your experience studying the ocean into being an  astronaut?
A lot of oceanography gives you perspective on the Earth as a whole system, almost like one big organism, since the oceans are so interconnected and the ecosystems within the oceans are so interconnected. So it’s given me really this perspective of Earth as a whole.
On top of that it gives you very practical experience working on ships, on research vessels, again with these small teams in a remote place in a confined space. So I think all of that will give me a lot of good experience as we head toward this new exciting adventure.
A lot of the research experience I have is very relevant to our search for life on other planets. But more so than that, I’m looking forward to being part of a research project that’s even bigger than my own personal research. So I’m more excited to contribute to the projects going on on the Space Station and perhaps beyond.
Are there any missions in particular you’d like to be on?
I think I speak for everyone when I say we’re just excited to be involved in any of the projects going on in the space program. First we have a two-year training period, so that’s our focus right now. But after we graduate from astronaut candidates to astronauts, I think honestly it’s going to be the mindset of “Have spacesuit, will travel.” We’re just incredibly excited to go anywhere.
Any parting advice for those who want to be astronauts someday?
There is the requirement for a degree in a STEM program — so science, technology, engineering, math. And that’s a really good concrete way to get started for anyone who wants to be an astronaut. But my main advice is just pursue something that you love. Because if you wake up curious and excited every morning, you’re going to be really happy no matter what the end result is, whatever career you wind up in. Just pursue whatever interests you. You know, I sit here in this blue flight suit, and I have to say it’s possible. So you just have to go for it.

Dan Scavino, the White House social media director, broke the law when he lambasted a Congressman on social media, the Office of Special Counsel said in a letter today.
In April, Scavino tweeted that House Republican Justin Amash “is a big liability,” and he encouraged Trump supporters to defeat Amash in a primary vote.
.@realDonaldTrump is bringing auto plants & jobs back to Michigan. @justinamash is a big liability.#TrumpTrain, defeat him in primary.
Some observers suggested the tweet, although innocuous by some examples from the current administration, may have violated a law called the Hatch Act. The act, from 1939, bars government officials from using their positions for campaigning purposes. According to a complaint filed with the White House Office of Special Counsel by the left-leaning watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, Scavino’s tweet crossed the line.
There were some questions, however, about how the law should be applied in the digital age. The tweet was sent on a Saturday, and from a personal account, muddying whether it was sent in an official White House capacity.
In its response to CREW, the Special Counsel’s Chief of the Hatch Act argued that it was a violation, and the office said it had sent a warning letter to Scavino, who was recently counseled on the issue. The office said it had not found any other violations on Scavino’s Twitter account, but wrote that, if it does, it “will consider such activity to be a willful and knowing violation of the law.”

We recently celebrated that Apple at long last made the decision to change its volume control in iOS 11 to something less intrusive (which, to be fair, would be almost anything but what it currently is). Coincidentally, at the same time, Redditors were having a field day over in r/ProgrammerHumor in a thread that begs the question, “Who can make the best volume slider?” The results have been pouring in since. Some are the volume slider equivalent of chindogu — not useful, but also, not useless — while others are exercises in minutiae frustration. Some are straight up absurd. They’re all delightful.
Which slider is the worst, though? Well, let the games commence.
First, the cringey slider that started it all — a classic-looking interface that simply changes the direction of functionality in a vertical volume bar. It’s a nice baseline to set, but let’s up the ante, shall we?
How about this one that adjusts the volume based upon your Mac’s ambient light sensor?
Or one tied to a random dice roll, because changing the volume should be exciting (and perhaps, an exercise in futility when you realize the maximum volume can only be 96).
But really, volume control should be intuitive, and invite concerned neighbors to check in on you when they hear random screams.
Or maybe it should be uniquely yours, because we are all wonderful, inimitable individuals, and that should be celebrated.
And finally, why slide when you can launch?
When will user experience jokes not be funny? Probably never, as services / products continue to be in a constant race with themselves to make things “better” while often neglecting how we interact with them (ahem, HomePod). So, feel free to cry / laugh away.
Dig through and see more of the best / worst volume sliders over on Reddit.
Every week, a slew of new music videos hits the web. Watching them at your desk is not time theft because you deserve it; think of it as a nice reward for surviving another work week. But what if you don’t have time to watch every video? Maybe you have a deadline, a hungry pet, or other grown-up concerns. In consideration of your schedule, Lizzie and Kaitlyn bring you a series called One Video. Each week we’ll tell you “one video” you need to watch, why, and for how long.
Lizzie: What’s a better way to recapture the love and attention of a fickle internet than by writing about a new Mac DeMarco video? It’s Friday baby, and all you freaked-out freaky skater boys have a message from the king!
In “One Another,” Mac becomes unlikely friends with the Grim Reaper, but it’s not that unlikely because who couldn’t be friends with Mac? According to the video description, “Their friendship has one drawback: they can look but cannot touch.”
Kaitlyn: Somewhere between most and all of my friendships involve very little touching, but I get it. Once in a while you just want the warm embrace of a levitating skeleton.
Friendship is a key theme of this week’s One Video, and a key reason for “One Another” being selected as the one video. Mac DeMarco is well known for breaking the fourth wall of celebrity by befriending his own fans — inviting them to his home in Queens for coffee, rallying them around his mom in an elaborate fan club, sincerely thanking them for paying his bills, and so on. In April, he asked to see all the fan fiction they had written about him, which is sort of a bold move friendship-wise (why hasn’t Lizzie written fan fiction about me?), but still fun. Lizzie wrote Mac a story at the time, in a gesture of friendship, but I don’t know for sure that she submitted it. Mac, my friend, if you are reading, the story is about Bud Light Lime, please enjoy!
Lizzie: Asking “who is Mac DeMarco” is like asking “how do you make a soufflé?” Everybody knows the answer but nobody really knows, you know what I’m saying? More specifically though, Mac DeMarco is a musician on the Captured Tracks record label, a boy who plays the guitar, and a person who has probably been described hundreds (and I actually mean hundreds) of times as a “goofball.”
I just found out that Mac’s real name is Vernor Winfield McBriare Smith IV, but that definitely sounds like a troll that he just convinced Pitchfork to publish.
Kaitlyn: Mac DeMarco is a musician whose latest album is called This Old Dog, a phrase that also appears in the song “One Another.” His music is pretty much the sweet, harmless version of a weird old uncle trying to give you life advice after three Budweisers on Thanksgiving afternoon. For some reason he’s really well known for putting a cigarette between his front teeth one time, but I know him because boys talk about him a lot.
Lizzie:  What’s special about “One Another” is that our boy Mac has proved once again that nothing can take him down, not even death.  I especially like the part near the beginning when he’s just giving the Grim Reaper directions or something, before he gets “old” by letting what I’m assuming is queso dry on his face.
Kaitlyn: This video is special because it reveals that Mac DeMarco either lives in a house with a twin bed covered in teddy bear sheets or explicitly chose to rent a house by that description in order to film a music video. It also reveals that Mac reads People magazine — me too! But even more special than those two things: the song “One Another” is about becoming friends with someone you used to be in romantic love with. Mac kindly reveals that, in his experience, that situation can actually be nice and not a horrible disaster. I’m not really sure how equating an ex-flame with the Grim Reaper is flattering, but I’m sure my friend Mac wouldn’t do anything rude.
There’s also a moment in this video in which Mac is feigning death, but then decides there’s time for “one last rock.” And so, everyone goes outside and rocks it — with various instruments, their bodies, and their voices — one last time. How lovely.
(I’m pretty sure it wasn’t the last time, Mac DeMarco is almost definitely still alive.)
Lizzie: Honestly, stop before the queso-on-the-face part. I kind of think it’s not really cheese, but I can’t stop thinking that it’s cheese, and it’s making me very uncomfortable.
Kaitlyn: I like the part at the end, where everyone’s rocking it one last time and one of the guys in the band accidentally does this really scary thing with his face:
So I suppose, as usual, my answer is “the whole time.” Sorry!
Horror movies are never really about the terror they put on display. Even when monster movies are marketed and sold around a creature, they’re often just using those monsters as stand-ins. Instead, horror is a way to address larger societal concerns and fears, whether it’s the critique of white privilege in Jordan Peele’s Get Out or the anxieties of modern sexuality in It Follows.
Writer-director Trey Edward Shults (Krisha) embraces that schism wholeheartedly with his second film, It Comes At Night. The film’s creepy marketing campaign suggests it’s about a monster hiding behind a mysterious red door, or a survival movie about a plague that infects a family. Elements of both hooks are present, but those are ultimately reductive takes, ways of distilling a complex film simmering with ideas into something more simple and palatable.
Instead, It Comes At Night approaches horror as a framework, using it to construct a psychological drama about family, violence, and the pain of adolescence. It’s a meticulous piece of filmmaking, so honed and refined in execution that it becomes nearly unbearable at times. (Note: that’s a good thing.) But for a film that’s so intent on focusing on ideas rather than cheap scare tactics, it ultimately feels slightly hollow. It’s beautiful and harrowing, and undoubtedly an accomplishment, but it ultimately feels like Shults can’t decide what he wants to say.
It Comes At Night is set in some undetermined near-future. A plague has apparently wiped out vast swaths of humanity, leaving Paul (Joel Edgerton, sporting his best Kurt Russell beard) to defend his family — wife Sarah (Carmen Ejogo) and 17-year-old son Travis (Kelvin Harrison, Jr.) — in their house in the woods. The film opens with Paul killing his father-in-law, who’s suffering from the mysterious illness, before unceremoniously dumping the body into a grave and setting it on fire.
As Paul and Travis watch the body burn, both hiding behind the gas masks they wear for protection, it’s an opening sign that Shults doesn’t plan to pull any narrative punches. His film is violent and matter-of-fact, with little room for luxuries like sympathy and regret.
The problem is, Travis isn’t suited for this environment. He’s an artist who feels closer to his dog than to his father. When a man named Will (Christopher Abbott) breaks into the family’s home, it sets off a chain of events that gives Travis a glimpse at a life beyond what he’s known. Paul and Sarah decide two families are better than one, so Will moves into their home along with his wife, Sarah (The Girlfriend Experience’s Riley Keough) and young son Andrew (Griffin Robert Faulkner). For a time, the makeshift arrangement actually works — but eventually paranoia, fear, and doubt set in, with disastrous results.
The premise of It Comes At Night doesn’t offer anything truly new. The post-apocalyptic survival tale, where people learn how society breaks down without the comforts of structure, is practically a subgenre in its own right at this point. At first, that makes it difficult to fully embrace Shults’ film — what initially seems like a big-screen version of The Walking Dead can only spark so much enthusiasm — but that grim, uncompromising brutality sucks the air out of the theater and makes It Comes At Night stand apart from its brethren. That, and the writer-director’s impeccable style as a filmmaker.
My colleague Tasha Robinson recently had a fascinating conversation with Shults about his film grammar and visual choices, and his insights reveal why, on a technical level, It Comes At Night is a wonder. Cinematographer Drew Daniels turns traditional horror visuals — Kevin waking up from a nightmare and walking down a darkened hallway, for example — into evocative moments that linger in the mind long after the film ends. The movie sometimes feels like a Baroque painting come to life. Daniels’ use of light directs the eye in constantly surprising ways, while creating an inescapable sense of dread. Brian McOmber’s score is equally evocative, a constantly building cacophony of noise and chaos that amplifies the ever-escalating on-screen conflicts.
The irony is that for a film so full of tension, It Comes At Night is never really scary. The film has a number of cheap jump scares and reveals, but they’re all part of Travis’ ongoing nightmares. At first, when it seems the film could go anywhere, the moments are alive and full of dreadful possibility. Once it becomes clear how the film is using those dreams — they’re opportunities to add spooky exclamation points to the all-too-human conflict in the waking world — they lose a significant part of their power. Shults is thoughtful, however, and he does pay off even that loss in efficacy — but it underscores a core problem with It Comes At Night. Just because a film is well-intentioned doesn’t necessarily mean it’s effective.
The film flirts with a number of fascinating ideas and themes. Travis is dominated by his overbearing father, who seems so obsessed with protecting his family that he doesn’t realize he’s emasculating his son at every turn. On the flip side, Travis is a 17-year-old, on the brink of manhood, with nobody his age to relate to, particularly not someone of the opposite sex. That comes to the forefront when he meets Kim. These dynamics present alternative, unusual takes on the typical post-apocalyptic scenario, and there’s rich material to mine there, particularly thanks to Kelvin Harrison, Jr.’s quiet, sensitive performance. But these ultimately end up feeling like situational dynamics rather than true, coherent themes. They’re there for a moment, then abandoned.
Shults has said this is a personal film, inspired by his father’s death. It’s clear he took great care in crafting It Comes At Night, and that he’s using the film to tackle many personal topics as both a writer and a director. Unfortunately, the movie never truly articulates any single idea in any satisfying way — other than a half-defeated, “Welp, everything sucks.” It’s a wonderfully crafted piece of filmmaking that’s nearly sensual in its aesthetic considerations, but as a meaningful piece of storytelling, it never fully delivers.
To be clear, films don’t have to have some big-picture takeaway, and there’s as much power in movies that function as sheer audio-visual experiences as there is in any other kind of production. The problem with It Comes At Night is that Shults is so clearly trying to reach for more. It’s a horror film that refuses to be bound by its own genre conventions. It’s a drama that wants to tackle ideas of masculinity, violence, and the relationships between fathers and sons. It’s a mesmerizing arthouse film with no qualms about embracing jump scares and slasher-movie tropes. But more than anything else, it’s an ambitious movie — a sophomore statement from a filmmaker just beginning to grow into his powers. It’s worth celebrating in that regard alone, even when it doesn’t hit the notes it’s reaching for.
I was really excited to see Apple talk about VR at WWDC this year. It's a sign that Apple can embrace a market it doesn't entirely control, or possibly even fully understand.
Microsoft, Google, and Facebook all now offer some form of AR or VR hardware and software stack, and the ways they're investing in the future of these markets are fairly clear. But I'm still left with a lot of questions about where exactly Apple is headed.
First, let's make it clear what was actually announced:
Apple also gave a definition of what it believes to be VR:
What's lacking here is any sort of clear story for consumers. Apple even specifically stated during its VR deep-dive that the external GPUs are primarily targeted at developers. And Apple's splash page description of its VR-ready iMacs is aimed at content makers, not gamers:
VR makes its debut on iMac, with the ability to edit 360° video in apps like Final Cut Pro and create cutting-edge 3D VR content.
So I see two main possibilities here. Either Apple merely wants to support developers and artists in VR, while being content to allow the experiences they create to be mostly consumed on third-party platforms like Facebook's Oculus, Google's Daydream, and PCs running SteamVR. Or Apple has a bigger plan for consumers beyond Metal 2 and external GPUs.
There’s something a little wrong with the first option: right now it's almost silly to develop VR using Metal 2. It's an Apple-specific API that only works on Macs, iPhones, and iPads. Obviously traditional iOS game development, and other apps that depend on GPU acceleration, can benefit greatly from the improvements in Metal 2. But the return on investment for building a full VR title for macOS using Apple's technology would be minuscule — a sliver of an already small market.
If Apple truly wanted to create the best system for cross-platform VR development, it could embrace Vulkan, which is similar to Metal but also works on Windows and Linux. In fact, Valve uses Vulkan for SteamVR on Linux. It's conceivable that developers who make games in OpenGL or Vulkan for Windows and Linux can port their titles to macOS with a small Metal 2 shim, but something written entirely in Metal 2 is stranded on macOS.
Of course, a majority of developers won't have to focus too much on these details. If you build something in Unity or Unreal Engine 4, both of which have promised to support Metal 2, most of the work of porting the title to various other platforms is solved for you. And it makes sense for these engines to target Metal 2, even without macOS VR, because iOS games are such a huge market. So maybe I'm reading too much into this.
But something tells me this is only Apple's first, developer-focused step into VR, and that the consumer part of the story is still to come. Maybe Apple will release a slide-in VR headset for the upcoming iPhone. Or perhaps something bigger, like standalone AR hardware, is actually in the works.
But even if this just means Apple is going to focus on gamers with affordable, VR-friendly computers, I won't be mad.
Taylor Swift’s entire catalogue is back on Spotify. Her first four albums haven’t been available since November 2014, and her October 2014 release 1989 has never been on the service before today. It’s the end of what has inarguably been the biggest, messiest controversy of the paid streaming era, and my colleague Micah Singleton has plenty of thoughts on how it happened and what it means for the music industry.
But I’m also interested in what this decision means for Taylor Swift. Not as a pop star or Katy Perry’s nemesis (happy album release day, Katy!) or a lightning rod for controversy — but as Taylor Swift the economist, the moralist, and the vague symbol for artists’ rights.
To put Swift into some context I think is often ignored, she’s not just one of the biggest pop stars in the world: She’s also its most successful, prolific, and recognizable contemporary songwriter. That’s a designation she’s proven she cares about. She can make hundreds of millions touring as an A-list performer, but it still makes sense that a prodigiously talented young woman who was written off for years on the basis of her diaristic songwriting and frivolous interest in glitter would transition into adult pop stardom in part on a platform of business savvy and semi-empowering rhetoric about the value of her own labor.
She’s uniquely positioned to speak authoritatively on this issue as a public-facing brand and a behind-the-scenes creative. Though, that doesn’t guarantee that her stance on streaming is logically sound.
In a now-infamous essay for The Wall Street Journal, Swift wrote:
"Music is art, and art is important and rare. Important, rare things are valuable. Valuable things should be paid for. It's my opinion that music should not be free, and my prediction is that individual artists and their labels will someday decide what an album's price point is."
The thrust of this argument takes a few things for granted that weren’t true, even in 2014: For one, that Swift could use her personal situation as a standard by which to  gauge the industry’s dealings with artists. More importantly, that music takes its value from being “rare,” and for another, that the concept of a concrete “price point” for an album was still one that made any sense.
There is no such thing as “rare” when you’re talking about content that’s distributed primarily via the internet. Album sales, digital and physical, were already plummeting by the time Swift offered up these thoughts, and many of her young fans were more likely to listen to her music on YouTube, paying for the experience with auto-play ads, than they were to have gone to a Target and laid down their $14.99. But the biggest flaw in Taylor Swift’s argument? She’s Taylor Swift.
Related
She, and other top artists, stand to make millions of dollars from streaming no matter what happens, and Spotify and Apple Music even push them further ahead of the crowd by way of recommendation algorithms, featured playlists, and paid exclusives. Nothing she says will ever apply evenly to the people who might really suffer.
Swift’s 1989 was conspicuously missing from Spotify when it was released in October 2014, and Swift yanked the rest of her catalogue a month later.
Days later, she explained the decision saying:
“[A]ll I can say is that music is changing so quickly, and the landscape of the music industry itself is changing so quickly, that everything new, like Spotify, all feels to me a bit like a grand experiment. And I'm not willing to contribute my life's work to an experiment that I don't feel fairly compensates the writers, producers, artists, and creators of this music. And I just don't agree with perpetuating the perception that music has no value and should be free...  I thought, ‘I will try this; I'll see how it feels.’ It didn't feel right to me.”
Spotify had as much fun as it could with the controversy at first, writing her a pun-filled public note and promoting a playlist called “What to Play While Taylor’s Away,” so it’s mildly interesting that they’ve refrained from gloating about today’s victory. When reached for comment, a Spotify spokesperson would say only “We can confirm that Taylor Swift’s entire back catalogue is now available on Spotify for her millions of fans to enjoy,” a fact which anyone with internet access can also confirm. The spokesperson also linked to a “This Is: Taylor Swift” playlist, which looks just like the “This Is” playlist for every major artist, and has the simple tagline “She’s back. Stream all of her greatest hits now.”
Whether or not Swift’s stance on Spotify made sense, its obviously just glad to have her back, and no longer interested in going toe-to-toe. Or maybe Spotify doesn’t feel the need to point out the obvious: Streaming isn’t an experiment now, it’s just the way things are. Swift doesn’t exactly look like a hypocrite here, but she does look like someone who bet on the wrong horse.
For reasons that went unexplained by anyone from Swift’s camp, she decided one spring day to put all of her music except 1989 on Tidal. At the time, the service was available only as a “hi-fi” premium subscription sold for $19.99 per month. Since Swift’s main issue with Spotify was its free, ad-supported tier, it makes sense that she would be more willing to play ball with an all-paid service. But then, why hold back 1989? And, if she had a fundamental moral quibble with the very idea of ad-supported streams, why keep anything on YouTube? Vevo’s royalty payments aren’t anything impressive compared to Spotify or Tidal.
A blip in the timeline, this move still muddied Swift’s point.
When Apple announced three-month free trials to users willing to give Apple Music a go, and quietly told labels that artists wouldn’t be seeing any royalties for those streams, Swift took to Tumblr to express her displeasure:
“I find it to be shocking, disappointing, and completely unlike this historically progressive and generous company.
This is not about me. Thankfully I am on my fifth album and can support myself, my band, crew, and entire management team by playing live shows. This is about the new artist or band that has just released their first single and will not be paid for its success. This is about the young songwriter who just got his or her first cut and thought that the royalties from that would get them out of debt. This is about the producer who works tirelessly to innovate and create...
...I realize that Apple is working towards a goal of paid streaming. I think that is beautiful progress. We know how astronomically successful Apple has been and we know that this incredible company has the money to pay artists, writers and producers for the 3 month trial period… even if it is free for the fans trying it out.
Three months is a long time to go unpaid, and it is unfair to ask anyone to work for nothing. I say this with love, reverence, and admiration for everything else Apple has done. I hope that soon I can join them in the progression towards a streaming model that seems fair to those who create this music. I think this could be the platform that gets it right.”
This argument, as opposed to Swift’s first statement in WSJ, acknowledges that Swift is not ever going to be personally affected by the outcome of the streaming wars. It also asks for something specific and points out a policy that’s quite obviously unfair, bringing the plights of producers and songwriters to the forefront. It’s a really strong recalibration for Swift’s message in regards to streaming, in particular because it’s not an argument against the very basic idea. Though, it also spends a weird amount of time on complimenting the richest tech company in the world.
Apple acquiesced to Swift’s demand, and agreed to pay royalties to everyone during its free trial. So the following week, she announced via Twitter that 1989 would stream for the first time on Apple Music (alongside her back catalogue).
This is simply the first time it's felt right in my gut to stream my album. Thank you, Apple, for your change of heart.
She also took care to note that 1989 was not an Apple Music exclusive in any contractual sense, she just didn’t want to put the album on any other services yet. Again, that’s a bit of a contradiction, considering Tidal was also subscription-only.
In an interview with Vanity Fair, swift laid out the crucial differences between her two big streaming feuds:
“Apple treated me like I was a voice of a creative community that they actually cared about. And I found it really ironic that the multi-billion-dollar company reacted to criticism with humility, and the start-up with no cash flow reacted to criticism like a corporate machine.”
This didn’t really go over very well for Swift. She sort of unfairly neglected to acknowledge that her issue with Apple had been one the super-rich company could easily solve with money, and that her fight with Spotify had been a meta-level spat over its very existence and the business model. Pandora co-founder Tom Conrad called it “mostly theater,” pointing out on Twitter that Spotify does pay out artist royalties for its free tier — exactly what Swift demanded Apple do, then thanked them for doing, complimenting their “change of heart.” What exactly is the problem with Spotify’s free tier, if they sustain it with the same system by which Apple would support its free trial? You can argue, of course, that royalties are too low in both cases, but Swift didn’t.
She also faced criticism from former One Direction member Zayn Malik, leading to a really funny and hard to follow Twitter spat between Malik and Swift’s then-boyfriend, DJ and producer Calvin Harris. Malik and Swift later recorded a duet for the Fifty Shades Darker soundtrack, so I guess everyone’s over it.
Swift’s 1989 World Tour Documentary became Apple Music’s first big video exclusive, announced to coincide with her 26th birthday: “Thank you so much for all the birthday wishes. I have a little surprise for you.” Promoting it, she always remembered to tack on an @AppleMusic.
Celebrate with us December 20 on @AppleMusic #1989WorldTourLIVE pic.twitter.com/oksxT1q6pM
Swift’s first ad for Apple Music showed her running on (and falling off of) a treadmill while listening to an Apple Music-curated playlist called “#GYMFLOW.” Specifically, she was listening to “Jumpman,” a song off of Drake and Future’s big Apple Music exclusive, What a Time To Be Alive. The ad debuted on Apple’s 40th birthday, on Swift’s personal Twitter account, with the caption “Based on true events.”
Related
Whatever nitpicks Swift might have had with the basic concept of streaming in 2014, they were seemingly all behind her at this point. Not only was she onboard with one streaming service, she was actively promoting it.
Swift’s music is also available on Pandora and Google Play Music, and 1989 has finally been added to Tidal. She hasn’t said a single thing about it, beyond her label announcing that it’s a celebration of 1989 selling 10 million copies worldwide. Maybe because there’s nothing to say other than “I had to change my mind eventually?”
Swift won her feud with Apple Music because she wanted something very specific, and she took issue with a business practice that was blatantly unfair. Her feud with Spotify was never a feud with Spotify at all — it was a feud with the entire industry, the changing landscape, and the way fans expect to access music now. She was always going to surrender, and dipping her toe in with Apple Music probably helped Spotify in the long run. As a symbol for the rights of artists in the digital age, she’s a watery one at best.
Related
Did she win anything from Spotify? Maybe. Universal Music Group, the parent company for Swift’s Big Machine Records, signed a new deal in April that lets artists opt to keep new albums off of Spotify’s free tier for their first two weeks. Spotify has also been cozying up to songwriters, announcing just this week that it would start a “Secret Genius” program — an awards show, special workshops with A-list talent, and curated playlists in honor of the almighty lyricist. She might see that as a welcome sign of respect. And Swift is famous for lacing her album booklets with riddles and clues about the songs’ meaning. Maybe, with the death of the album insert, Spotify’s new Genius integration is appealing to her? Maybe it really is a Katy Perry thing.
Anyway, she’s back.
Let’s answer the main question right out of the gate: the reason Taylor Swift brought her albums back onto Spotify and to platforms she’s overlooked in the past few years, like Amazon Music and Pandora Premium, isn’t because Katy Perry released Witness (although it may have something to do with the timing) or because Swift’s last album, 1989, sold 10 million copies (this is the official reasoning for the release) — it’s because of the new licensing deal between her distributor Universal Music Group and Spotify, and the realities of releasing music in 2017.
The new deal between UMG and Spotify allows for artists to choose to window new albums (or make them unavailable to free users) for up to two weeks after their initial release — a huge win for the label, and a sticking point for Swift. Streams from paid users pay far better than streams from ad-supported users on Spotify, and Swift is nothing if not fully in control of her content and her finances.
❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️ pic.twitter.com/kcpY03qHLp
In 2014, the last time Taylor Swift released an album, people still bought albums. She pulled her catalog from Spotify the week 1989 was released, stating the service doesn’t pay artists fairly and doesn’t give them enough control over their content. “I'm not willing to contribute my life's work to an experiment that I don't feel fairly compensates the writers, producers, artists, and creators of this music," Swift told Yahoo at the time.
The experiment isn’t an experiment anymore.
In 2016, streaming became the dominant revenue driver for the music industry — when 1989 was released, it made up 27 percent of the revenue. Spotify grew from 10 million paying customers in 2014 to 50 million this year. Swift can’t ignore that.
Even Adele, a notorious hater of streaming, admitted that she would eventually catch up with the times shortly after she released 25 at the end of 2015, despite holding the album off streaming services for seven months. “I know that streaming music is the future, but it’s not the only way to consume music,” Adele told Time back in 2015. With an older audience used to buying albums, Adele might be able to stand on this for another release. Swift doesn’t have that luxury.
Make no mistake, Swift is one of the shrewdest businesspeople in the music industry, and she will get every dollar she’s earned. But in 2017, keeping your catalog off streaming services won’t help you maximize your earning potential or appease your fans.
You could argue Swift won both of her corporate fights in the music industry. She got Apple Music to pay artists during its trial period, and Spotify agreed to a two week windowing period for new albums. (The latter had far less to do with Swift and more to do with Spotify trying to stay afloat as a company charging toward an IPO, but a win is a win.)
This is simply the first time it's felt right in my gut to stream my album. Thank you, Apple, for your change of heart.
While Spotify may have lost the initial battle, it didn’t lose the war, and frankly neither did Swift. This is a calculated armistice that allows both sides to retreat to their base and claim victory. 1989 is finally on the world’s largest streaming service, and Swift will get paid more and have more control over her content going forward.
The real winner here is the Swift fans and Spotify users, who can finally listen to the most popular artist in the US without hassle.
Don’t try to wrong a raven, not even once. It’s not going to forget and it’s probably going to shun you for a long time.
When it comes to animal personalities, there are dogs, which are loyal and usually love you no matter what. And on the other side are ravens, who are only too happy to remember what you look like and ostracize you,  according to a study published this week in the journal Animal Behavior. The researchers trained nine ravens by hand for the purpose of testing — or, really, taunting — them to see if these birds could tell fair from unfair. Spoiler alert: They can. They will bear a grudge, and this is what makes these bitter corvids birds after my own heart.
These nine ravens were raised in captivity, growing to become familiar with the researchers. Then came the test.
The ravens were put in a cage along with two trainers on each one. The first trainer gave the raven a piece of bread. The raven then carried the bread to the other trainer on the other side, and exchanged it for cheese.
The second time, the raven was soundly rejected. Instead of getting the cheese, it had to watch as the trainer just ate the cheese in front of it.
Two days later, the researcher rounded up up seven of the birds and presented them with three trainers: the fair one who gave them the bread, the unfair one who ate food in front of them, and a neutral one. Six out of seven birds chose the fair one. One chose the neutral one. Nobody wanted to play with the mean one.
One month later, they tested all nine birds. This time, seven chose the fair trainer and only one chose the unfair one. Study co-author Jorg Massen, a post-doc at the University of Vienna, told National Geographic that the ravens might be even less forgiving than this study suggests. He thinks they might remember for as long as two years, which is how long they’re capable of remembering who was in a cage with them.
In some ways, this finding isn’t terribly surprising since ravens are known for being very smart (they even hold funerals) and have a complex social structure. To succeed in any type of group interaction, you need to remember who’s good to you and who you need to plot revenge on. So be careful next time you’re walking in the park and want to throw a rock at a raven. We’ve long been warned what kind of damage birds can do.

Nintendo’s latest venture is something of a hybrid game. Called Arms, it stars a cast of near-future fighters with Slinkies for arms, who duel in stadium-like arenas packed with adoring crowds. It’s a fighting game, yes, but it’s not exactly a traditional one like Street Fighter or Tekken. At the same time, it’s also not as immediately intuitive in the way that boxing in Wii Sports was. It straddles the line between depth and accessibility, and that can make it unclear who the target audience of Arms actually is.
So who exactly is Arms for? Here are a few potential candidates.
Think of Arms as the fighting game equivalent of Mario Kart: a multiplayer game that just about anyone can pick up and have fun with right away. (Arms was actually developed by the same team behind the excellent Mario Kart 8.)
It’s simple enough to pick up and play, but complex enough to keep the interest of more experienced players. Arms features both one-on-one and two-on-two competitive play, and both are a blast. Even better: since it’s on Switch, it’s very easy to get a game of Arms going wherever you may be — provided you have an extra set of Joy-Con controllers laying around.
Related
The game’s default style of control is motion controls, which play out like a more advanced version of Wii Sports boxing. (Though you can also play with a standard controller if you want more precision.) To throw some punches, you swing your fists through the air with a Joy-Con controller in each hand.
Arms has a definite learning curve for those pursuing mastery. It takes some practice to get used to swinging your arms about while also jumping, blocking, and dodging. For me, it took a few matches before I felt comfortable leaping sideways, throwing an arm in one direction, and the other arm in another.
While it takes practice to get good at Arms, you don’t need to be especially great to hop in and have fun. This is especially true of the two-on-two mode, where a more experienced player can partner up with a newbie to even things out.
For all of its accessibility, part of what makes Arms so enjoyable is its freedom of movement. Take punches, for example. The distinct spring-like arms on each character don’t just let you punch an opponent who is far away, they also let you add a twist to your punch, almost as if you were tossing a curve ball. This lets you punch around obstacles in certain stages, or — if you’re particularly skilled — predict where your opponent is going and aim in that direction.
Things get even more complex when you factor in the differences between characters. Each of the 10 combatants has a distinct way of moving and special abilities that dramatically alters the way they fight. After playing for a week, I’m still not sure who I like best. Sometimes I prefer the speed and jumping ability of Ribbon Girl, other times Mechanica’s option to glide through the air on a rocket pack is what helps me win matches.
The possibilities get even deeper with the inclusion of character add-ons confusingly called arms. These are essentially different types of gloves you can equip your characters with, and they provide a range of different abilities. Some can freeze or blind your opponent, others fire laser beams. There are dozens to unlock, and figuring out the best combination of character and arms requires a good deal of practice and experimentation.
That said, for all of its depth, Arms is very different from most fighting games. It still requires fast reflexes and quick thinking, but there’s no memorization of complex combos or advanced control schemes to worry about.
A few months after launch, the Switch has a fairly solid line-up of games, from smaller gems like Tumbleseed and Puyo Puyo Tetris, to ports of big hits like Minecraft and Mario Kart 8. But even still, many Switch owners are looking for something new to play — particularly those who have managed to make it all the way through Breath of the Wild.
Arms is a great game, but depending on the kind of experience you’re looking for, it might not satisfy that post-Zelda itch. That’s especially true if you’re planning to play alone. As a single-player game, Arms is lacking. The main grand prix mode is a fine place to learn new characters and unlock content, but it’s not a satisfying story mode. There’s not enough meat or variety to make it interesting over multiple playthroughs. For me, it’s served primarily as a training ground.
Of course, this is true of most competitive games. Mario Kart gets pretty boring when you play by yourself. But Arms feels especially sparse, especially when you look at the upcoming Splatoon 2, which retains a multiplayer focus but adds in what looks to be a fairly robust single-player campaign as well. Arms is great with a friend — but there’s not much to it when you’re on your own.
Arms launches on Nintendo Switch on June 16th.
Apple CEO Tim Cook, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella plan to visit the White House this month, Bloomberg reports, for the first meeting of a Jared Kushner-led council that aims to “transform and modernize” government digital services. Alphabet Executive Chairman Eric Schmidt will also attend the meeting of the American Technology Council on June 19th, according to Bloomberg, along with executives from IBM and Oracle.
President Donald Trump formed the American Technology Council by executive order on May 1st, tapping Kushner — his son-in-law and senior advisor — to lead it. Facebook has received an invitation to this month’s event, Bloomberg reports, though the company has not yet responded to it.
The meeting will come weeks after Cook, Nadella, and Google CEO Sundar Pichai  publicly criticized the Trump administration for its decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement. Silicon Valley executives have also been critical of Trump’s proposed travel ban on passengers from majority-Muslim countries; Apple, Google, Facebook, Twitter, and Microsoft were among the 97 companies that filed an amicus brief in opposition to the proposed travel ban in February.
Eleven companies have been invited to attend this month’s tech summit, according to Bloomberg. The summit will include a meeting of all the executives, followed by discussions around topics such as cloud computing and technology sales to the government.
Trump met with Silicon Valley leaders in December, prior to his inauguration. Among the topics reportedly discussed at the meeting were immigration, trade with China, and efforts to reduce government waste through data analysis.
Taylor Swift is making her albums available on all music streaming services tonight, including Spotify, Deezer, and Amazon Music, three years after she pulled her back catalog from Spotify. The pop star’s management team confirmed the news via Twitter, saying that the move to make Swift’s catalog available came in celebration of 1989 selling more than 10 million copies worldwide.
The albums — including 2012’s Red and breakout hit Fearless — were yanked from Spotify in 2014, ahead of the release of her latest album, 1989. Swift defended her decision, complaining that streaming services like Spotify didn’t compensate artists fairly. "All I can say is that music is changing so quickly, and the landscape of the music industry itself is changing so quickly, that everything new, like Spotify, all feels to me a bit like a grand experiment," she said in 2014. “I'm not willing to contribute my life's work to an experiment that I don't feel fairly compensates the writers, producers, artists, and creators of this music."
❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️ pic.twitter.com/kcpY03qHLp
Spotify’s free tier seemed to be Swift’s particular bugbear with the service, as she did decide to put her records on both Jay-Z’s Tidal and Apple Music.
Swift announced that she would be putting 1989 on Apple Music in 2015, a year after its release, marking a particularly big milestone for a service that was still a fledgling competitor to Spotify at the time. The star had initially voiced concerns about Apple’s free three-month trial, which under original terms, would withhold royalties for artists whose songs were played by non-paying customers. The company quickly made the decision to flip that deal and agreed to pay royalties to artists played by any user — perhaps due to one of pop’s biggest megastars threatening to withhold her million-selling album unless changes were made.
Now, however, Swift appears to have reconciled any problems she may have had with Spotify and other streaming services. It could be that the landscape has changed in the industry in the three years since she removed her albums, or it could simply be that she’s gearing up for a new album release and wants to ensure all potential fans can hear her old music. Either way, her entire back catalog will be available from midnight ET on your streaming service of choice.
Google-owner Alphabet Inc. has agreed to sell robotics firm Boston Dynamics to SoftBank, the Japanese telecommunications and technology company. Terms of the deal remain undisclosed, but news of Alphabet’s intentions to sell Boston Dynamics first surfaced back in March 2016. That was roughly two years after Android co-founder Andy Rubin left Google, where he spearheaded a series of prominent robotics acquisitions, most prominently Boston Dynamics. That division, known internally as Replicant, was disbanded after Rubin’s departure, leaving the future of Boston Dynamics and the other robot companies in flux.
“We at Boston Dynamics are excited to be part of SoftBank’s bold vision and its position creating the next technology revolution, and we share SoftBank’s belief that advances in technology should be for the benefit of humanity,” said Marc Raibert, CEO and founder of Boston Dynamics, in a prepared statement. “We look forward to working with SoftBank in our mission to push the boundaries of what advanced robots can do and to create useful applications in a smarter and more connected world.”
That Alphabet has finally sold its most high-profile robotics subsidiary may signal an end to the company’s passing flirtation with the world of humanoid and industrial robots. Boston Dynamics, a 25-year-old company originally spun out of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has gained a worldwide reputation as a leader in robotics engineering for its development of bipedal and quadruped robots like Atlas and BigDog.
The company has received funding from the US government’s Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, and it pioneered techniques for helping robots maneuver real-world environments and adapt to complex changes in terrain. Its most recent development, shown off in a leaked video in February, is a jumping unit named Handle that combines both wheels and legs into a “nightmare-inducing robot” capable of advanced aerial maneuvers and obstacle avoidance.
Despite the steady march of Boston Dynamics’ robotics innovations, it appears Alphabet leadership didn’t quite know what it would ultimately do with the company. As part of an overall restructuring and cost-saving strategy set forth by Alphabet CFO Ruth Porat last year, the company has taken significant measures to slim down its experimental efforts and rein in its “moonshot” projects. Even prior to Porat’s hiring, it was clear Alphabet was at a bit of a loss with regard to its robotics ambitions. Astro Teller, the head of the company’s X lab, was the one who disbanded Replicant in 2014, before Google was restructured as Alphabet, according to Bloomberg.
As part of the SoftBank deal, Alphabet is also selling Schaft, a humanoid robotics company Google acquired as part of its Replicant buying spree back in 2013 and 2014. Schaft was spun out of the JSK Robotics Laboratory within the University of Tokyo, making it a sensible purchase for SoftBank. Despite its huge presence in the Japanese telecom market, thanks to its 2006 acquisition of Vodafone Japan, SoftBank is also a leader in robotics — the company makes the popular humanoid Pepper robot in partnership with Aldebaran Robotics.
“Today, there are many issues we still cannot solve by ourselves with human capabilities. Smart robotics are going to be a key driver of the next stage of the Information Revolution, and Marc and his team at Boston Dynamics are the clear technology leaders in advanced dynamic robots,” said SoftBank Group CEO Masayoshi Son, in a statement. “I am thrilled to welcome them to the SoftBank family and look forward to supporting them as they continue to advance the field of robotics and explore applications that can help make life easier, safer, and more fulfilling.”
Microsoft is releasing a new test version of Windows 10, build number 16215, today and there are a lot of changes on the way. If you’re a Windows Insider on the Fast Ring then it’s available immediately, for everyone else all of the new features will arrive in the Windows 10 Fall Creators Update later this year.
The first big change is a new look for the notification center (Action Center), which has been redesigned with separate sections for apps. It certainly looks a lot better, and groups notifications together in a more coherent way from devices, apps, and elsewhere.
You’ll now be able to pin your favorite websites to the taskbar in this latest Windows 10 update. Of course, once they’re pinned they’ll open in Microsoft’s Edge browser, but the pinned sites feature is returning after feedback from Windows 10 users. Microsoft is also improving the animations for new tabs in Edge, making things a little faster. Cortana will also see some changes, with the ability for the digital assistant to prompt for reminders by scanning images (with your permission) for things like events. If you’ve taken a photo of a poster, Cortana can then create that reminder. Cortana also has a new lasso feature that lets stylus users circle content to create reminders for things like movies.
Perhaps the biggest changes Microsoft is focusing on are with Windows 10 stylus support. The handwriting panel has been overhauled with more gestures, better editing, emoji, and automatic handwriting detection. As you write with a pen words are automatically converted to text, and words will shift along so you can simply keep writing. You can also select text to edit it, and make corrections to converted text using ink gestures. You can strikethrough, scratch, join, or split with the gestures, and the handwriting panel also includes quick access to emoji and symbols. The handwriting panel will float by default now next to where you’re writing, and you can even use the stylus to scroll in apps and websites now. Microsoft has even added a “find my pen” option, that will show where you were with your device when you last used the pen.
Elsewhere, Microsoft is finally making it easy to insert emoji into emails or social media messages. A new winkey + period / semicolon keyboard shortcut will trigger a new emoji panel where you can pick the most appropriate emoji for your messages. Microsoft is also adding a new touch keyboard for Windows 10 desktop and tablet users, with prediction, emoji suggestions, one-handed input, and shape writing with your fingers or a stylus. Dictation has also been added to the keyboard, so you can dictate text or use it for basic editing commands. Dictation has been in Windows for years, but it’s encouraging to see Microsoft move this to an area that makes more sense.
Alongside these bigger changes there are some smaller tweaks to Windows 10 overall. A new copy link feature in the new share page makes it easy to share links, and there’s improved support for HDR monitors and the ability to easily switch between public and private for network connections. There’s a lot of other minor changes and fixes listed in Microsoft's huge blog post, and all will be welcomed by regular Windows 10 users. This is one of the bigger feature additions to Windows 10 preview builds for a few months now as Microsoft heads towards a September release for the Windows 10 Fall Creators Update.
It really feels like 2017 is the year of the drone. We got news that Drone Racing League is returning to ESPN in June, the DJI Spark wowed us as “the best starter drone on the market right now,” and there’s even a Kickstarter for a water-friendly drone from SwellPro that floats. Now, Voliro’s concept hexacopter is here — an acrobatic wonder drone that can stably fly in an array of arial configurations, thanks to individually tiltable axes.
An interdisciplinary team of 11 college students from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH Zürich) and Zurich University of the Arts (ZHdK), Voliro set forth with the goal of designing a hexacopter that could not only take on any aerial direction, but perform an air-to-wall transition with ease. It’s now been working on the project for nine months, documenting the progress along the way, and just debuted the final prototype via a demo video.
The video splits between the darkly elegant prototype, splashed with generous doses of dramatic fog, and more casual shots of a test room with a slightly different version that demonstrates the drone’s capabilities. The hexacopter dances in the air, exercises some intentional wobbles, slowly does a static flip, and pirouettes on a tilt. It’s incredibly impressive, even if it’s a distance from how Voliro envisions the final product.
While Voliro’s main selling point is those sweet, tiltable axes, it says the hexacopter will also eventually have a center sphere (so it can roll omnidirectionally on the ground). The axes should also give it the ability to fly with aerial stability in any configuration with 12 degrees of freedom.
It remains to be seen if Voliro’s acrobatic drone will ever go to market, but in the meantime, it’s a ton of fun to watch.
One species of wart-encrusted octopus looks very much like another — which is why zoologists are taking a good, hard look at those warts: turns out, they could help scientists tell these exceptionally bumpy octopods apart.
Remotely operated vehicles (also known as ROVs) are giving scientists an unprecedented peek at deep sea creatures. That includes these warty octopuses — collectively grouped under the genus Graneledone. But because the species look so similar, it’s hard for scientists to say whether the one glimpsed through a submersible’s viewfinder is a known species, a new one, or a known one in an unusual spot.
That information makes a difference when it comes to figuring out which species need protection, and where — something that could become more urgent as climate change and human activity threatens creatures we don’t even have names for. And it’s why having a way to tell octopus species apart is a big deal. “That’s important because we’re doing a lot of visual work in the deep sea now,” says Mike Vecchione, a zoologist with Smithsonian who was not involved in the study. “Having characters that you can use from visual observations is really helpful.”
The work started when Janet Voight, a zoologist at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, saw warty octopuses in nature. “And suddenly it kind of occurred to me — I’m asking the question is this one species or two species, when in fact, I don’t know,” she says. “I’ve never seen another species.” So Voight and a student accumulated more than 70 (dead) museum specimens of one species that lives in the Northeast Pacific, called Graneledone pacifica, and another that lives in the North Atlantic — Graneledone verrucosa.
They discovered that G. pacifica is especially warty, with cartilaginous bumps stretching down its arms and covering its mantle — the muscular covering for the octopus’s organs. The warts stop in a line, right at the back edge. On G. verrucosa, the warts don’t extend quite as far down its arms, and they taper off towards the back of its mantle. So the density of bumps on the back of the mantle and the length they extend down the arms are good benchmarks for deciding whether a given octopus is G. pacifica or G. verrucosa, according to the paper Voight published in Marine Biology Research.
Granted, the two species are separated by a continent, making today’s study a proof-of-concept. The next step is to see if other species show clear wart differences too. If so, the wart-based ID method could be broadly applied to the entire genus. That would help us find out who else we’re sharing the Earth with. “The deep sea is the last frontier of our planet,” Voight told The Verge. “And we don’t even know what’s out there.”
A small comment from Head of Xbox Phil Spencer was the final bit of news necessary to convince me Microsoft’s Project Scorpio will be named Xbox 10 S, and it will serve as a Windows 10 gaming PC built for the living room. I know, that’s a big claim — and I don’t encourage anyone to gamble on it. But ahead of Microsoft’s E3 event on Sunday, I’d like to collect the evidence that Microsoft is eager to put a computer beneath your television.
First and foremost, Microsoft has been talking about the convergence of living room entertainment and Windows software since before the original Xbox existed. Its video game consoles have always been something of a Trojan horse. And with the company’s reveal for the Xbox One, that thinly concealed strategy went public. The notorious presentation largely overlooked games and favored lengthy explanations of HDMI-pass through, professional sports partnerships, and grand media plans.
Since then, the Xbox team has been on something of an apology tour, refocusing on games to win back the hearts of fans who felt betrayed. At the same time, Microsoft has slowly laid the foundation for Xbox One’s pseudo follow-up, Project Scorpio, building hype for the hardware over the past year by promising the most powerful console on the market. All of the messaging has been zeroed in on how Scorpio will play games better.
But I wonder if it will also do something else — because playing the same games at 4K isn’t enough. At least, it’s not enough for a company like Microsoft that stands to gain from the potential of a powerful PC being right next to your couch. As a powerful living room PC, the Xbox could become more than just a game machine or streaming device. For college students, it’s a steal: the perfect and necessary computer (that just so happens to play games). For adults, it might be the center of a SmartHome. For kids,  it runs Minecraft and Word.
As a fully functional PC, Project Scorpio could be an Xbox, an Apple TV, and an Amazon Echo all rolled into one. Would Microsoft really pass up that opportunity?
When I profiled Microsoft in December of 2015, Spencer was already pushing the concept of a fluid ecosystem, in which games followed the player from one platform to the next: Xbox One, Windows 10 PC, a smartphone. Since then, Microsoft has launched Cross Play, allowing Xbox One owners to play new games on both console and Windows 10 PCs.
Spencer sits on the board of Windows 10, and he’s aggressively pushed to further blur the lines between Xbox One and Windows 10 PC. A fall 2015 system update integrated Windows 10 into the Xbox One. And an Xbox app on Windows 10, released around the same time, has brought game streaming, messaging, and chat features to the PC.
For those two roads, Project Scorpio seems like the natural merging point.
So why Xbox 10 S and why does a long runtime matter? Let’s start with the latter. Explaining a living room PC will take time. If the device does more than play games, Microsoft will need to explain how — and why we should care. And unlike its last reveal, it will need to also nail its video game announcements. We’re really looking at two press events mashed into one.
And the name, well, I think Microsoft may have given it away. This is from my colleague Tom Warren’s piece on hidden details in Microsoft’s E3 teasers:
In another teaser posted yesterday, there’s a "X10S101-317” message displayed on a stage with a crowd of people. Microsoft typically uses this type of date format for its Windows and Xbox software builds, so if you separate out the X10S to refer to the console, then the remaining 101317 could mean October 13th.
The naming convention would fit in with Windows 10 S, the newly announced OS. Windows 10 S only runs programs downloaded from the Windows Store, which would allow Microsoft considerable control of what can and can’t be put onto the console. And the naming convention would explain why Microsoft went with Xbox One S for its lead up console last fall.
Maybe I’m wrong. Maybe Microsoft has given up the dream of the living room PC. But that seems increasingly unlikely, the more you consider the evidence Microsoft itself has provided. Whatever the case, we’ll know for certain this Sunday during a press conference that will run extra long.
The Beijing Cyberspace Administration has shut down at least 60 celebrity gossip social media accounts, Reuters reports. The administration reportedly asked internet companies like Tencent and Baidu to crack down on accounts spreading gossip or rumors online.
According to Reuters, a post on the Beijing Cyberspace Administration’s social media account says websites must “adopt effective measures to keep in check the problems of the embellishment of private sex scandals of celebrities, the hyping of ostentatious celebrity spending and entertainment, and catering to the poor taste of the public.”
This is just the most recent move by the Chinese government and President Xi Jinping to suppress online discussion. Early last month, the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC) announced a new set of regulations concerning what news publications can publish and share. Under these regulations, news companies need to acquire a government license and have editors approved by the government, according to the BBC.
In a meeting with the country’s biggest internet companies, the BCA reportedly said that a new cybersecurity law required websites “to not harm the reputation or privacy of individuals.” While the Chinese government has maintained that these regulations are security measures, critics say it’s not clear how they’ll be implemented and that they’re a move to limit free speech, according to The New York Times.
Reuters reports that many of the 60 accounts closed were duplicates.
Watchers on the Wall has been keeping an eye on the HBO schedule, and today, the site pulled out the episode lengths for the new season of Game of Thrones.
Most of them look like they’ll be ordinary lengths. Episodes one, two, and five are all 59 minutes — pretty long considering an “hour” of broadcast TV without the commercials is 43 minutes, but not unusual for prestige TV. Other episodes vary a bit: episode three is 63 minutes long, episode four is 50 minutes.
But the final two episodes qualify as short feature films. Episode six is 71 minutes long, and episode seven, the finale, is 81 minutes. That last installment will be the longest episode of Game of Thrones to date, though it’s still shorter than the 90-minute episodes of other HBO shows, like True Detective or Westworld. (Which were, in my opinion, boring. You can’t say that about Game of Thrones, even when it’s kind of bad.)
Last year’s Game of Thrones season finale was 68 minutes long, and in that time, a ridiculous number of things happened, including but not limited to:
Imagine what could happen if that episode had just been 13 minutes longer! I’m guessing there will be a lot of story events in the finale, many of them dramatic, exhilarating, and probably violent. And then we’ll have to stay up extra-late discussing them. You should consider requesting the following Monday off from work right now, if you know you don’t operate well on a funky sleep schedule.
Only 37 more days until this show is back! And then only seven weeks until the season is over again! And then maybe no more Game of Thrones until 2019! Maybe you could make the final episode last a full two years by watching only seven seconds per day.
The Al Jazeera news network is fending off a massive cyberattack, according to a statement today. The Qatari-owned news organization claims that its website and broader media network are currently “undergoing systematic and continual hacking attempts.”
The nature of today’s attack is still unclear, although one researcher observed the issues extending as far as US-based DNS servers, which could indicate a broader network failure. The network did not respond to a request for comment.
“These attempts are gaining intensity and taking various forms,” the company said in a statement. “However, the platforms have not been compromised.” The attackers also targeted Al Jazeera’s accounts on platforms like Twitter and Facebook, although there’s no indication any accounts were compromised.
The attack comes just weeks after a previous compromise at the Qatar News Agency, a separate news agency also owned by the Qatari government. That compromise involved a massive theft of data, ultimately triggering a diplomatic incident after fabricated remarks attributed to the Emir of Qatar were published alongside leaked data from the compromise.
In the wake of the incident, a number of neighboring countries cut off diplomatic ties to Qatar, and Al Jazeera itself has already been prohibited from broadcasting in Saudi Arabia and Jordan, among other countries. Reporters without Borders condemned the move, calling it “a political decision that amounts to censoring this TV broadcaster.”
Apple didn’t talk much about tvOS 11 during its Worldwide Developers Conference this week, yet it still released the developer beta. We’re slowly getting an idea of what to expect. 9to5Mac reports that AirPods will automatically pair with a user’s Apple TV. Previously, the earbuds only automatically paired with iPads, Macs, and Apple Watches that were associated with the same iCloud account.
So maybe with tvOS 11 you’ll be able to watch TV without needing a whole speaker setup or even dealing with manually pairing. How many people want to watch TV with their AirPods? I’m not sure, but Roku did add a headphone jack to its remote. Maybe that’s a sign.
tvOS also includes a new Home Screen Sync feature, which will keep your apps consistent across Apple TVs, and automated switching between dark and light mode. We also know it’ll support Amazon Prime Video.
The BlackBerry KeyOne officially made its way to the US a few days ago, but some customers who have bought TCL’s first BlackBerry-branded phone are encountering an unusual issue — the screen on the KeyOne doesn’t seem to actually be adhered to the rest of the phone.
The issue was first publicized by YouTube channel JerryRigEverything, which noted that the display on the KeyOne appears to just be snapped into place and lacks any more of adhesive or glue holding it in.
Additionally, there are already multiple reports on the CrackBerry fan forum of phones whose screens have popped off the front of the KeyOne entirely after small drops. It’s possible that the issue is simply a quality control problem affecting a small number of phones that just didn’t get glue for whatever reason. But short of warranty-voiding investigation into other devices to see how widespread the issue is, there’s no real way to know whether or not your KeyOnes has the same problem (at least, until your screen pops out, in which case it’s probably too late.) The Verge has reached out to TCL for clarification around this issue.
At a Chicago screening of the new post-apocalyptic horror film It Comes At Night, writer-director Trey Edward Shults revealed the film’s inspirations. Like his debut movie, 2015’s Krisha, It Comes At Night is a harrowing drama based on a crisis in Shults’ family: “It comes from my dad’s death,” Shults says. “I had a messy relationship with my dad… He battled addiction for a long time, I cut off our relationship, and after 10 years, I saw him on his deathbed, with pancreatic cancer, and he was so full of regret for the life he led. And I was just trying to help him find some peace. It was one of the most traumatic experiences of my life. I’ve never been that close to death.”
It Comes At Night isn’t openly about cancer, the way Krisha was openly about addiction. The film takes place largely around an isolated cabin in the woods, where Paul (Joel Edgerton), his wife Sarah (Carmen Ejogo), and their 17-year-old son Travis (Kelvin Harrison Jr.) have holed up after a virulent, grotesque plague started spreading in the cities and society began to disintegrate. Paul takes an aggressive hand toward keeping his family safe, and Travis meekly watches and obeys, but their lives change when a stranger breaks into their house and changes their family dynamic.  For Shults, the story was not just about fathers and sons, but about processing grief and exploring regret “and how fear tears us apart.”
Like Krisha, It Comes At Night is about the struggle between accepting and rejecting family members who behave badly. It’s also about tribalism, isolation, and paranoia. But in spite of the marketing, it isn’t about a monster that comes at night, unless you count humanity’s worst impulses as a monster. I sat down with Shults in Chicago to talk about the film’s racial dynamics — Paul is white, and his wife and son are black — and about apocalyptic movies, personal horror, and why Shults hopes mainstream viewers never pick up on the way editing, camera work, and aspect ratios can help tell a compelling story.
This interview has been edited for clarity and brevity.
Is there a recipe for the perfect film apocalypse?
Oh God! Honestly, I wouldn’t know. I don’t watch a lot of apocalyptic movies. What I’m more drawn to is the personal nature of this stuff, whether that’s Melancholia or Take Shelter, or even Children Of Men or something. I have no idea what the perfect concoction for that is at all. I feel totally out of my depth on that. But I love if that kind of material can stem from a personal place. That excites me.
In Children Of Men especially, you have no idea why people have stopped having children. They just have to deal with it.
You’re thrown into it, and you’re catching up.
And that feeds into some things you said last night, about how what interests you in horror isn’t the monster, or answering the audience’s questions. It’s about what stressful situations do to people.
People fascinate me, and dynamics between people fascinate me. Looking at one of my favorite horror movies, The Thing, I know everyone goes crazy about the monster effects and all of that. It’s dope, but to me, it’s even more exciting what that situation does to the people, what the fear and paranoia instills. I remember the first time I saw The Thing, I was really young. I didn’t quite know who Kurt Russell was. He has this big beard, and I didn’t get that he was sort of the hero. It was like everyone was evil and I couldn’t trust anyone. It was terrifying to me. That blood-test scene! So those dynamics just fascinate me, whether it’s a disease with people trapped in a house, or a relative coming home for Thanksgiving, or whatever. I love people! I’m also terrified of people! So they’re fascinating.
This movie is extremely cynical about people, and about human nature. Is that just an isolated case around this story, or is it your larger commentary on humanity?
It’s probably both. Even if the movie does feel cynical, I also hope you feel love in the movie, that you feel love amongst characters. With this particular film and where it stems from, with my dad — I’ve been reading books on genocide, and thinking about people and our time on this world. Thinking about families, and how they’re like their own tribes, and how people put their tribe first. I think there’s a lot in how we live, where family always comes first. And if we think that way in any circumstance, we’re just going to end up destroying ourselves. It’s inevitable. These cycles of violence keep happening, and they’re like warning signs that we ignore. That’s why I was fascinated with books on genocide, and how this stuff keeps happening. It’s my biggest fear. It terrifies me, so I’m fascinated by it.
The family dynamics in this film are intriguing, especially given the history you’re channeling here. The way Travis quietly watches and judges his father feels like a parallel for some of your feelings about your dad’s life choices. But you show up in the father, too, having to make decisions for someone who can’t judge his own situation. How direct are these metaphors for you?
That’s a great question, and honestly, it’s hard for me to judge. It’s really messy, because it all blurs together. First writing it, I wasn’t consciously like, “Oh, this is how my dad and I are, so I’m doing it this way!” It all just comes out. And then in hindsight, when you have to talk about it, now I certainly see how much it fits. Aspects of my biological dad are in Paul, but also my stepdad. They’re merged in Travis and their relationship, and even in the subtext of the fact that they don’t look like each other. Maybe they’re not even biological father and son. And then the men who ambush them in the woods — Paul takes a second to look at them, and I think they look like father and son. Little things like that are hints into the whole relationship here. I think there’s tension between them. There’s love, but also a tension, and different views on the world. All I know is, when I was writing, it was purely the characters. But then in hindsight, I started seeing where it all came from.
You’ve described yourself as a film-grammar nerd. Was there a point in the filmmaking where the relationships became more defined to you as you had to address how to handle framing and angles, and pick lenses and lighting?
That’s more of an intuitive thing. With this and Krisha, when I was writing, I would experience the scene like I hope an audience would. For me, it’s just always about getting down to “What’s the point of view of this scene?” The single most boring thing to me is just getting standard coverage, like, “Let’s get our wide, let’s get our singles.” Even if we just have a couple of scenes with two people talking at a table, we’re trying to do unconventional coverage, trying to hint at the subtext of the power dynamics going on. To me, that’s just fascinating. And it’s all together. It’s shot so you experience the scene how a character does, or the power dynamics between them.
Why were the different aspect ratios in the film so important to your story?
So the bulk of the movie is in 2.40:1, with spherical lenses. That’s our reality approach. What always interested me in the movie is, along the way, there are these nightmares. Film-grammar-wise, how do you play with that? You could go so many different routes. You could make a full nightmare, just announce it. But once again, taking it to the character, I want to experience it like Travis does. So our film grammar and how we shoot it doesn’t change, and the lighting doesn’t change. But we subtly use different lenses. We use anamorphic lenses for all the nightmares, and we subtly change aspect ratio, either through a fade, or slowly compressing. The bars at the top and bottom close in, and it goes from 2.40:1 to 2.75:1. And the climax is when reality has become a nightmare. The music side, the aspect ratio, and the lenses converge. Over a prolonged sequence, the bars are slowly closing in, getting more and more claustrophobic, until they’re stuck in 3.0:1 for the rest of the movie. We also go handheld as reality truly becomes nightmare, once a certain line has been crossed. We’re handheld, tight in, so it’s nauseous.
More and more filmmakers are playing with aspect ratio to manipulate the audience. Do you think mainstream audiences are coming to a place where they consciously notice these things?
No! And I hope they don’t catch on. We’re film nerds, so we’re going to notice it. It’s interesting, and fun to play with. But it excites me for the people who don’t notice it. When my mom or someone sees a movie, and they have no idea what it’s doing, but they feel it. In Krisha, every change we do is after a dark fade and a good beat. I remember at an Iceland festival, I talked to a lady who recommended her mom to go see the movie. And her mom called her afterward, crying. She was like “Mom, mom, what’s wrong?” “I just loved this movie, it broke my heart!” Which itself was amazing. But she was like, “It felt like I just went on the movie with this character, and the screen molded to her at times!” So she didn’t know why, but she felt it, and that’s the coolest thing to me.
And the same with this. To me, it’s not cool to be like, “Yeah, we’re geniuses! We’re doing aspect-ratio stuff!” That’s not interesting. But if you can subconsciously affect an audience like that, that’s the real power, and the real excitement behind it. A movie like Mommy, where [actor Antoine-Olivier Pilon] literally pushes the aspect-ratio bars away, I still think that’s great. It’s a beautiful moment. But you’ve got to be careful with that stuff. I assume audiences are picking up on it more, but the fun aspect is people who don’t know film grammar at all, and what that can do to them.
You said Night of the Living Dead is one of your major influences here. Did it have an influence on the racial casting?
Not in a — like, I don’t think this movie is about racism. It’s certainly not. But Night of the Living Dead is different. I can’t help but think about that movie because of the casting here, but I didn’t make those choices because of that.
George Romero also says he didn’t cast Duane Jones as his star specifically because he wanted a racial dynamic to the film. He says he was just the best actor available. But then you can’t escape how that casting changes the story dynamic and the optics.
Exactly! Well it’s so interesting that that’s how it came out, because it’s such a product of when it was made. And that ending haunts me like crazy. With this, too, there were a variety of factors. But you can’t help but look at it once it’s onscreen. You need to think about those optics, making a movie today. I think it’s irresponsible not to think about that. So of course that’s on my mind. But the big thing was, I just want great actors and great human beings, no matter the color of their skin. Past that, the movie is not about racism. I think it’s interesting to do post-racial casting, and have it be about the people. No matter their skin color, fear and paranoia and everything else still breaks these people apart, and that’s fascinating. This is a sloppy, messy answer. I’m sure race can’t help but be a part of it, but it was never like, “Oh, I’m going to have this mixed-race couple, and it’s going to be sooooo provocative!” I don’t think it changes the story, personally. I just think it’s interesting to not comment on that, and just let these people be these people.
You’ve also said you were inspired by John Carpenter and older horror in general, but at the same time, this feels of a piece with recent horror movies like The Witch, The Babadook, and Get Out, all these extremely personal visions that focus on the characters’ emotional experiences as much as on outside threats. What’s your feeling on how you fit into the current state of horror cinema?
I wrote this before I saw those movies, but I can’t help but see the parallel — I love those movies. What I’ve noticed is a trend, especially with The Babadook and The Witch — I know Robert [Eggers], who made The Witch. I love that guy. We met on a festival tour. These movies are personal horror stories, and that’s fascinating to me. Babadook too, in particular — just the emotional journey on that movie, and using that monster to create this grief — I really love that movie. I’m sure It Comes At Night falls in line with these films. You want to make your own thing and be unique, but I guess I’m a part of that trend now. It’s weird. But I love those movies.
Being aware of all these movies, how do you feel about where horror cinema is right now?
I think it’s really fascinating to consider: what are the monsters in each of these movies? Where is our world at right now? Horror films have always been a product of the environment they’re made in, and the times they’re made in. To me, that’s really fascinating and exciting. But I wrote this script years ago, before our world was where it is right now. Not that our world was perfect before, but the ideas then were more about how people keep doing this shit, and if we don’t start trying to change, I believe we’re going to destroy each other. I think this is a cautionary tale in ways like that.
There are so many mysteries in this film, particularly about what’s going on in the world, and about some key unresolved details. You leave them out of the film on purpose, but do you have answers for all those questions in your mind?
Totally. When the script spewed out of me, I experienced everything as the characters experienced it. I tried to keep that intact through everything else. When you make a movie, questions like this pop up a million times, and you confront them a lot. But it was always important to me to never be a step ahead of the characters. We’re never going to find something out unless they find it out. I know what happened before the first frame, and how they got to that moment, all the way to what happens later, and certain things that aren’t explained. But the exciting thing to me is treating storytelling through the characters’ point of view, and really living it. And that’s going to frustrate a lot of people.
Are you concerned about the film being marketed as a monster movie? Are you concerned about the frustration people might feel in the theater, when their expectations aren’t met?
Of course! Yeah, there are going to be people who want a monster to come at night. They’re not going to like this movie, and that’s fine. You never want to make something just to piss people off. That’s the last intention ever, especially when you put your heart and soul into something, and you believe it, and you care about it deeply. What I’ve come to, how I feel right now is, I think the movie is going to get out there, way more than something like Krisha did, more than the film could have in a different circumstance. And the important thing is that it reaches the people it’s meant to reach. Whether some love it or hate it, oh well. I just wanted it to reach people it’s meant to reach, so they can connect with it. I’ve seen movies I didn’t love the first time, and then they come back to me, and that’s interesting too. So I don’t know. It’s weird being on my side, seeing the marketing come together. It’s a bizarre thing to be on this side of the chair. It’s interesting. We’ll see.
The phrase “Uber is in hot water again” has become a bit meaningless over the last few months — and for good reason. The embattled ride-hailing company has been limping from crisis to crisis since the beginning of the year. But this latest controversy — in which a top Uber executive obtained the medical records of a rape victim in India — could be the most legally dangerous one yet.
According to a report in Recode yesterday, Eric Alexander, the president of Uber’s business in the Asia Pacific, obtained the medical records of a woman who in 2014 had been raped by an Uber driver in India. Alexander later shared those records with Uber CEO Travis Kalanick and Senior Vice President Emil Michael, and others. After Recode contacted Uber about Alexander’s actions, he was fired.
Uber is in the midst of a high-profile investigation into its workplace, after numerous employees alleged instances of sexual harassment and bias. Yesterday, 20 Uber employees were terminated as a result of that investigation, and dozens of other instances are still under review. But the revelation about the handling of a rape victim’s medical records has thrown new fuel on the fire. The Financial Times today advocated for the firing of Kalanick, arguing, “It’s time to face facts. Uber does not have an image problem, it has a chief executive problem.”
Sources told Recode and other outlets that Alexander was motivated by a belief that Ola, a leading ride-sharing company in India, was behind the incident to sabotage Uber. (Ola released a statement calling Uber “low on morality.”) But legal sources in India tell The Verge that unless Uber received the consent of the victim before obtaining her records, the company’s executives were likely in violation of India’s privacy laws. But that because those laws are sill evolving, it may take time for any civil or criminal prosecution to unfold. A lawyer for the victim told Bloomberg that an apology from Kalanick and Alexander was expected, but made no mention of pursuing legal consequences.
“In India, Uber did face a lot of flack in the manner this [case] was handled,” a legal source in India who asked to remain anonymous told The Verge. The source was referring to the outrage that confronted Uber as a result of this crime. Police in New Delhi considered charging Uber with a crime over the company’s lax standards around background checks for drivers. Ultimately, the driver who committed the rape was sentenced to life in prison. And Uber was banned from operating in New Delhi, a prohibition that was eventually lifted until June 2015.
“They may continue to face the heat should the lady press the charges real hard,” the source continued. “It may take time though to get to the bottom of this, as the privacy law is still being tested in India.”
In the US, this would be a violation of the victim’s privacy. But the law relating to the privacy in India are “slowly evolving through various court judgements,” the source said. Privacy rules as laid out by the Medical Council of India, which regulates the healthcare sector in that country, state that any person seeking anyone else’s medical records “must obtain written consent from such person before collecting or using such information and also inform the person about the intended use of such information.” (We’ve reached our the MCI for comment and will update this story when we hear back.)
So unless Alexander obtained written consent before obtaining the victim’s medical records, he could find himself in violation of India’s privacy law. And his decision to share those records with Kalanick, Michael, and others at Uber may have also crossed the line as well, according to the source. Even if Alexander had obtained her records lawfully, he would have been “strictly prohibited from further disclosing/transferring the information to any third party without the prior consent of the provider of the information,” the source said.
A spokesperson for Uber confirmed that Alexander is no longer with the company, but declined to comment on the matter concerning the handling of a rape victim’s medical records. She did note that the victim previously settled a lawsuit with Uber in excess of $1 million. But the Indian legal source noted that “criminal liability cannot be settled though like this.”
Phillip Bezanson, a white collar defense attorney who specializes in the types of investigations currently underway at Uber, said the revelations about Alexander and the medical records need to be weighed against the bigger picture of multiple investigations into Uber’s toxic culture and corporate practices.
“When the federal government, the Department of Justice, is investigating Uber for various things, they have to make an assessment about Uber under principles of prosecuting business organizations,” he said. “The organization’s culture is a significant component. Whether [the behavior is] strictly illegal or legal is relevant. Things can be legally inappropriate, unseemly, and distasteful, and still color a prosecutors’ view when seeking to resolve far-flung potential criminal investigations.”
Bezanson’s reference to “various things” under investigation isn’t a hypothetical. Uber is currently being probed by the Department of Justice for its use of a digital tool called Greyball which reportedly used to deceive government regulators and hide the number of cars available on its app from law enforcement. Bezanson said the handling of a rape victim’s medical records by top Uber executives “certainly... warrants deeper digging and understanding.”
Alexander’s handling of the victim’s records was among the 215 cases of harassment, bullying, and inappropriate conduct identified by two law firms — Perkins Coie and Covington & Burling — during their probe into Uber’s corporate culture. The Covington & Burling report, including recommendations into what Uber can do to right its wobbling ship, is expected to be released in some form next week. Whether that includes a recommendation that Uber employees refrain from accessing confidential medical records of their customers remains to be seen.




Chinese authorities announced today that a network of scammers extracted data from Apple databases and sold it to Chinese black market vendors, according to a report from The Wall Street Journal. This underground network consisted of dozens of employees of direct Apple suppliers and other firms Apple outsources work to, and the group gathered users’ names, phone numbers, Apple IDs, and other data and then sold it piecemeal for between 10 ($1.47) and 80 yuan ($11.78) per data point, for a total of 50 million yuan ($7.36 million). It’s unclear if the data gathered was only on Chinese Apple users, or if it included users elsewhere too.
It took Chinese authorities, working out of the southern Zhejiang province, months to build the case before arrests were carried out this past weekend across Zhejiang, as well  the Guangdong, Jiangsu, and Fujian provinces. The suspects in question worked in for companies with access to company databases and other tools containing sensitive customer information.
The sale of data in China is nothing new. The country is rife with marketplaces for illegally obtained information, either gleaned from corporate or government databases. However, due to the perception that owners Apple products are more affluent than those with lower-budget smartphones, hackers and other data theft specialists may specifically target iPhone users in an attempt to extort them or gain access to more sensitive data stored in the cloud.
Correction: An earlier version of this article mistakenly identified the suspects as official Apple employees in China. That is incorrect. The employees in question belong to Apple suppliers and companies Apple outsources work to.
Earlier this week Apple announced it will soon be rolling out peer-to-peer payments, effectively (bad pun alert) swiping at services from Square, PayPal-owned Venmo, and giant banks that already let you pay friends through mobile apps.
Apple is well-known for biding its time while it watches other companies enter a market, then coming in later with a product or service it thinks will somehow be better. The peer-to-peer payments service is no exception; the question is whether Apple’s will actually be better than the others.
The short answer is we really don’t know yet. I only saw glimpses of “Apple Pay Cash” at WWDC this week, and wasn’t able to pay a friend through iMessage myself. But I saw enough to make me think that Apple has a very distinct advantage with iMessage, even though it’s limited to iOS devices. At the same time, Apple still has some important feature and naming decisions to make before it officially rolls this out in the fall.
Apple’s peer-to-peer payments are technically a functionality of Apple Pay, but they’ll happen in iMessage. As with Square Cash, the balances you carry from your peer-to-peer exchanges will live on a “virtual card,” called Apple Pay Cash. That virtual card doesn’t live in iMessage. Instead, it appears to exist within Wallet, Apple’s other app for keeping track of credit and debit cards, loyalty cards, and boarding passes.
So: the payments exchange is a function of Apple Pay, you’ll exchange the money in iMessage, and the virtual balance will live on the Apple Pay Cash virtual card in Wallet. I can’t help but think this should be less confusing.
Maybe Apple should create its own payments and money-tracking app that offers passcode-protected access to your billing information, cards, iTunes purchase information, monthly cloud storage costs, the peer-to-peer option, and a log of your Pay Cash exchanges. Kind of like ... a bank app. Or maybe not; maybe creating a separate app for services that already work invisibly is a step backwards, and iOS users will be just fine paying in iMessage. But if Apple has a grander vision beyond the virtual balance customers will soon be keeping on their phones — which I think it does — then a bank-like app is one place to start.
Another element of Apple’s new payments option that’s missing right now is the ability to write a specific memo of what you paid people for. Venmo’s open social network for payments is well-known; many users like Venmo for this reason. Square Cash’s ledger is private, but you still have the ability to later go back and see that I paid “$10 for pizza” or “$25 for pet sitting.”
Currently there doesn’t appear to be anything in Apple Pay Cash that lets you do this, aside from the iMessage exchange that you’ll eventually forget, like “Hey can you pay me $10 for that pizza?” There will be a log of the money exchanged, but not what the exchange is for. I suspect this is for privacy reasons — Apple has stressed privacy more than almost any other tech company — but I still think there needs to be some sort of option for this.
The most obvious advantage for Apple in all of this, though, is iMessage, at least in the US. While there’s a very valid argument to be made that Venmo, Square Cash, and big bank apps will still be more useful because they work on both iOS and Android, Apple doesn’t have to worry about establishing a network for peer-to-peer payments. The network for payments already exists among iOS users: iMessage. It will be right there in the native messaging app, and the people you’re chatting with are probably the same people you’ll want to pay.
You could make the same argument for Facebook and its Messenger install base. You can also argue that Square has a little Square Cash app for iMessage already. But Apple Pay Cash also has the Apple brand behind it, which people give their payment information to the moment they sign up for an iTunes account or set up Apple Pay. If Apple’s on-stage promise of ridiculously easy peer-to-peer payments pans out in real life, than a lot of iPhone users may find themselves becoming “P2P” people without even having to download a separate app.
Some of the initial reactions to Apple’s suggested payments feature, one that will subtly suggest you pay up if your friend happens to iMessage you a dollar amount, was that this will be awkward or rude. But to me it does seem smart, because it’s utilizing the intelligence on the phone in a way that I haven’t seen any other payment apps do yet. Think word suggestions in your messages, but instead of prompting you to type words, it’s reminding you to pay friends back.
A lot of people are already familiar with mobile peer-to-peer payments, but there’s also still a lot of room for growth. According to Javelin Strategy and Research, the number of US mobile peer-to-peer users will grow from 69 million in 2015 to 126 million by 2020; by 2021, one in two consumers are expected be using P2P apps. And that’s just in the US. What’s more interesting about most current peer-to-peer payments services is that they actually don’t make money for the companies that offer them. So the value of them, at least for now, is luring people in to use other services from the same company.
We won’t know exactly how convenient payments in iMessage and the Apple Pay Cash card are until it launches in the fall, and we’ll have to compare it to existing apps then. But it will have to offer a level of simplicity that other services don’t — whether in iMessage or in other areas of the payments service.




Back in December, when Pandora first announced Premium, its all-you-can-stream music service, the company showed off a feature called AutoPlay — brought back to life from Rdio — that would keep the music going by creating a radio station based on what you were just listening to. But when Premium launched in March, AutoPlay had been held out of the initial release while the company fine tuned the product.
But now it’s ready, and available to all Premium users on iOS and Android starting today. AutoPlay will create a station based off the album or playlist you were just listening to, and users can give songs a thumbs up or down, which will further personalize the feature to your liking. The idea was good enough that Spotify released out the same feature earlier this year, months before Pandora Premium even rolled out.
Despite the delayed release of AutoPlay, Premium seems to be off to a decent start for the company. Pandora users who have tried Premium have increased their listening hours by 30 percent, the company says. Premium’s flagship “add similar songs” feature, which can create a tailored playlist for you on the fly, has shown a strong success rate, with users keeping 86 percent of the songs it recommends.
But with the first wave of trials coming to an end, Pandora’s task now moves from getting people onboard with the Premium trial to turning them into paying users. And that’s a challenge for even the biggest streaming services.
The AutoPlay feature is available as part of an update to Pandora Premium on iOS and Android today.
Wireless carriers are forever looking for another way to extract money from their customers. That's their business, after all. But all too often, it leads to an awful experience for consumers who are tricked into using crappy apps and — less often — crappy hardware.
For a few years, it’s been common for wireless carriers to try to convince you to buy a cheap, no-name Android tablet when you went in to buy a phone. Now, apparently, they're going to try to convince you to buy a not-at-all-cheap, no-name Android smartwatch.
Say hello to the Verizon Wear24, a generic Android Wear 2.0 smartwatch with LTE, an anodyne design, and not nearly enough going for it to justify the $349.99 asking price. It's absolutely, positively not worth the $299 price you pay by signing a two-year contract.
Verizon's Wear24 is a white-label gadget made by Quanta, a company you’ve probably never heard of, and one certainly not known anywhere in the watchmaking world. It's a relatively large watch, thanks to the LTE radio that lets you send texts and even make calls from your own phone number. It's not as large as some other Android Wear 2.0 watches, such as the LG Watch Sport, but it is still going to turn off anybody who doesn't already like big watches.
It's a bland-looking watch, with a non-removable rubber strap and a choice of three colors. I don't have a particular problem with a forgettable-looking smartwatch; for some, they're more utility than fashion accessory.
Despite its size, the Wear24 isn't chock-full of features you get on other large watches. It lacks a heart rate sensor and ambient light detector. It also lacks a rotating crown or bezel, so all your scrolling has to happen with swipes. It does have an NFC chip, but (sadly and unsurprisingly) Verizon has chosen not to support Android Pay on this watch.
I can say some nice things about the hardware, though. It's fast and responsive, and the screen is good looking even though you have to manually ratchet up the brightness to see it outdoors. The best thing about it is the battery life: even with LTE on, I was able to get a little more than a day out of it — which is more than the competing LG Watch Sport often gets.
The software is pretty much bog standard Android Wear 2.0, which is both good and bad. The number, breadth, and quality of the apps available to download directly on Android Wear 2.0 all still feel anemic. You can get the basics for the stuff you'd like on a smartwatch, but most people will end up just using the watchface and notification features.
You can make calls on it, but doing so with the onboard speaker is a pretty awful experience; you'll definitely want to pair some Bluetooth headphones to it. You can also send and receive texts, but Verizon encourages users to use its own Messaging app. Verizon's Messaging app is bad. It's also available on phones, and in theory it solves one of the problems with SMS by syncing them across devices like iMessage.
In practice, using Verizon's Messaging app on the watch means you have to use it on the phone if you don't want double text notifications. So I dutifully tried it again for the first time in years. As I wrote out my first text, Verizon automatically highlighted a word and turned it into a helpful link that it could monetize via ads. Nobody wants that, Verizon. Literally nobody.
Look, the Wear24 is a perfectly competent smartwatch. It nails basics like notifications, messaging, watchfaces, and more. It has better battery life than some of its competition. It is not a horrible product. It's just not as good as it should be for $349.99.
If you're savvy enough to avoid Verizon's crapware and need a watch with LTE, I could see myself recommending the Wear24 as a basic, no-frills option — but only if it came with a basic, no-frills price, which it does not. That’s a shame, because watches like this can be genuinely useful for some people. Not everybody carries their phone everywhere they go, and not just because they're out for a run. Some employers don't allow their employees to carry a phone with them, so this could be a good alternative.
The good thing about Android Wear is that it allows nearly anybody to quickly and easily make a smartwatch. It has meant that lots of traditional watch companies, like Fossil, can offer smart versions of their watches.
The bad thing about Android Wear is that it allows nearly anybody to quickly and easily make a smartwatch. It has meant that Verizon can throw these things on their store shelves where innocent consumers might see them and buy one.

I’m perfectly aware that everyone in the world has tuned in to watch former FBI director James Comey testify in front of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and that many of those people are tweeting about it. I am also aware that it is an important event and that I’ll have to read some considered analysis of it at some point as part of my responsibility as a citizen.
But here’s another thing I’m aware of: almost everyone is tweeting boring jokes, bad political commentary, or, for whatever reason, hastily made graphics with quotes from the testimony. Yeah, we’re all watching it right now! We heard him!
The only person tweeting anything that is helping me mildly enjoy this legal marathon — and the unpleasantness of looking at a nine-foot-tall projection of various US senators on the wall of a Brooklyn coffee shop — is former villain of MTV’s The Hills, Spencer Pratt. He is, in general, very good at tweeting, and today he is following his standard formula: twisting a major news event to be in some way about his personal reality TV career, which ended seven years ago, then getting bored and deciding it’s time for a burrito.
When reached for comment via Twitter DM and asked why he chose to live tweet the hearing, Pratt said “I love reality shows.”
Here are my favorite tweets:
I'm so jealous of comey with all these paps pic.twitter.com/JoVJPs4kXF
"Not a question I can answer in open settings" is my new go to
Is this a 21 minute show or 43min without commercials
Woooooaaaah don't be shading press like this braaahhdda
The producers gotta give this cast some more drinks
Mom just got a shout out
I wanna eat a burrito in a scif
I am also bored, and I want lunch. Spencer Pratt: voice of a generation.
Update June 8th, 12:23 PM ET: Updated to include comment from Pratt.
Everyone has that friend who claims they can distinguish between two drinks that, to everyone else, taste exactly the same. It’s hard to tell if they’re lying, but scientists have now created an artificial tongue that can actually do the same thing for whiskies — and this method could one day be helpful for drug safety.
It’s not just imagination: a lot of whiskies really are very similar, and the average person probably can’t tell one from another. For a study published today in the journal Chem, scientists tried to develop a way to distinguish whiskey at the chemical level. So, they created sensors that work just like the different taste receptors on a tongue, and used them to differentiate more than 30 different whiskies. This technique, unlike others, is useful because you can identify something using the original mixture, says co-author Uwe Bunz, an organic chemist at Germany’s Heidelberg University. Most of the time, you identify a mixture by separating its various parts by weight. You don’t need to do that here because you can just have the overall mixture interact with different solutions.
Our tongues have different receptors for different flavors — like sweet versus salty versus bitter. When you eat something, the molecules in the food interact with the different receptors to create the overall taste of a pickle, or Dijon mustard.
The research team’s sensors don’t look like a tongue, but they work the same way. It’s a series of tubes filled with a solution of different colors. All of them are fluorescent, meaning that they glow when you shine a blacklight on them. When you add a drop of whiskey, the chemicals in the whiskey interact with the solution to make it either more or less fluorescent.
Next, Bunz used a machine called a plate reader to measure exactly how much the whiskies changed the solution. From this, they found a unique pattern of intensities for each of the different whiskies. “You can even discriminate Irish whiskies from Scotch-blended, and single malt from double malt,” says Bunz.
The group has done the same thing with different white wines and, next up, will experiment with red wines. It’s not just about alcohol, though: in the future, this could be used to tell fake drugs apart from real ones.

Apple often makes make it near impossible to upgrade its computers, and its new iMac isn’t officially upgradeable, either. Whatever specs you buy it with is probably what you’re going to have until you buy a new one. But these new iMacs do have a few components you can swap out for something better — if you’re brave enough.
iFixit tore apart a new iMac and found that it has removable RAM and a modular CPU. This is the first iMac to have a modular CPU since 2012 and expandable memory since 2013. While iFixit is pretty psyched about these developments, it doesn’t mean these upgrades will be easy to accomplish for the average user. iFixit says the iMac is very difficult to take apart, and gives an overall low score for repairability, but at least it’s possible now. If you’re an enterprising and adventurous iMac user, you could theoretically take apart your $1,100 computer and make it better. Good luck, and check out that RAM:
Spotify has released a new personalized playlist called “Summer Rewind” that gives users a playlist of their favorite songs from the summers of years past. Spotify users who have been on the service for at least a year will get a collection of their most streamed “songs of the summer” from previous years.
Summer Rewind is the latest in a long line of personal playlists Spotify has rolled out over the past couple years. Those playlists, led by Discover Weekly, have kept Spotify users engaged despite the flurry of exclusives from Apple Music and Tidal, so it’s no surprise that Spotify would keep adding to its most heralded feature. Summer Rewind is available for Spotify users in 20 countries starting today.

Xiamoi’s new flagship Mi 6 phone launched in April with top-of-the-line specs, like the Snapdragon 835 processor, 6GB of RAM, a 5.15-inch display, and a 12-megapixel dual camera system. It also includes an 8-megapixel front-facing camera with an automatic beautifying filter and AI that’ll try to guess your gender and age. Why does it do this? I have no idea.
I tested the feature out this week, only to determine that it doesn’t work well. Shocker. I’m 26, but the camera thought I was 24, 27, 40, and 29 at one point. It also wavered between marking me as a female or male. (Again, why?) Apparently glasses aged me and made me look more manly. You can see the results in the photos below. I tried to give myself wrinkles, but that didn’t have much of an effect on the AI’s age and gender decision. It didn’t correctly guess my colleagues’ ages, either.
Phones that are created primarily for markets outside of the US often include superfluous camera features, like overt beauty filters and other selfie gimmicks, but including an age- and gender-guessing AI is a bizarre move.
Granted, other companies have built similar functionality. Amazon released a tool earlier this year that attempted to guess people’s ages, too, although it provides an age range as opposed to an exact number. Microsoft also launched an age-guessing website that failed miserably and subsequently went viral. At least in Amazon’s case, the goal was to give developers a tool for general object recognition and labeling for their products and services. I don’t see a legitimate reason for Xiaomi making its age guesses available to its users. I guess if it consistently told people they look younger than they are, however, then maybe that’d be a feature worth having.
Facebook is working with three organizations — UNICEF, the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, and the World Food Programme — on a new maps initiative that aims to improve how communities are helped after disasters.
Called disaster maps, the resource uses “aggregated, de-identified” Facebook data to provide key information organizations said would be most helpful in improving how they respond and provide relief in the immediate hours after a crisis.
Three types of maps are available. Location-density maps show where people are physically located before, during, and after a crisis, and are compared to historical records (like population estimates). Movement maps show patterns of movement over a period of hours so organizations can better predict where to direct resources. Finally, Safety Check maps display where people check in safely following a disaster, showing where help may be needed.
This data could crucially change the way relief is provided in the immediate aftermath of a crisis. Dale Kunce, global lead for information communication technology and analytics for the American Red Cross, tells VOA News that after a disaster, “We might know where the house is, but we don't know where the people are. Our first reaction may be to go to where the devastation happened, but maybe most people are 10 miles away, staying with families when they reported they were safe. So the place to go may be where they are.”
In the past, disaster response professionals relied on Facebook Live and other video tools to gather immediate information to help inform how and where to allocate resources. On the user side, Facebook currently offers Community Help in conjunction with Safety Check, a feature that lets users find or offer food, shelter, transportation, and other forms of aid.
The company intends to roll out disaster maps for use by governments and additional organizations in the future, promising that “all applications will be reviewed carefully by people at Facebook, including those with local expertise.”
It’s clear that Facebook has a wealth of data on users who agree to use the service, and   while the announcement of sharing more user information can raise hackles for some, for now we have to take its word that the data is being shared as stated, and will help those at their most vulnerable.

Tidal and Sprint are releasing an exclusive film starring Mahershala Ali, Lupita Nyong’o, and Danny Glover called 4:44. Tidal aired an ad during the NBA finals revealing the project, which has been teased around the web through enigmatic ads.
Few other details have been provided about 4:44. The film is NC-17; the moody black-and-white trailer features Mahershala Ali wailing on a punching bag in a slow-mo training montage.
Excited to bring @Sprint customers exclusive content through our partnership with @TIDALHiFi - more news coming tomorrow!! pic.twitter.com/YIbZ4h5Zoq
At the Oscars earlier this year, Ali took home the award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in Moonlight.
The partnership with Sprint on the film is unsurprising, given the company bought a 33  percent stake in Tidal in January. At the time, Sprint said the deal would give its subscribers “unlimited access to exclusive artist content not available anywhere else.”


Scientists say that climate change is one of the most pressing issues of our time. But if you ask policy makers, you might hear them argue that combatting it is just too expensive a battle to fight. President Trump called the Paris climate accord a “self-inflicted major economic wound” when he announced that the US will back out of the agreement. He’s also proposed slashing the Environmental Protection Agency’s budget by 31 percent. Mick Mulvaney, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, said that funding efforts to curb rising global temperatures are “a waste of your money.”
But they are dangerously wrong. In fact, experts say that the economic costs of climate change are so massive that delayed action, or inaction, is the most expensive policy option out there.
OMB Director Mick Mulvaney on climate change: "We consider that to be a waste of your money" https://t.co/JaqaoOPfhZ
First, let’s get this out of the way: there is overwhelming evidence that climate change is real, and caused by carbon emissions. Scientifically, the debate’s over and this is our fault — no matter how much Scott Pruitt or Ryan Zinke try to duck responsibility on behalf of humankind.
Second, there are big chunks of the US economy that depend on the global temperature staying put — like the agriculture and fish industries, for example. All told, the agriculture and food sectors account for more than $750 billion dollars of the United States’ gross domestic product, according to an EPA report.
Physicist William Happer loves to say that plants grow better when there are higher atmospheric levels of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide, but that’s only one part of the picture. Most plants also have specific temperature and moisture ranges. And as global temperatures climb, severe droughts, extreme rain and snowfall, flooding, and heatwaves have already started to increase — making it a lot harder to grow crops no matter how much they love guzzling down that CO2.
We’ve started seeing some of the consequences of climate change on agriculture already, according to a government report: high temperatures in 2011 cost meat producers more than $1 billion dollars in what the EPA called “heat-related losses.” Unseasonably warm evenings in 2012 caused Michigan’s cherry crop to bud too early, causing $220 million in damage. California’s record-setting drought, which was exacerbated by global warming, cost the state’s agriculture sector $603 million and 4,700 jobs between 2015 and 2016. Unchecked climate change will hit farmers where it hurts.
Let’s talk coastal property, too, since we know how much time President Trump spends at Mar-a-Lago. Florida’s in big trouble because of the sea level rise, a consequence of the warming planet. By 2050, between $15 billion and $23 billion of property will be underwater in the state. By the end of the 21st century, that could climb to between $53 billion and $208 billion, according to The Risky Business Project’s Climate Risk Assessment. And that’s just in Florida. Nationwide, The Risky Business Project estimates that anywhere from $66 billion to $106 billion of coastal real estate is probably going to hard to enjoy without a snorkel by the year 2050.
This is bad for more than just Mar-a-Lago: massive coastal flooding could also have major ripple effects on the economy, according to a report by government-sponsored mortgage company Freddie Mac. Coastal businesses could relocate or simply go under, taking jobs with them. Lenders and mortgage insurers could also suffer huge losses because, the report says, “It is less likely that borrowers will continue to make mortgage payments if their homes are literally underwater.” It gets worse: “Non-economic losses may be substantial as some communities disappear or unravel. Social unrest may increase in the affected areas.”
Big picture: global warming could cause the global economy to plummet — leading to a 23 percent drop in gross domestic product per person by the year 2100, according to a 2015 study published in Nature. “We’re basically throwing away money by not addressing the issue," Marshall Burke, an assistant professor at Stanford University, told Time.
Even bankers agree — and they’re not known for being tree-huggers. A 2015 report published by Citigroup estimates that that climate change could cost the global economy between $2 trillion and $72 trillion between 2015 and 2060. Who else but a group of financial wonks could write something like this: “The cumulative losses to global GDP from climate change impacts (‘Inaction’) from 2015 to 2060 are estimated at $2 trillion to $72 trillion depending on the discount rate and scenario used. Lower discount rates encourage early action.”
The Department of Defense not only acknowledges climate change, but warns that it could exacerbate “poverty, social tensions, environmental degradation, ineffectual leadership and weak political institutions that threaten stability in a number of countries.” ProPublica recently obtained an unpublished testimony by Secretary of Defense James Mattis, who told the Senate Armed Services Committee, “Climate change can be a driver of instability and the Department of Defense must pay attention to potential adverse impacts generated by this phenomenon.”
One of the most frustrating parts of Mulvaney’s press conference is that he can just lob statements like fighting climate change is a “waste of money” out into the world — and people might believe it. But there are real experts out there, who spend time and money to collect data, analyze it, and publish their results before their conclusions might be somewhat accepted as something resembling fact.
Maybe politicians making claims about science they don’t understand should have to go through the scientific peer-review process — even Reviewer 2 wouldn’t let Mulvaney get away with this kind of wild talk:
We wish to thank Reviewer 2 for their insightful monograph and sincerely apologize for not having written the paper they wish they had.
The most painful part? Even the world’s best efforts to combat climate change might not be good enough. But waiting to start fighting global warming — or sitting out the fight altogether — is a bad deal for America’s future. Given President Trump’s claims about his business acumen, he, of all people, should see that.
Update June 8th 11:00AM ET: This article was originally published on March 16, 2017 and has been updated to include a video, and relevant current events.
Correction: An earlier version of this article stated “from $66 billion to $106 billion of coastal real estate is probably going to hard to enjoy without a snorkel by the year 2100.” The correct date is 2050. We regret the error.
Former FBI director James Comey’s testimony in front of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is streaming live on Twitch News, from 10AM ET to 1PM ET. It’s a good option if you’re not in front of a TV or, like me, an uncomfortably enormous projection in a Brooklyn coffee shop.
Among other things, Comey is expected to testify that President Trump sought an inappropriate relationship between the FBI and the White House, and will be asked about the FBI’s investigation into former national security advisor Michael Flynn.
Today’s stream is another example of Twitch branching out from game streaming, following streams of the Democratic and Republican National Conventions last summer, and all 886 episodes of Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood last month.
Twitch product marketing manager Brian Petrocelli said in a press release, “When we live streamed the Republican and Democratic National Conventions on Twitch last year, followed by a broadcast from the White House, our community had the opportunity to engage in civic-minded content, while conversing with one another in chat. Because they enthusiastically embraced this interactive public service experiment, it inspired us to experiment further with a News channel dedicated to bi-partisan landmark events beginning with the Comey hearings.”
No offense, Brian, but the comments, just a few minutes into the proceedings, are already wild. Though, the stream seems to be running smoothly.
Though Apple didn't have much to say about HomeKit during its keynote presentation on Monday, it turns out the company's smart home system is seeing some very notable changes this year. The updates center on two things: making HomeKit more flexible for users, and making it much easier for developers to start building new products.
The second of those is arguably the bigger deal. Until now, anyone that wanted to create a HomeKit product had to join Apple's licensing program just to get started. That big hurdle is being removed, and Apple will now allow any registered developer to start building a HomeKit device. Forbes says that devs can even put something together using a Raspberry Pi or Arduino now.
There is one very big catch here: HomeKit devices built this way — without an official certification — won't be able to go up for sale. They're only meant for development or personal use.
Still, that'll allow hobbyists to build their own smart home gadgets that integrate with iOS, which is pretty cool. And it'll make it much easier for developers who are thinking about building a product with HomeKit to get started, which means we could see more companies building compatible devices.
Apple is also making one other big change to simplify development: it's no longer requiring that every HomeKit device contain a specific security chip. Instead, it'll allow companies to authenticate their devices entirely using software. Smart home devices out on that market that don’t already support HomeKit will even be able to use this method to add HomeKit support after iOS 11 launches this fall.
That should make life easier for HomeKit device manufacturers in general. HomeKit is mostly unique among smart home systems by requiring all devices to contain a specific chip, complicating hardware development. By allowing manufacturers to do it all through software, HomeKit should now be much easier to implement alongside compatibility with services like Alexa, SmartThings, and Wink.
This is meaningful for one other reason, too: that HomeKit authentication chip had a cost, and this software method doesn’t. While device manufacturers will still have to go through the full certification process if they want to sell anything, they won’t get charged by Apple along the way, which may have previously discouraged some companies from participating in HomeKit. It also means that Apple is giving up a source of revenue in order to spark a bigger ecosystem of devices.
On top of these updates to make building HomeKit devices easier, Apple is also expanding what HomeKit can do in ways that consumers will notice. It's adding two new categories of supported products, sprinklers and faucets, and it's adding a bunch of new ways to trigger actions at home.
One of the simpler updates, but a favorite of mine, is an enhancement to the sunrise and sunset triggers. Those can now be offset by some amount of time, so you could, for instance, have the lamps in your home turn on shortly before the sun goes down at night.
Apple is adding temperature triggers, too, so that events can be kicked off when the temperature goes above or below a certain point. And it's getting better at tracking when people are in the house. It'll now track specific people, instead of individual devices, and use that to better tell you when someone leaves or arrives home. In iOS 11, that'll allow HomeKit users to set things to happen when the last person leaves the house or when someone's arriving home to an empty house.
There will also be a way to temporarily turn on certain devices. Apple gave the example of opening a door at night and having outside lights turn on for just a few minutes, instead of turning on and staying on as they’d have to currently.
This is all still pretty basic stuff, but it shows Apple continuing to chip away at low-lying smart home problems. And that’s steadily making these devices into much more useful ways to augment a home.
Correction June 8th, 1:14PM ET: Apple has clarified that the software authentication method will not include any sort of licensing fees. This story also initially stated that sunrise and sunset triggers were new; in fact, it’s only timing offsets that are new.
Microsoft is just days away from unveiling its Project Scorpio Xbox console to the world, but that doesn’t mean the company isn’t ready to remember when PC gaming was ever so simple. In an oddly timed YouTube ad, Microsoft has started advertising its modern Solitaire app that works with Xbox Live. The one-minute commercial is mostly designed to push Xbox Live, but with Solitaire as the focus.
Microsoft first introduced Solitaire in 1990 with Windows 3.0, and it was used widely as a great way to avoid doing real work on a computer or to cure office boredom. In the modern era, Microsoft has been forced to bring Solitaire to iOS and Android, alongside Windows 10. It’s not entirely clear why Microsoft feels the need to suddenly advertise Solitaire for Xbox Live, or why there’s a polar bear involved, but maybe it will all become clear on Sunday when the company outlines its plans for the future of its gaming platform.
If you asked the average American “Where is the theme park capital of the world?” they’d tell you Orlando, Florida. But friends, these people would be wrong. The theme park capital of the world is Japan, home to a variety of local parks, small and large. It also has a massive Disneyland that’s a mishmash of the best bits of other Disney theme parks, and DisneySea, an entirely original venue with rides designed for Japan’s adult population. With Japan hosting the Olympics in 2020, its theme parks are expanding even further. Universal Studios Japan, located in Osaka, is constructing Super Nintendo World, a new land inspired by Super Mario. Today, it has released the first teaser.
The final shot suggests a layout for the land. A Mushroom Kingdom entrance echoes the classic Disneyland castle design. The path through the park progresses like a classic Mario game, beginning with the grassy terrain, before moving to colorful boxes, giant mushroom pads, and ice blocks. The promenade culminates at Bowser’s castle.
As Kotaku notes, the teaser follows this week’s reveal of a Super Mario-themed stage at Universal Studios Japan.
Alongside the opening of Super Nintendo World at Universal Studios in 2020, Disney will be upgrading its Tokyo parks with lands inspired by Big Hero 6 and Beauty and the Beast. This three-year window (2017–2020) is something of a surge for theme parks. Disney opened its first Marvel ride and an Avatar-themed land this past month.
This week, it’s Apple’s turn to take over The Vergecast. Dieter, Jake, and Lauren just returned from WWDC (Nilay and Paul watched from afar), so the gang has a lot to talk about regarding the new products that were announced.
Nilay went on Lauren’s show Too Embarrassed to Ask, while Jake and Dieter joined Nilay and Paul for Vergecast.
Ben Popper also stops by the show to talk about DJI’s newest drone, the Spark.
There’s a whole lot more in between that, so listen to it all and you’ll get it all.
04:56 - Apple announces HomePod speaker to take on Sonos
32:14 - DJI Spark review with Ben Popper
47:22 - Apple announces new 10.5-inch iPad Pro
1:02:51 - Apple is launching an iOS ARKit for augmented reality apps
1:06:05 - iMac Pro introduced / macOS High Sierra
1:18:37 - watchOS 4 brings new Siri watchface, fitness coaching, and a new app-browsing UI
1:21:32 - Paul’s weekly segment “Gates-all-around, all around”
If you enjoyed this podcast, there’s kinda more you can listen to! There’s Ctrl-Walt-Delete which will be airing our final episode in the next week, and Verge Extras, which experiments with audio and podcasting in new and interesting ways. You might also want to check out Recode Decode, hosted by Kara Swisher, and Too Embarrassed to Ask hosted by Lauren Goode! You can find them all in iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, and anywhere you get your podcasts nowadays.
It’s a little hard to believe, but Pokémon Go has been out for almost a full year. To celebrate, Niantic Labs announced that it’s planning a number of in-game and in-person events.
The first big event, called the Solstice Event, will take place in the game. This will happen on June 13th, and it’ll include Fire-type and Ice-type pokémon, XP bonuses, and discounted Lucky Eggs. The team also announced that it’ll soon release a new update that focuses on collaborative gameplay which hints at a “new way” to play the game, but will also temporarily close down in-game gyms for a short while.
Diehard players can also take part in the first in-person event in July: Pokémon Go Fest Chicago, which is scheduled for July 22nd, 2017. Tickets for the event will go on sale on June 19th. (Pricing and schedule are not currently available, so it’s unclear what will actually go down at the festival.) There are other events planned for Europe between July and September, too, while Japan will get an event called “Pikachu Outbreak” in Yokohama in August. More details on those events are forthcoming.
It’s not clear what the new collaborative gameplay update will be. It’s rumored that the company is giving the gyms a bit of an update to help combat cheating, and that it’s planning on introducing raids. Allowing players to team up or play against one another in the gyms feels like a logical step. Pokémon has always been an enormously collaborative franchise, and the emphasis for players to not only play against each other, but meet one another in the real world is something that’s been credited for making it the powerhouse that it is today.
Middle-earth: Shadow of War has a new story trailer that focuses less on showing off gameplay and more on setting the stage for the new chapter in Talion and Celebrimbor’s adventure.
Where the first game tried to position itself as a potential lost chapter of a story that could fit in the cracks between Tolkien’s existing books, Shadow of War seems to be throwing out a strict adherence to the canon in favor of tossing in everything but the kitchen sink. Which, by and large, feels like a good thing: it gives the game more room to tell its own story without feeling weighed down by the constraints of the existing canon.
It’s hard to get a handle on exactly what’s going on or who the major players are beyond Talion and Celebrimbor. But it seems that the duo have completed Talion’s goal from the last game and forged a new Ring of Power to challenge Sauron’s rule. Sauron, in turn, seems to be sending the Ringwraiths to take the new ring from Talion, who is, similar to the last game, is raising an army to try and take Mordor back from under Sauron’s rule.
“Nothing will be forgotten,” the trailer intones at one point, and it seems that Shadow of War is taking that serious, with almost no corner of Tolkien’s world being left untouched. There’s hordes of orcs, the Nazgûl, the Army of the Dead, drakes, the One Ring, Sauron, a Palantír, some kind of giant tree woman, a mysterious dark-haired woman, soldiers of Gondor (one can do magic?), giant spiders, and what appears to be a fiery Balrog covered in armor.
Shadow of War is the upcoming sequel to 2014’s Shadow of Mordor. It sees the expanded return of the first game’s critically lauded Nemesis system, where enemies you battle will return throughout the game for a constantly changing, unique experience where the actions you take can come back to quite literally haunt you. An early look at gameplay released back in March gave a good first look at how some of that will play out, along with the new fortress mechanic that looks to be a central part of the game.
Middle-earth: Shadow of War launches October 10th on PS4, Xbox One, and PC.
Earlier this year, Dish introduced a new feature that let customers control their DVR using Amazon’s Alexa. That meant being able to search for specific shows and load up apps like Netflix, all by using voice commands via an Echo or Echo Dot. Now, Amazon is offering up the same back-end functionality to all developers. Meaning — hopefully — that a lot more cable companies will add support for Alexa voice control in the future.
Per Amazon’s blog post: “Companies can now teach Alexa how to interface with their video content and services. This means you can now build experiences that allow your customers to easily find and consume video content without invoking a specific skill. For example, a customer could say, ‘Alexa, play Manchester by the Sea’ without specifying a provider or device. Through the Video Skill API, Alexa is aware of video devices and services your customer has or subscribes to.”
It’s potentially a very handy service, and offering skills like this shows why Amazon is ahead in the race to create the most functional digital home assistant. However, not many developers have taken the company up on the offer yet — just Dish in the US, and YouView and Netgem in the UK. Though only a few services have added Alexa integration, there doesn’t seem to be any reason why Netflix, Hulu, or other popular services could add it as well, so this might get more interesting in the future.
My first reaction to Apple's WWDC announcement of iOS drag and drop was basically, "Lol welcome to three decades ago." But after watching a more in-depth technical explanation of the technology at Apple's follow-up Platforms State of the Union, I'm starting to wonder if Apple has a new “pinch to zoom” on its hands: a technology that doesn't just allow for multitouch devices to compete with point-and-click desktop experiences, but in a way, it surpasses them.
iOS’s drag and drop from a user’s perspective is fairly simple. You press and hold on an object, and it's pinned to your finger. Then you drag the item to wherever you want it to go, and release. On an iPhone, your drop destination is limited to elsewhere in the same app, but on the iPad you can drag an item down to the new universal dock in iOS 11, jump to the app switcher view and switch apps, or hover over an app that's already open in splitscreen, all while holding on to your original selection.
What makes iOS drag and drop special is that you can grab multiple things at once, and they don't all have to be within a convenient marquee selection range. You can keep hold of the first object; navigate elsewhere in the app; grab something else, which is then added to the "stack" of stuff under your finger; and keep adding until you're satisfied. On a desktop it's possible to select non-contiguous items for drag and drop with shift click or control click, but I'm unaware of a system for grabbing onto multiple items from multiple views outside of fancy clipboard hacks.
When you’re dragging something around on iOS, multitouch means you can still fully interact with the rest of the OS. On a desktop, once you’re holding something with the cursor, you’re limited to what you can hover over for a drop target and what keyboard commands can marshal.
One demo Apple provided is on the familiar iOS home screen. It’s been rebuilt with the drag-and-drop API, and that means you can grab an app, swipe to another screen, grab a few more apps, and then drop them all at once into a folder. A huge win over the one-at-a-time limitation that’s always been present on iOS.
According to Apple’s documentation, you can actually have multiple of these drag activities going on at once. “As many as the user’s fingers can handle,” is the official spec, which sounds bonkers.
Multi-grab makes iOS drag and drop stand out, but it's Apple's APIs that could make it even more powerful. It's all thanks to the blessing and curse of iOS: Apple's stranglehold control on how apps talk to each other in the operating system. To make an item available for drag and drop, developers have to implement a specific API from Apple, which allows them to specify thumbnails, metadata, and the exact data payload. When a user hovers an item or a collection of items over another app, that app can see the metadata, but not the actual payload, for security reasons. But the ability to use metadata hints and arbitrary data formats in a drag-and-drop interaction could unlock really interesting new inter-app workflows and interactions.
For instance, dragging a location from Maps includes a detailed thumbnail preview, which will show up when you drop that location into an app that supports images — like Notes, for instance. That sort of “expansion” is a common feature in apps like Messages or Slack, but now it’s baked into a very basic part of the UI.
Adobe gave a demonstration where a presenter selected a few color samples and a brush from the company’s Capture app and placed them into Photoshop Sketch, all in one drag-and-drop operation. The presenter then grabbed multiple layers from Sketch and placed them into Photoshop Mix. In Mix you can even target a location on the canvas for the assets to land, or place them in the layer stack.
Any app that implements the standard text controls of iOS gets basic drag and drop for free, and other Apple-built UI tech, like table views, will work well with drag and drop out of the gate. But if developers embrace the extended opportunities here, we could see apps with more complicated data types talk to each in really novel new ways.
Maybe you could drag a video file from an editing app into an app that only accepts images and get the video's thumbnail, or drop it into an audio app and extract the audio. Or drag a file from Dropbox and drop it as a URL in an app that doesn't support that kind of file. Apple has already shown interoperability between data-rich Calendar items and Reminders. Obviously, Adobe is using custom layer and brush data formats to make it easier to jump between its own iOS apps, but conceivably any other design app could implement support for these data types.
Maybe I’m overhyping this. So much is left up to developers that rich drag-and-drop actions could be too rare to matter. For this to work, you need a lot of apps to speak a common language, and Apple is only specifying a format for very generic assets. But if it goes well, I can now imagine a world where better drag and drop is a reason to pick iOS over macOS for complicated, multi-app workflows. Is that crazy to say out loud?
When Apple announced HomePod at WWDC, I was thrown for a loop. After months of rumors, the Cupertino company was expected to launch some sort of Siri-focused speaker that would serve as the vanguard in an effort to elevate the digital assistant to a viable competitor for Alexa, Assistant, and Cortana.
Instead, Apple zigged when it was expected to zag — launching HomePod with a focus on music. As Apple put it onstage, its goal is nothing less than building a speaker that will "reinvent home music" in the same way that the iPod did for portable music so many years ago.
Much of Apple's presentation was centered around this music-first approach, highlighting things like beamforming audio designed to tune music to the space the speaker is in. The fact that HomePod includes Siri support for home assistant queries like unit conversion, news, weather, traffic, sports, reminders, and timers almost seemed like an afterthought, as did the fact that it serves as a hub for controlling HomeKit-powered smart home devices.
That leaves HomePod in a weird place. On paper, it combines the great audio and multi-room music of a Sonos speaker with the smarts of an Amazon Echo or Google Home. But, while the HomePod may be able to do both of those things, Apple’s speaker is shaping up to be a jack-of-all-trades compromise that ultimately is a master of none.
Put simply: in its current state, HomePod is not competitive with Alexa or the Google Assistant. Siri, as a digital assistant, lacks the intelligence or functionality that its competitors have to offer. Siri is already considered to be one of the worst digital assistants when it comes to answering basic queries, and whether or not that's the case, Apple has taken the puzzling approach of limiting Siri on HomePod to even less than what iOS can do.
It's no surprise that Apple has chosen to put music as the primary sell for HomePod, because without an actual serious investment in building out Siri as a platform — which Apple seems reticent to do — there's no way it can win from the home assistant angle.
Amazon and Google are willing to throw caution to the wind and let users put whatever they want on their Echo and Home. There are thousands of Alexa skills available for the Echo, allowing you to do everything from getting news, to checking your bank account balance, to playing Jeopardy. Google showed off Google Assistant ordering sandwiches at Panera through voice commands, and a multi-platform vision where a Chromecast works in tandem as an external display with a Google Home for visual results.
HomePod, on the other hand, limits you to the same Siri integrations that Apple has always had. Sure, there are a few new tricks when it comes to musical queries, but that's a drop in a bucket compared to the limitless sea of potential that Amazon and Google are opening up. And even putting intelligence aside, Siri is still at a disadvantage when it comes to the basic task of voice recognition, another key part of the equation that Apple largely ignored at WWDC.
Related
It's especially frustrating because Apple had a huge opportunity with Siri here that it could have taken advantage of. Apple has already built the template, too, with things like the Apple Watch and iMessage applications. Why isn't there a HomePod app, where developers can build out extensions to the apps you already have on your iPhone and activate them on your HomePod? Why can’t HomePod link to your iPhone to make FaceTime audio and phone calls, like Apple already has with the Mac?
Apple could have done what it did with the Apple Watch and leveraged its massive advantage in developer community, services, and deep, OS-level integration to turn the Amazon Echo into the Pebble of smart home speaker hubs. HomePod is great for HomeKit, serving as a payoff for anyone who's been investing in Apple's approved smart home gear, allowing hardware developers to deeply tie their products to Siri. Why can't software developers do the same?
As for Apple's narrative that the HomePod is a smart speaker first and a digital assistant second, it's playing catch-up to more established speaker companies that have had time to build out a more mature lineup of hardware. Much like with Siri, Apple is just simply doing less than its competitors here. Sonos offers support for almost every music streaming service under the sun, along with a larger ecosystem with multiple speakers at various sizes and price points (including the ability to add non-Sonos speakers to the network).
HomePod, on the other hand, supports Apple Music, full stop, plus whatever you can stream from an iPhone over AirPlay 2. Multi-room support is limited to more $350 HomePods, or whatever AirPlay 2 speakers get released, but there doesn't seem to be a plan for a Google Chromecast Audio or even an AirPort Extreme type of a solution to add AirPlay 2 to older speakers. Plus, as a single wireless speaker, HomePod is more expensive than any comparable product on the market, including Sonos, a company that has almost always been synonymous with pricey hardware.
The HomePod is a distillation of Apple’s approach to technology, seen in everything from iOS to Siri. It’s a “set it and forget it” product — you plug it in, and Apple’s algorithms, microphones, and APIs do the rest, tuning the sound and configuring things for you. It’s a lot like iOS, where Apple blocks users from more advanced settings like changing default applications or accessing a root file system, since the goal is to be easy to use for all users.
In many ways, the fact that HomePod has these limitations is right in line with what you'd expect from an Apple-built combination of an Echo and a Sonos. That Apple has new hardware with limited third-party development support and is exclusive to Apple's own services isn't really that surprising. Siri on iOS only got third-party extensions a year ago, and developer options there are still extremely limited in what Apple will allow devs to build, despite the fact that Siri beat almost every other digital assistant to market. Similarly, if Apple won't allow you to select a different default music app on your iPhone, why would a Siri speaker be any different?
There is still a lot we don’t know about HomePod. We’re still months away from the planned December release date, and there’s a huge amount that could change between now and then. Apple could be saving an overhauled Siri to accompany an iPhone announcement, for example, or have additional HomePod products in new form factors planned for farther down the line. Price is also presumably able to change, and a $200 HomePod could be a very different proposition than a $350 one.
Right now it looks like the only way the HomePod makes sense is if you're so deeply entrenched in Apple Music and the iOS ecosystem that Apple's services are already the only ones you use. Given that there are millions of people for whom that situation is already the case, it’s likely the HomePod will be a successful product for Apple. It’s a play that Apple has already run with great success so far with the Apple Watch, which was able to leverage the integration with Apple’s existing hardware and software to remain one of the last viable smartwatches standing.
But the Apple Watch also showed that a tight integration with Apple’s other products isn’t quite enough — no one views the Watch as a revolutionary device that changes the way we live, like the iPhone or the iPod were. And given the tremendous potential there seems to be in smart speakers, it’s still disappointing that Apple is playing it safe with the HomePod instead of taking a chance to make something greater.
In most people’s minds, the dedicated portable media player has been consigned to the category of extinction, slotted in somewhere between the woolly mammoth and the saber-toothed cat. The smartphone reduced the Walkman to the size of an app, and only dedicated audiophiles bother to carry a physical device just for music anymore. Except something peculiar has happened recently: smartphone makers have reverted to selling phones without headphone jacks, so all of a sudden there’s a fresh opportunity for PMPs to make a comeback.
And what a comeback this is.
When I first heard about the Astell & Kern Kann, I guffawed at its size and price. This inch-thick slab of aluminum weighs in at 9.8 ounces (278g) and costs an eye-watering $999. In all honesty, I only called it in for review because of how ridiculous it seemed. The Kann has two of everything: two headphone jacks, two line-out ports, two memory card slots, and two USB ports. It's designed to provide more than anyone would need at any one time, and that includes the enormous 6,200mAh battery.
But here's the eyebrow-raising conclusion I've come to after using the Kann for more than a month: it all makes sense. There's nothing excessive about this device, not even its price, and it's all because of the way it actually works. The A&K Kann is the very definition of function-first design.
Astell & Kern Kann specs
4-inch WVGA (800 x 480) display
64GB of built-in storage, expandable via MicroSD and full-size SD cards
WAV, FLAC, WMA, MP3, OGG, APE, AAC, ALAC, AIFF, DFF, DSF, PCM, DSD
802.11b/g/n Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 4.0, AptX HD support
AKM AK4490 digital-to-analog converter
6,200mAh battery
USB-C and MicroUSB ports
3.5mm and 2.5mm balanced headphone and line outputs
The primary advantage of the Kann, relative to any other portable music device, is that it sounds utterly sensational. I have heard Sony's gold-plated $3,200 Walkman, Neil Young's Pono Player, and Astell & Kern's own AK Jr. and AK100 II players, and not one of them has impressed me as much as the Kann. Even audiophile-grade equipment like the Chord Mojo and the desktop-bound Schiit Jotunheim that I have at home doesn't sound as musical and gorgeously melodic as the Kann. I'd go so far as to say that the Kann is the best music playback device I have — others might be purer or even more precise in their audio reproduction, but none of them upgrade the listening experience in such an instantly recognizable way. The Kann stands alone.
My standard for any audio equipment that makes claims of superior sound quality is that the superiority has to be obvious. Don't tell me to sit in the absolute center of my sound-dampened, specially rearranged living room just to get a sense of your exemplary speakers' performance. For the lofty prices usually asked, audiophile equipment should be obviously better. That's why I test primarily with 320kbps MP3 files and don't chase around for uncompressed versions of my favorite songs. The Kann can play the latter just fine, and it supports uncompressed streaming from Tidal, but I wanted to see it show a marked differences with just MP3s, and it totally delivered.
The first album I listened to on the Kann was Led Zeppelin's II, with Audio-Technica's nicely detailed MSR7 headphones serving up the tunes. It was a staggering performance, with all the explicit sexuality of "Squeeze me baby, 'till the juice runs down my leg" coming across in Robert Plant's rasping vocals. I could differentiate between deliberately distorted guitar and the occasions when Jimmy Page was more careful and precise in his strumming. But more than anything, it was the soundstage of the Kann that blew me away. It was like opening up an accordion: all of a sudden, the music I'd heard many times before was presented on a far wider and more luxurious stage, with air between each instrument and the vocals, and ample room to let me pick out minute details and acoustic cues.
My happy experience with the legendary rockers and the good but not exceptional MSR7s was only reaffirmed and amplified by expanding into other genres and other sets of headphones. When I stepped up to the Beyerdynamic Xelento in-ears, which are themselves priced at $999, it all got too much for me. I literally didn't want to move from my seat, even though this is an obviously portable music combo, because I was so transfixed by the music the Xelento and Kann were producing together. Feed Me's A Giant Warrior Descends on Tokyo EP is one of my favored ways for testing the bass on any pair of headphones, and it was just perfect. Nine Inch Nails' Pretty Hate Machine sounds so good through the Kann-Xelento pairing that I no longer want to hear it any other way.
So yes, the Kann scales up in quality if you plug higher-end gear into it, but I found it superb even with the more affordable Shure SE535 in-ears and Oppo PM3 over-ear headphones. With the PM3s, I loved the natural instrumentation of Nitin Sawhney's Displacing the Priest, which definitely benefited from the Kann's expanded soundstage and seemingly boundless dynamic range. The vocals were perfectly delineated from the hand drumming and other background instruments, and the beatboxing felt organic.
The Kann just does wonders with music, and I say this having never previously been wowed by any standalone music player. They all sound good, but the Kann sounds essential. If I want to hear a pair of headphones at its best, I now reach for this silver brick first. The Kann's also versatile and can be used as a digital-to-analog converter and headphone amp plugged into a PC or Mac — I rate its performance as highly as that of a desktop amp, but it just happens to be easily portable too.
I could stop with its world-beating sound, but the Kann has other good things going for it. This player's ratcheted volume dial is a tactile delight, clicking with a mechanical noise that makes it feel like unlocking a combination lock. Yeah, I know, it seems like an unimportant little thing, but I've handed the Kann to dozens of people and they've all wanted to have that dial in their lives in some form. It's a built-in ASMR trigger (or perhaps the sophisticated audiophile's fidget spinner). One smartphone designer I spoke to expressed deep frustration at the constraints of his trade preventing him from putting something as mechanically pleasing as the Kann's jog dial in his designs.
Also awesome: the Kann's battery life. It lasted me a full working week in the Bay Area while covering Google I/O last month, and it still had enough juice to cover my six-hour flight to New York on the Saturday. A major problem holding back other good-sounding PMPs in the Kann's vicinity is that they try to be slim and run out of battery too quickly. The Kann is fat, but it's fat for a good reason. Plus, having a USB-C data and power port means I can always top it up with the same charger I use for my phone and laptop (the MicroUSB connector is for audio only).
Finally, the durability of this music player is beyond reproach. I accidentally dropped the Kann onto hard concrete from waist height (which still makes me cringe when I think about it), and only the plastic bottom picked up minor lacerations. The aluminum case shrugged off the entire thing, which is probably owing to just how much aluminum there is. Almost no expense has been spared.
Almost.
The Kann may be an exceptional new breed of PMP, but it still carries on some of the old family traits. First and most obvious is the screen, which is a 4-incher with WVGA resolution (800 x 480) and decidedly sub-par performance. It washes out easily and looks sinfully ugly sat next to a modern AMOLED display like that on the Google Pixel or Samsung Galaxy S8. I consider this forgivable, especially knowing that audio companies work in such small production batches that they can't get the same economies of scale that a smartphone maker might. Also, the Kann only plays music, so in all honesty I'd have been happy even if it had a screen half the size.
What I'm not happy about is the Android-based UI on the Kann. It's reasonably streamlined, but it's awfully laggy. So I don't have to jump around too much to find my music, but the few jumps I do make invariably test my patience. Loading my album overview shows me placeholder icons for a solid three or four seconds before I see album art. Going into any album does the same thing with the art for each track. It's not good. And yet, I forgive that too, because when the music gets going and the Kann slides into my pocket, none of this visual stuff matters one bit.
Astell & Kern is the luxury sub-brand of iRiver, a Korean company that's been making MP3 players since before the iPod even existed. It's a brand that has a flagship $2,999 PMP, the AK380, and an enthusiast audience that helps it sustain such products. The portable music player hasn't gone extinct precisely because of that enthusiast community, but this new Kann model from A&K signifies something new. It has much of the AK380 greatness, including the same AK4490 converter chip, but in a more integrated and affordable package. No, it's still not a device for everyone, and I'd struggle to recommend buying this if you're in need of more practical things like a new laptop or phone, but as an indulgence or a gift, I can't think of anything better. And hey, a dedicated music player is more justifiable today, with the headphone jack-deprived iPhone 7 and HTC U11, than it has been in many years.
More than anything, the Astell & Kern Kann is a piece of technology that makes people happy. You'll be amused by how its trapezoid shape overflows your grip, you'll be happy ratcheting up its volume dial, and you'll be downright delighted by the music it makes.
Magnificent, musical sound
Huge battery
Excellent build quality and durability
Flexible expandability and connectivity
Heavy and bulky
Laggy Android UI
Washed-out screen
Honda has been one of the more cautious automakers when it comes to self-driving cars, and a recent study put the company at 15th out of 18 in terms of overall advancement. At a media event this week, however, Honda shared more about its plans and set a target of 2025 for introducing vehicles with Level 4 autonomous driving capability.
Honda has already said that it intends to have vehicles capable of Level 3 freeway driving on the market by 2020, and is reiterating that goal today. Level 3, as defined by the Society of Automotive Engineers, refers to highly automated driving where the driver still needs to be able to take over the vehicle upon request. Level 4 automation means that the car is capable of handing most driving situations itself, whereas Level 5 is largely theoretical and covers complete automation in any condition.
“We are striving to provide our customers with a sense of confidence and trust by offering automated driving that will keep vehicles away from any dangerous situation and that will not make people around the vehicle feel unsafe,” Honda president and CEO Takahiro Hachigo told reporters.
Hachigo made his remarks while outlining a broader vision for the company over the next 13 years; he also said Honda plans for various forms of electric vehicle to account for two-thirds of the company’s sales by 2030. And from this fall onward, following the launch of the new N-Box, all new Honda vehicles sold in Japan will come with Honda Sensing driver-assist features as standard.
So, how close is Honda to achieving its more ambitious goals? Earlier this week, I “test-drove” two cars outfitted with prototype automation technology at the company’s R&D center in Utsunomiya, Japan.
The first drive tested automated freeway driving technology of the type Honda plans to introduce in 2020. I got into a Legend (Acura RLX in the US), drove from a parking lot onto a ramp and pressed an “auto” button on the steering wheel; the car then merged with the closed-track “freeway.” With my hands off the wheel and my feet off the pedal, the car accelerated to 100 kph (62 mph) to overtake a vehicle in the slow lane.
Later, in a simulated traffic jam, the car let me know that I was able to use the entertainment system mounted on the dashboard. A Skype video call then came in, which I answered with a button on the steering wheel, and I was disconnected once the traffic cleared up and the car started to accelerate beyond a crawl. The second time I took this demo, however, there seemed to be a glitch coming out of traffic and I had to drive myself the rest of the way back.
The next demo was for technology required to achieve Level 4 driving, and took place on regular single-lane streets around the R&D facility. While the Legend in the first demo was outfitted with advanced sensing technology, the car in the second demo ran on nothing but three conventional cameras. Honda is developing an AI system with supervised machine learning based on image data, and the company is in the process of bootstrapping, or feeding it a large set of data to learn from.
That makes it hard to judge the effectiveness of the AI system on a course that has presumably been run hundreds of times before. But in the back seat, there was a monitor that provided real-time analysis of what the car was “seeing,” and it was clear that the system could accurately detect things like the edges of roads even when they weren’t clearly marked. The car drove around for several minutes, stopping at crossings and letting other vehicles pass without any human intervention.
It’s early days for this technology, however, and several automakers appear to be ahead of Honda in their development of self-driving cars. “We are not trying to catch up with others but we are trying to achieve something unique to us,” Hachigo told reporters. “One approach is we are going to evolve our Honda Sensing technology to firmly establish automated driving. We are also discussing the possibility of joint R&D activities with Waymo, and that will be a separate technology from Honda Sensing. So in that regard, we have our strategy — we’re not just catching up, we are a leader.”
The partnership with Waymo, the Alphabet self-driving car unit that was spun out of Google X, was announced back in December with little in the way of detail. And Honda isn’t quite able to answer how its own homegrown AI technology will coexist with Waymo’s. “What we’re trying to do with Waymo is make Level 4 a reality,” Hachigo says. “Honda and Waymo have just started discussion of what we can do together in terms of research and development work, so nothing has been decided yet.”
But it’s notable that Honda is talking to Waymo at all about these things, and today’s statement of intent to reach Level 4 by 2025 shows the company doesn’t want to get left behind. The biggest question, as ever when the worlds of technology and transportation collide, is what it can bring to the table itself and what it may be better off leaving to partners.
Apple unveiled iOS 11 during its Worldwide Developers Conference this week, and while it might not feature an overhauled Messages app like last year, the company’s smaller but iterative changes add functionality that some users might have always wanted. Do Not Disturb While Driving, for example, mutes notifications when your iPhone thinks you’re moving. It’ll auto-reply to your texts, too, which is a welcome feature after other companies, like Samsung, introduced a similar product. The whole App Store is undergoing a redesign, as well, so that’s cool.
We compiled a couple lists of all the features we learned from the WWDC keynote, and now we’re narrowing them down to the things that we’re most excited about. These are the six best new features coming with iOS 11.
This could be huge. Users can pay someone via an iMessage or tell Siri to pay someone by using a credit or debit card that’s stored in their Wallet. Once they’re paid, this money goes into an Apple Pay Cash account and can be sent to other people or used to buy something in stores through Apple Pay. It can also be transferred to a bank account.
Now, your friends have to be on iOS for this to work, so it doesn’t have the exact appeal of Venmo or Square Cash, but still, the idea of sending money through Messages instead of a third-party app is appealing. I imagine some people likely won’t switch, simply because they’ve already set up a solid network on Venmo and have a workflow. For those who haven’t, or don’t like the social network part of that service, this is a nice opportunity to try something else.
Siri will be able to translate English words and phrases into Chinese, French, German, Italian, or Spanish. Apple demoed this functionality during its keynote. Google Assistant already does this, so while Apple’s playing catch-up with this feature, it’s still nice to have. We don’t know how well it works, but the idea of going to China and having Siri translate a phrase for me is great, especially if I don’t have to navigate to the Google Assistant app and can instead access Siri straight from my home button.
iOS 11 will launch with the option to automatically delete apps you never use through a feature called Offload Unused Apps. Basically when you’re running low on storage, the feature will get rid of apps you infrequently use while retaining related documents and data so you can always get the app back. A tap on the app’s grayed-out icon will restore it. Owners of 16GB iPhones can celebrate this, although if you’re using a ton of apps, I’m not sure how much it’ll really help storage issues.
The new Control Center is getting a lot of flack for how overwhelming it could potentially look, but I’m psyched to have everything in one place. You can customize the control screen to your needs, like having an Apple TV widget or stopwatch access. This is slightly reminiscent of Android, and will probably be useful so long as you don’t go too crazy with shortcuts and basically turn it into a second home screen.
control center is likeTHIS ISNT EVEN MY FINAL FORM pic.twitter.com/MlWqf0YIxv
The iPad is going to act a lot more like a Mac. With iOS 11, we’ll be able to customize our docks with apps we use most frequently. Plus, we can multitask with up to three apps running at once, side by side. A new Files app will also let users store data locally and access it straight from the device, just like a Mac. The Verge’s Vlad Savov pointed out this week that the iPad is increasingly becoming a device that could replace a computer. This is welcome news, especially for people who might be using their iPad at work.
Apple didn’t even mention that iOS 11 would allow for easy screen capturing during WWDC, but developers messing around with the beta release gave us a peek. You’ll be able to screen record right from the new Control Center to capture whatever you do. Share away.

As you may or may not be aware, the British people are heading to polling stations today to vote on who will govern them for the next few years. It’s an important day for me, as a European living and working in a country that’s decided to decouple itself from the European Union, but it’s also deeply fascinating from a professional perspective because of what it illustrates about the internet’s growing influence on everyday life. The way British people vote today will be influenced, in large or in small part, by the actions and decisions of people many miles outside of the UK: those Silicon Valley executives in charge of Google and Facebook’s massive online empires.
On the surface, neither Facebook nor Google has been politically active in this campaign. Both companies are intensely conscious to maintain an apolitical front and cooperate with whoever is in government — as was amply demonstrated when they sent senior envoys to Donald Trump’s tech executive roundtable. But look at the effect of Google and Facebook’s actions and omissions, and you’ll see a distinct political dimension, whether it’s deemed intentional or not.
When Facebook puts out a UK-wide reminder about the election to its members, and when Google promotes a #PowerToDecide YouTube compilation that encourages young Brits to get out and exercise their democratic right, both of these actions appear to be in the service of enhancing and strengthening democracy. And they are. But consider that younger people in the UK skew heavily to the left, and the more of them that actually turn out and make the effort to vote, the more likely it is that the Labour party will secure an unlikely majority and take control of the UK’s legislative and executive branches of government. Nudging the youth of Britain out of political apathy is effectively a Labour-favoring move.
The UK version of Google.com today leads, appropriately, to a ‘uk general election 2017’, surfacing the latest news coverage of the polling and pointing toward some live blogs from the likes of the Guardian and The Mirror. Again, all quite appropriate. But higher voter turnout in the election, which this Google Doodle stimulates, is another Labour-favoring effect. If you doubt me on this matter, check out this Channel 4 FactCheck analysis of whether or not rain on election day swings the votes one way or another — it notes that right-wing voters tend to be firm in their beliefs and consistent in their turnout, whereas lefties are a bit more susceptible to a "last straw" effect where it wouldn’t take too much to get them to skip voting altogether.
Put yourself in the shoes of a young voter, full of youthful idealism — which political leaders like the United States’ Bernie Sanders and the United Kingdom’s Jeremy Corbyn embody — but lacking the conviction that your vote will count. What if your favorite YouTuber suddenly surfaced on your screen imploring you to go discharge your democratic duty after finishing off your Shreddies? Wouldn’t you do that for them? Of course you’d brave a bit of rain and a short walk just to know you were on the same page as the person you admire.
But beyond Google and Facebook’s well-meaning efforts to get out the vote, there are plenty of other ways in which these two internet giants can affect an election.
In Facebook’s case, we’ve seen masses of coverage regarding the proliferation of fake news about the 2016 US election in its news streams, which is believed to have been fuelled by Russian propaganda trolls. Facebook’s algorithms fanned the most inflammatory disinformation around the world, because they’re more concerned with serving something pertinent to a person’s interests and beliefs than something verifiably factual. Many of its users would then repost those maliciously false stories, failing to check the source of the allegation in the midst of their outrage.
As to Google, the company that relies on algorithms more than any other, even a small tweak in its selection filters could skew the tenor of information that people see about an election. If Google’s idea of minimizing bias is to expose every side of a debate — even unmeritorious ones like, say, Kyrie Irving’s argument that the Earth is flat — its users will see one set of news results relating to an election. Alternatively, if Google prioritizes the most factual reporting, it’s likely to ignore such spurious claims and give a distinctly more scientific flavor to its search and news results. These choices might ultimately be executed by an algorithm, but there’s still a human at the controls.
Vote for the many, not the few. #DavidGilmour @jeremycorbyn pic.twitter.com/NEronBWeVb
And even beyond the two giants, there are things like Twitter’s (mostly irritating) In Case You Missed It module, which this morning served up the above pretty little tune from Pink Floyd lead guitarist David Gilmour. It’s your parents’ version of a YouTube influencer invading their timeline and saying, in no uncertain terms, that voting Labour would be the cool thing to do. And, let’s face it, parents want to be cool even more than their kids.
The thing that worries me about this present situation is that it’s only ramping up, and we don’t seem to be especially bothered by it. Anything that isn’t on Facebook these days is definitely indexed by Google or served up on its incredibly influential TV replacement, YouTube. In past elections, TV airtime was the most valuable currency for any politician, and the role of the newscaster was sacrosanct (the most trusted person in America was once Walter Cronkite). Now people get their news from the same place that they share cat GIFs. In the future, the hot property will be Facebook screen space and YouTube exposure. And while Google and Facebook, as they are currently constituted, keep making decisions that broadly agree with a liberal and scientific perspective, what their stranglehold on our attention will mean for the proper functioning of democracies is subject to debate. I think it’s time we had that debate.
If you haven’t used a Seaboard before, it’s hard to get all the adjectives straight. It’s a keyboard, but instead of being comprised of separate keys, it’s all one continuous, multitouch, pressure-sensitive, squishy (but not too squishy) surface with ridges where the piano keys should be. My colleague James Vincent spent 1,200 words describing the $799 Seaboard Rise back in 2015, so I won’t rehash all that here. Just know that Roli’s Seaboard technology is multi-dimensionally expressive, a little hard to learn, and now available in a much more portable and affordable form factor: the $299 Seaboard Block.
The new Seaboard Block works with Roli’s Blocks system, which lets you mix and match components and connect them wirelessly to Roli’s companion mobile app, Noise. For instance, if Seaboard Block’s 24 keys aren’t enough, you can snap in a second or third Seaboard Block, and they’ll work as one continuous keyboard. You can add a Lightpad Block to get a Seaboard-esque drumpad, or one of the smaller control blocks Roli offers to tweak Seaboard settings on the fly or trigger loops. My favorite part of the Blocks system is that it centers around a free app that has all of these features built-in — now including a virtual Seaboard as well — and the hardware just makes the controls more accessible, expressive, and tactile.
All the blocks, including the new Seaboard, also work over USB or Bluetooth as standard MIDI devices, and the Seaboard Block comes with a version of Roli’s own desktop software for fine-tuned adjustments of how the board plays.
The Seaboard Block will be available later this month.
Amazon has killed off its generous unlimited cloud storage deal for Amazon Drive. Previously, customers could store as much data as they liked on Amazon’s servers for just $60 a year (or $12 a year for just unlimited photos). Now, the company offers just two tiers: store up to 100GB for $11.99 a year, or up to 1TB for $60. It costs an extra $60 a year for each terabyte on top of this, with a top limit of 30 terabytes.
The changes kick in today, although anyone already signed up for unlimited storage will keep the offer until it expires. If they have auto-renew turned on, they’ll be automatically changed to the $60 / year plan when their first year ends. Some good news: anyone signed up for Amazon Prime will still get unlimited photo storage as part of their membership, and anyone who signs up for Amazon Drive will also get 5GB for free.
Killing off unlimited storage isn’t a surprising move from Amazon. The company introduced the deal back in 2015 as part of a campaign against rival cloud services like Dropbox and Google Drive. But these sorts of offers are only really good for getting customers in the door — they’re not sustainable. Microsoft went through a similar process with unlimited OneDrive storage: introducing it in October 2014 for Office 365 subscribers, then reducing it to a 1TB limit in November 2015.
Amazon says users taking advantage of the unlimited storage deal who don’t want to start paying for one of the new plans will have 180 days to download or delete their data. After that grace period, Amazon will start deleting content for them (starting with most recent uploads) until the account falls within the new limits.
Microsoft has trademarked “DirectReality” ahead of its E3 press event on Sunday, with some hints that this mysterious service might involve holographic apps. The software giant describes DirectReality as “online computer software for holographic applications” and software as a service. DirectReality is also related to gaming, and the trademark filing was spotted by Gamespot just days after Microsoft trademarked a mysterious S logo ahead of its Xbox Project Scorpio unveiling.
DirectReality sounds like another version of Microsoft’s Mixed Reality marketing, but it’s not likely related. Although the filing could be for something that never makes it to market, the structure of the trademark indicates Microsoft will be naming this DirectReality rather than Direct Reality. Microsoft has filed for a single word mark, and the DirectReality filing appears alongside a similar Windows HomeLoop software as a service trademark. The naming could hint that DirectReality is related to Microsoft's DirectX gaming APIs.
None of this provides many answers, but Microsoft has indicated it won’t be showing off any Xbox VR headsets at E3 this year. That doesn’t rule out new MixedReality software, or even a demonstration of HoloLens at E3. Microsoft has been teasing its Xbox Project Scorpio console with hidden messages this week, and the company plans to unveil the final design on Sunday at 2PM PT / 5PM ET.
If Amazon and Google have their way and quadcopters become as commonplace as delivery vehicles, it could lead to some very busy skies. To manage this problem, a number of companies and institutions are working on air traffic control systems for drones — including Alphabet subsidiary Project Wing.
In a Medium post published yesterday, Project Wing’s co-lead James Burgess revealed that the company has deployed a prototype drone control system in a series of tests organized by NASA and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The software uses a number of Google systems for support (Google Maps helped created “a detailed understanding of the world” and the company’s cloud service provide processing power) and was able to successfully manage “the complex flight paths of multiple UAS [unmanned aircraft systems] at the same time,” adjusting routes on the fly to avoid midair collisions.
“This is an important step that paves the way to a future where many UAS operators can fly safely together,” wrote Burgess. “It also makes it possible for a single operator — a person or organization —  to fly multiple aircraft simultaneously.”
The company predicts that in a few years’ time, Wing and other firms will have fleets of drones numbering in their thousands. However, these initial tests were very limited in comparison — organizing an aerial ballet using just three Wing drones, two from Intel, and one from DJI. The Wing aircraft were tasked with picking up and delivering packages, while the other three were performing “automated search and rescue missions.”
Drone air traffic control is still in its infancy, and there’s a lot of work needed to be done before these systems will be robust enough to work with hundreds of aircraft. But this is a promising step forward — and could end up being a lucrative venture for Google itself.
Logitech has two new sets of gaming headphones, the G433 and G233, that are designed to work just as well for playing Call of Duty as they are for playing the latest Lorde song on the go. The G223 is the cheaper of the two models, coming in a single black-and-cyan color scheme at $79.99. The G433 offers virtual surround sound in the form of DTS Headphone X 7.1 technology, with a slightly higher price tag of $99.99.
Additionally, the G433 has a “hydrophobic, stain-resistant fabric finish” that is available in Royal Blue, Fire Red, and Triple Black. There’s also a Best Buy-exclusive Camo Blue model, which should be perfect for all the times you’re on a stealthy underwater mission and don’t want your headphones to give away your position.
Both the G433 and the G233 feature Logitech’s own Pro-G drivers, and offer a removable boom microphone for when you’d like to talk to and / or trash talk your fellow players. Both headphones should be compatible with PCs, consoles, and mobile devices, and they’re available now.
Apple’s newest ad features an array of short clips, shot on iPhone by regular users, underscored by the calming voice of astronomer Carl Sagan. The crisp and clear clips — of forests, beaches, and mountains, of insects and birds — serve to advertise the smartphone’s camera, certainly, but the choice of natural imagery and Carl Sagan’s voiceover feel like a pointed message in the wake Donald Trump’s decision to back out of the Paris environmental agreement.
The fact we only have one livable planet “underscores our responsibility to deal more kindly with one another, and to preserve, and cherish, the only home we’ve ever known,” Sagan says, an excerpt from his classic Pale Blue Dot. “There is nowhere else, at least in the near future, to where our species could migrate.” They’re words that scientists would say should be remembered as the United States’ government backs out on promises to battle climate change.
Apple CEO Tim Cook has said as much, criticizing Donald Trump’s decision both in public and private. Cook reportedly called the White House in a bid to urge the president not to back out of the Paris deal. When his pleas fell on deaf ears, Cook made statements both to his employees, and to the public in an interview with Bloomberg, saying that Trump should have stayed with the deal.
Apple’s debut video series, Planet of the Apps, is a showcase for entrepreneurs hoping to raise money for their startups, aided by a quartet of celebrity coaches. Each week, we’ll consider the things they do right — and the things they should have done much, much differently.
The debut episode of Planet of the Apps plays more or less as promised — a tech-focused Shark Tank spliced with elements of The Voice. Over the course of 49 minutes, we dive deep with the founders behind two companies and follow them from their first pitch to a meeting with an honest-to-goodness venture capital firm. Guiding them along the way are celebrity judges Jessica Alba, Gwyneth Paltrow, Will.i.am, and entrepreneur Gary Vaynerchuk.
Along the way, we get brief glimpses of less promising companies, including the founders of a memorably confusing app that displays dating profiles for people going to events. Alba and Paltrow rightly identify the app as a magnet for creeps, and Will.i.am is having none of what the founders are selling. (“I have sisters. I don’t want my sister and my cousin Mimi, who is hot, who looks like Beyoncé, to have any more pressure than she already has going to the club with a bunch of hawks and vultures swarming around.”)
Every startup chosen to appear on the show gets a 60-second “escalator pitch” in which they describe their company to the celebrities as they descend. (This is by far the show’s most gimmicky element, but I enjoyed the visual metaphor of idealistic young founders descending to level of reality TV.) If at least one celebrity wants to hear more, the startup gets to make a more complete pitch. At that point, any of the coaches can either back out or offer to help, The Voice-style.
The coach then offers in-person mentoring to the founders in an effort to help them hone their pitch — although in the first episode, coaches Alba and Vaynerchuk spend most of their time looking like they regret ever offering their assistance. Alba persuades the founder she’s working with, who makes an augmented reality interior design app called Pair, to change his business model, which flops with investors. Vaynerchuk comes across as the most savvy of the judges, if perpetually on the brink of an aneurysm. But he knows where to poke holes in the lies founders tell themselves, and he offers the most practical advice of anyone in the pilot.
As the episode concludes, the founders meet with partners from Lightspeed Ventures; its investments include Snap, GIPHY, and Nest. If the partners like what they see, they invest — at an unannounced valuation or percentage of ownership — and the founders cry out in ecstasy and embrace everyone on the stage as the credits roll.
For all its Hollywood credentials, Planet of the Apps comes across as surprisingly low-rent. It unfolds with minimal visual flair, and many basic questions about the show go unanswered. How many developers applied to be a part of the show? How many were chosen? Will we ever see the winners again? Will cousin Mimi make an appearance?
Here are some startup lessons from the episode one of Planet of the Apps.
DO: Have a plausible growth strategy. Companion, a personal-safety app from recent college graduates Lexie Ernst and Jake Wayne, leverages your friend network to keep your safe while you’re traveling home. What gets Lightspeed excited about the app is that Companion suggests you invite at least three friends to keep track of you on your way home — and one of those friends, on average, becomes an active Companion user. Good!
DON’T: Change your business model because Jessica Alba tells you to. Pair’s Andrew Kemendo arrives on Planet with an e-commerce app. Use your phone to virtually place furniture and other decorations in your home, and then buy them through the app. By the time Alba is done with him, he’s pitching VCs on building an indoor 3D map of the world, which he will then monetize… somehow. No one is convinced, and he leaves without a check.
DON’T: Pitch just one VC firm. One of the weirder elements of Planet is that founders only get to pitch a single firm, at least on the show. Different investors have different strengths, and it’s odd to have founders’ fates all hinge on whether their app is good for the Lightspeed portfolio. One reason Shark Tank works is that its judges have a diverse set of skills; on Planet the adults are either famous people or partners at one consumer-focused VC firm. Other founders — and the show — would be wise to mix it up.
DO: Take Gary Vaynerchuk with a grain of salt. Vaynerchuk spends most of the episode in a lather that Google has introduced Trusted Contacts, a feature similar to the Companion app that he has just agreed to advise. “This is a straight-up atomic bomb to their business,” he says. It is then revealed that Companion was already testing a premium version of its service that goes far beyond Google’s, and Lightspeed invests $1 million. Some atomic bomb!
We invite you to join us next week for further lessons from Planet of the Apps.

Archaeologists have unearthed 300,000-year-old fossilized bones of early humans — the oldest remains of Homo sapiens yet discovered, two new studies report. The ancient bones contain a mix of modern and primitive features that hint at an early, and previously unknown, phase of our species’s evolution.
On the family tree of human relatives, collectively known as hominins, our ancestors split from the Neanderthal branch more than 500,000 years ago. Fossils that looked like modern humans started showing up in East Africa about 200,000 years ago. But when exactly modern humans evolved from our most recent ancestor, probably Homo heidelbergensis, is a mystery. Now, two new studies published today in the journal Nature fill in some of those missing millennia, and suggest that hominins were well on their way to looking like modern-day humans about 300,000 years ago.
The fossils come from an archaeological site in Morocco, called Jebel Irhoud. Hominin bones were first pulled out of the ground there in the 1960s, and were dated to about 40,000 years ago. But the archaeologists were sloppy, and experts began to suspect that date was very wrong. So, in 2004, the site reopened and over the next seven years, archaeologists unearthed more hominin remains, including parts of skulls and jaw bones. They also found animal bones that had been butchered and possibly cooked, and stone tools that had been burned at some point — all in the same layer of dirt. That’s key: being in the same layer means these finds were all approximately the same age.
The stone tools were a lucky find, because they gave the researchers — led by Jean-Jacques Hublin and Shannon McPherron at the Max Planck Institute in Germany — a chance to date that layer precisely. By measuring how many electrons accumulated in the tools over millennia, the researchers dated the layer and the hominin bones within it to about 315,000 years ago.
From the skull fragments, the researchers virtually reconstructed the faces of the ancient humans who had once lived at the site. Their features were small, and their faces were tucked underneath the brain case, rather than jutting out in front. “The face is the face of somebody you could cross in the metro,” Hublin told Michael Greshko in National Geographic. But the brain case was more primitive — flatter and longer instead of high and round, like ours. That’s why Hublin and his colleagues think the ancient denizens of Jebel Irhoud were an early evolutionary phase of Homo sapiens — somewhere on the developmental path between Homo heidelbergensis and us.
The two authors of an analysis published alongside the study agree with this assessment. But, the findings haven’t been met with universal approval. Paleoanthropologist John Hawks at the University of Wisconsin-Madison told Greshko that these new studies “really aren’t adding anything new except the date.” Hawks added that he doesn’t think the findings warrant creating a new category of “early modern humans” to describe the mix of primitive and modern traits. But regardless of what we call these ancient relatives of ours, these new findings give us a better idea of how we became who we are today.
Apple dabbled in making clothing once upon a time. From the mid-‘80s through the early ‘90s, the brand catered to their fandom with the most exquisitely time-frozen clothing and accessories, in campaigns full of oversized sweatshirts, popped collars, and a whiff of American Psycho. One of the most coveted items Apple produced during this time was a pair of branded sneakers, which Heritage Auctions is planning to list on eBay on June 11th with a cool starting price of $15,000.
The white vintage sneakers feature the rainbow Apple logo and are especially rare as they never left the prototype stage and were only given to employees. The apparent mint (or near-mint) quality of this particular pair, then, squarely puts these sneakers in unicorn territory.
There are always brand loyalists who will bite at anything Apple-related, but considering the ‘90s are currently having a major fashion moment — Gap, for example, recently revived its classic ‘90s collection — it seems like an apropos time to test the (very expensive) waters.
Heritage Auctions says the estimated value of the kicks are actually $30,000 but really, they’re worth what someone will pay for them. There’s a good chance the auction will reach that threshold, though, as Apple memorabilia is infamous for being costly. Last year, another private vendor sold a leather jacket Steve Jobs wore for $22,000. No big deal.
To celebrate the 31st anniversary of Ferris Bueller’s Day Off (a very important anniversary, needless to say), Domino’s will be streaming the movie for free on its Facebook page on Sunday, June 11th at 7PM ET.
Variety reports that the showing will be part of a series of “Facebook Live Movie Nights” on the pizza chain’s page, and also explains how pizza will play into the event: there will be pizza discount codes available to viewers. According to Domino’s, the “more people who watch, the higher the discount could be.” Okay, so even if you have Ferris on DVD and no interest in pizza you can tune in to help someone else get a better pizza discount, if you’re in a low-effort altruism mood on Sunday evening.
Domino’s is pretty well known for its tech hobby, so it was probably only a matter of time until it made its way to Facebook Live. Whoever is the ideas guy or gal over there really loves churning out innovative new pizza-tech pairings, such as ordering a pizza with an emoji, ordering a pizza with an Amazon Echo, ordering a pizza with your car, ordering a pizza with your Samsung Smart TV, ordering a pizza with an app just by opening it and clicking nothing. (Most of the ideas involve pizza ordering.)
In some countries, Domino’s also has robots. Unfortunately Papa John’s did beat Domino’s to the idea of ordering a pizza with an Apple TV app. And Pizza Hut beat it to the idea of ordering a pizza with a Facebook Messenger chatbot. The pizza tech wars are ongoing, and though Domino’s is still firmly in the lead, it clearly has a target on its back.
Hence: Ferris, a guy with a target on his back, who comes up unscathed over and over.
When Austin-based filmmaker Lex Lybrand set out to make a movie about patent trolls, people who abuse the legal system by weaponizing intellectual property rights, he wanted to focus on Texas, not Silicon Valley. Still, he’s gotten tangled up with the other Silicon Valley — the satirical HBO comedy about the California tech hub. Lybrand says a writer for the show stole elements of his film, including key lines of dialogue, scenes, and overarching plot elements.
With help from an Austin intellectual-property firm, Lybrand is now trying to set the record straight. First, it helps to understand why an indie movie set in Texas and built around intellectual-property abuse, would potentially catch the eye of a team of Los Angeles-based TV writers. For one, tech companies are often the target of these patent trolls, who use overly broad patents to milk settlement money from large companies with deep pockets. For Lybrand, who wanted to make a film set in and centered on his home state, this arcane legal controversy happened to be perfect fuel for a tiny movie with a David vs. Goliath setup.
The Texas setting has a strong real-world basis, too. Federal courts in eastern Texas have become infamous over the last decade for being home to an outsized number of patent-infringement cases. That happened because the area’s court system is especially friendly to plaintiffs — in the small Eastern District town of Marshall, Judge Rodney Gilstrap oversaw more than a quarter of the country’s patent cases in 2015, reports the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
According to Vice, he and a group of other sympatico Texas judges have helped transform the Eastern District into a patent troll haven, through a mix of inadvertent courtroom rule changes to speed up cases, and a not-so-subtle desire to reap the benefits of a lucrative legal cottage industry. Hotels in Marshall are so commonly frequented by lawyers that one hotel even purchased a subscription to the electronic court-records system PACER, to better sell rooms to patent-case workers. (This is all set to change following a landmark Supreme Court decision last month that’s changing the rules on where patent litigation takes place.)
Because of Texas’ patent troll notoriety, Lybrand’s film, The Trolls, received partial funding from an Austin IP firm called Cesari & Reed, LLP, with additional support from a crowdfunding campaign on Indiegogo. Lybrand says the firm wanted to highlight the legal abuses in an effort to bring more attention to the issue.
Like The Trolls, the most recent episode of HBO’s Silicon Valley, from creators Mike Judge and Alec Berg, focused entirely on patent trolls, and the ways they extort both big companies and small startups using broad ownership of a vague idea. In the episode, fictional Pied Piper CEO Richard Hendriks is targeted by a former attorney who claims he owns the patent to a technology covering the "storage of media files on a network,” forcing a number of defensive maneuvers from Pied Piper to avoid the $20,000 settlement fee.
Lybrand says the show’s script lifted a handful of scenes and plot elements straight from his movie. He even cut together a side-by-side comparison that illustrates how the sequences of his film, with a runtime of 93 minutes, were condensed into a 30-minute episode of television, down to putting a Chevy Volt in the parking lot of the patent troll’s modest home office:
Every moment from this week's @SiliconHBO lifted from my film, @TrollsTheMovie  (2015). Did I miss any? #fixpatents @dailydot @DigitalTrends pic.twitter.com/X797vf12n6
“I watch the show pretty regularly, so I had seen part of the ‘next week on Silicon Valley' teaser at some point during the week,” he says. “So, I knew they were doing something with patent trolls. I didn't know how specifically related to my film it was until I watched it on Monday night.”
Perhaps the most egregious offense, Lybrand says, is the line, “You trolled the trolls,” delivered by Silicon Valley’s Zach Woods. That’s effectively the tagline of Lybrand’s film, and the line is repeated in one form or another multiple times in his movie. “This type of plagiarism is definitely illegal. Trademark or copyright infringement, for sure… and I'm still not sure if it counts as irony.” Lybrand adds that he’d like to seek a writing credit on the episode, as well as residuals. “But please, for the love of God, also tell me if this counts as irony.”
When reached for comment, HBO issued this statement to The Verge: “We are confident that the episode is the original work of the writers of Silicon Valley.” The episode’s sole credited writer, comedian Andrew Law, did not respond to a request for comment. His IMDb page lists a number of writing and acting credits, most prominently Late Night with Seth Meyers. Law has never written for Silicon Valley before, but Lybrand says he’s tangentially connected to The Trolls. “He's good friends with an ex of one of the actresses,” he says.
As for how a small indie film could have caught the eye of an HBO writer, Lybrand has a few potential answers. The Trolls didn’t make it into SXSW last year, despite the best efforts of Lybrand and his production crew. It did, however, make the rounds online. “It's an indie film, but it wasn't completely invisible,” Lybrand says. “We played festivals across the country, including one at a comedy festival in New York, where the credited writer lives.” Lybrand did a televised interview on CNBC with comedian Adam Carolla, who’s made headlines in the past for fighting a patent troll over podcast distribution. The Trolls has also been available via video-on-demand on Amazon Prime since October 2016.
Lybrand is considering his next steps, including potential legal action. It helps, of course, that he’s now good friends with people at the Austin law firm that helped fund his movie. “Having them on my side in this case is a huge plus. I don't have to worry about the whole ‘good luck going up against HBO and their lawyers’ –– I have a literal team of lawyers on my side,” he says. “I know their argument will probably be ‘this is some indie flick nobody has ever heard of’ –– but that's not the case with this one. Not this time.”

Amazon’s website seems to be having issues with its product pages: across the online store, pages are failing to load. Users are instead presented with a 503 error, and one of several adorable dogs, in what is an incredibly rare outage for the online retailer.
Given Amazon’s prominence in supplying web servers for huge swaths of the internet that can be disastrous when they fail, outages on its own site are kind of significant, especially given that the site is essentially losing money in missed sales every second it’s down.
According to the website Down Detector, the outages seem to be affecting large swaths of the Northeast and West Coast of America, many of them completely unable to access any product pages or complete orders.
I’ve never seen Amazon do this before. It feels like finding a Google search with only one a single returned result. pic.twitter.com/iHYqE54Px4
We’ve reached out to Amazon for more information on the outage, and will continue to update this post with more information.
Update June 7th, 4:50PM: Amazon’s site seems to be largely back up and running again.
Today, NASA added 12 new astronauts to its corps, which now boasts 56 active members who can be assigned to upcoming spaceflight missions. The new class is made up of five women and seven men of various backgrounds — ranging from Air Force commanders to a ocean research engineer. One is even a former SpaceX engineer.
The new class was announced this afternoon at a special event at NASA’s Johnson Space Center in Houston. In attendance were numerous Texas representatives as well as Vice President Mike Pence, who gave a speech about the future of the space agency. Pence didn’t mention too many specifics but did say that President Trump is “firmly committed” to NASA’s mission in space and that “America will lead the way in space once again.”
Pence also reconfirmed that he will head up the soon-to-be-resurrected National Space Council — an executive group aimed at guiding US space policy. The council used to exist in the ‘60s and ‘70s, and was in effect during George H.W. Bush’s administration, but it was disbanded in 1993. Pence actually confirmed in March that Trump intended to relaunch the council and apparently there is already an executive order drafted to create the group, Space News reported. However, it’s unclear when the council will be officially formed.
Additionally, Pence noted that NASA would continue to have the resources it needs to “make history” — even though the president’s budget request cuts funding and cancels certain programs at the agency. And he mentioned that NASA would continue to collaborate with the commercial space industry in the future. As for the rest of his speech, Pence touted the merits of the new astronaut class. “The courage of these men and women, and all the astronauts who have gone before, inspires me to this very day,” he said.
And certainly, the new astronauts are very inspiring. This group was selected from a record 18,300 applicants — more than NASA has ever had during an open astronaut call. To get picked, people have to meet some physical requirements as well as certain education and experience criteria — such as having a bachelor’s degree in a STEM field or accumulating up to 1,000 hours of piloting jets. But it’s clear that this new class greatly surpasses all the minimum skills that NASA requires.
To learn more about the 12 new hires, check out NASA’s site, which has detailed biographies of each astronaut.
Facebook today announced three new features that will make its service far more useful to elected officials, according to TechCrunch. The primary goal is to help politicians better connect with constituents in their designated district. But at a deeper level, Facebook is making it easier than ever before for these officials to gain insight into the thoughts and behaviors driving their communities, transforming the social network into a data gold mine for predicting voter behavior and all sorts of other valuable political findings.
These new tools are an expansion of the company’s existing Town Hall feature. Town Hall, first introduced in March, is a way for users to better connect with and reach out to local representatives via Facebook. It’s all part of a broader effort to help make Facebook a tool for improving civic discourse, as per CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s revised manifesto released in February.
Now, instead of seeing names and faces of potential constituents, elected officials can see a special badge that designates a Facebook user as someone who lives in their district. This is an opt-in feature that will let you be identified by which district you live in, based on the address only you provide. Facebook says it will cut down on people pretending to be in a district they don’t belong in by limiting the number of times you can change your address in Town Hall, as well wiping constituent badges from past posts if you do happen to change your address.
Another new tool for elected officials comes in the form of the Page Insights feature that will let those politicians discover which news stories are popular in their district. This will let an official, or a Page administrator for that politician, get a drop-down list of news stories, which can then be linked in a post on the page alongside a personal stance on the issue at hand. This latter tool will be coupled with a third new feature called Direct Targeting. This will let an elected official send out a post or poll to only those living in their district.
All of these combined together provide a very powerful toolset for politicians to begin engaging more deeply with those they represent, and learning from them as well. However, it all depends on whether Facebook users opt-in to these features and start using Town Hall earnestly. That remains to be seen, but adding these types of features can only strengthen Facebook’s role as a place for meaningful political discussion, and not just a place to get rant angrily at random acquaintances and family members with whom you disagree.
DirecTV Now will exclusively work in Google Chrome starting in July, ditching support for Safari and Internet Explorer in favor of Google’s browser, per a report from AppleInsider.
The news was announced in the form of a notification greeting users when they logged into the over-the-top streaming service. It informs users that DirecTV Now will only be supporting Chrome and the various mobile and TV apps for the service going forward, offering a link to download Google Chrome.
While the removal of additional browser options isn’t exactly great, the news isn’t super surprising. DirecTV Now’s support page already recommends Chrome for online streaming, so the move to only supporting Chrome does make some sense.
Per the notice, users will have until the end of June to make the switch, although AT&T has yet to formally announce the change outside of the notification to users, so it’s possible that things could change between now and July.
Flourish Klink and Elizabeth Minkel, co-hosts of the fandom podcast Fansplaining, recently conducted the loosest of academic studies, all about literature’s most controversial genre. Their survey — nine multiple choice questions, one longform response — has the herculean goal of defining “fan fiction.”
Fanlore, the wiki of record for all things fandom, says fan fiction must be “a work of fiction written by fans for other fans, taking a source text or a famous person as a point of departure.” But that’s just one definition, and bits of it are controversial. Hence the survey.
With 3,564 responses to their survey, Klink and Minkel have an enormous data set, which they’ve made public for anyone who’s curious and wants to poke around. Klink has also published an essay exploring the survey’s broadest findings on Medium, drawing up two basic schools of thought. On one side, respondents were interested in a “formal” definition of fan fiction, with 88 percent emphasizing that it must be a derivative work. On the other, respondents were more interested in a “context” definition of fan fiction, delineating what is and isn’t fan fiction based on who it is written for and by.
The people who took the survey agreed on almost nothing — whether fan fiction must be written by someone other than the original author of the original work, whether fan fiction can be based on real people, whether it can be for profit — and when you’re done sifting through the findings, you’ll likely be left with more questions than you had before you started. But it’s still a fascinating heap of information, full of as many insights about what people get out of fan fiction as it is hints about how the genre is coming to be defined. The definition of fan fiction has, of course, already been crowdsourced — it’s been in the process of being crowdsourced ever since it became a thing. Trying to put that to paper is a gargantuan task, even when trimmed down to a few thousand voices.
To get a better sense of what research like this could be used for, I talked to Klink about the process, her favorite insights, and all the ways the label “fan fiction” can be used.
This interview has been edited for clarity and length.
What’s your background in fandom? Why did you decide to do this research?
I started off as a fan, running a major Harry Potter fan-fic website, and through that met this guy Henry Jenkins who’s one of the founders of fan studies. I did grad school with him. And then Fansplaining is a podcast that the journalist Elizabeth Minkel and I have been doing for almost two years now. We have two episodes every month and they’re an hour each, and we talk to fans and people who work in the entertainment industry.
Before this, we ran another survey that was about people’s favorite tropes in fan fiction. That was a shorter survey, and it was taken by about 10,000 people. And through that we got a lot of attention from folks. Fandom really loves taking surveys and hearing about themselves. So when we did this one all we had to do was say, “Hey, here we are, we’re doing this survey.”
Please be clear on this, this is not a scientific survey or anything. Honestly, it’s just for fun. I say this as a serious researcher: this is not actual research that I would rely on  for anything but it can help us to get a baseline idea. If I really wanted to do this for real, it would have to be promoted in different ways and we would have to make sure that it was representative and well-designed.
This research is just something you do in your free time, it’s not funded or anything?
Absolutely not funded. This is a podcast that we make for fun. We have a Patreon. Our Patreon supporters, generally speaking, donate a dollar a month. It doesn’t cover our costs.
What kinds of spaces were you promoting the survey in? 83 percent of the respondents were women, which didn’t surprise me, but the age range was very diverse.
[For the podcast], we try to reach out to really diverse groups of people in terms of age, race, and what kind of a fan they are. For instance, we’ve had people talking about baseball fandom, music fandom, and, of course, a lot of people from fan-fic fandom. So, the idea is just to broadly talk about topics that relate to fans. Because we talk to so many different people from so many different corners of fandom, that’s probably where that diversity you’re thinking of comes from.
When we were promoting this, one thing we were really excited about was that some people on classic science fiction and fantasy fandom sites shared it, so we got some of those older people responding. It’s not like fan fiction was just invented on Tumblr. Fan fiction, depending on how you define it, of course, has been around for a really long time.
Was there anything you saw in the responses that surprised you?
It was remarkable — and again this is highly unscientific — that people who had entered fandom in the ‘90s were much more likely to talk about fan fiction as being not-for-profit, as being separate from the creators, and separate from the powers that be. Again, I’m not saying that this is a watertight case, but I thought that was a very interesting correlation that appeared. If I was going to do another study that was more scientific, I would definitely have that as a hypothesis now.
I was a little surprised that so many people mentioned that fan fiction can be of any length. Other types of stories, other types of novels, poetry, etc., those things all have limited length. They have to be a certain length in order to be published. Fan fiction can be any length that you want, from 100 words all the way up to literally the longest work of fiction ever written. That’s a formal aspect of fan-fic that I was not very attentive to, but Elizabeth was like “of course, duh.”
Obviously you have a huge pile of data to go through. Do you know what kind of stuff you’re going to pull out next?
We’re actually asking people about this. First of all, the data is available for anybody to look at. We’ve made that available under a creative commons license for anyone to use, any other researchers who want to dig into it absolutely should. I know there are a lot of other fan studies people who are getting at it. I’m sure that there will be third-party research done on this data that will come out in the future.
Which part of the Definitions Survey would you most like to hear about next? (If you pick "edge case works," tell us which ones especially!)
We have a bunch of questions where we asked people to talk about individual edge cases in fan fiction. Stuff like Fifty Shades of Grey and The Master of the Universe, which is the fan fiction it was based on. Stuff like Anna Todd’s After or Rainbow Rowell’s Carry On, which are edge-case fan-fic in a very different way. We’ll do little mini dives into each of those questions, or if we see patterns emerging we’ll talk about that.
Because not everybody has read every edge case, those will necessarily come from smaller data sets. On those we’ll probably stick to just doing little pop-up Tumblr posts. We also asked our Patreon patrons a question about how to define “fandom,” which was basically a test balloon for some future survey. We don’t know if we will run it or not, but we would do the same thing as we did for this, which is coding the responses and then pulling them out. And we would probably put that in our next quarterly zine.
You mentioned in the results that there’s been some overlap between fan fiction and the entertainment industry in the last few years. What do you think is causing that?
The blend between fan fiction and professional fiction wouldn’t exist if not for changing ideas about fandom and changing understandings of fan fiction on the part of the public. Not just entertainment. Personally, I think this has to do with the advent of the internet and the fact that now more people have access to this tiny subculture. In the past, in the ‘80s, you had to be a big enough nerd to go to science fiction conventions and find the fan fiction that people were selling in zine format. With the internet, you no longer have to do that. You can stumble upon it, and more and more people have done that. It’s become normalized.
And in the process of that, the entertainment industry has seen that fan fiction is a great breeding ground for new talent and that it actually serves to promote the things that it’s about. Of course there are lots of other reasons to write fan-fic besides coming to participate in the commercial enterprise, but from an industry perspective that’s why it matters.
Obviously the big example everyone always pulls out is Fifty Shades of Grey. Can you think of others that have bridged that same gap that don’t get talked about as much?
Oh, completely. There’s a ton of stuff that bridges that, throughout history. You can look back at things like Sherlock Holmes pastiches, which are fan fiction that’s published. That includes things like Laurie R. King’s The Beekeeper’s Apprentice. She’s a huge Sherlock Holmes fan, she’s a mystery writer, so she created this series of stories where Sherlock Holmes has a new female partner. These are professionally published fiction, and they are also partaking in a lot of tropes of fan writing. That’s one way you could talk about it.
There’s also a lot of science fiction writers that start out writing fan fiction, and then realized “Oh you know, this is actually about original characters, I’d rather have it be original.” I don’t have confirmation on this, but I’ve certainly heard that Lois McMaster Bujold’s Vorkosigan Saga, which is an incredibly well-known science fiction universe, started off as a Star Trek fan-fic. It got the serial numbers rubbed off and moved on.
Can you explain that phrase? “The serial numbers rubbed off?”
So, you know when you steal a car? Stolen engine parts or whatever, they have serial numbers on them so that they can be traced. If you rub the serial numbers off, you don’t know where it came from, you can’t trace it. When people rub the serial numbers off their fan-fic, what that means is they take out all the things that make it fan-fic and just leave the story itself, the archetypes of the characters, and rename everything. Fifty Shades of Grey is like this. It started off as fan-fic with Edward and Bella, [E.L. James] rubbed the serial numbers off, and now it’s a professionally published story.
There are a bunch of other examples, but unfortunately when people “rub the serial numbers off,” often they don’t want it to be very public. Fifty Shades was the first one where that was very public.
You mention in the survey results that this distinction makes it a little bit hard to differentiate between fan fiction borrowing and the borrowing that any literature does naturally, or does consciously.
Completely. There are lots of examples of things that are borrowing traditionally. For example, let’s take the current hot thing in the literary world, [George Saunders’] Lincoln in the Bardo. How is that not fan fiction about Abraham Lincoln?
There are some reasons I could think of. It wasn’t written in the context of a fan fiction community, so maybe that makes it not fan fiction. It was written for money, although probably not that much money because it’s literary fiction. It was written for status, it was written for all these things that are not usually what fan fiction accomplishes. But I would guess that it was also written out of a sympathy for Lincoln, and an emotional affection. I can’t imagine writing something like that without that being part of it. And in that respect, especially if you admire Lincoln or see him as a person to emulate — which I mean, who wouldn’t? — where do we cross over that line from it being not fan-fic to it being fan-fic?
Some people in the survey were defining fan fiction based on what it is in itself and other people were defining it based on its context, or who it was made by or made for.  Is that a divide you expected?
I think we expected that both those things would appear. If people can take away something from this survey, I think I would want it to be that those two definitions are both important in different ways. There’s the definition that fan fiction is just like literary fiction — anyone can do it, it’s just borrowing. [By that definition], The Aeneid is fan-fic of The Iliad, Ulysses is fan-fic of The Odyssey, Lincoln in the Bardo is real person fan-fic about Lincoln. That is an argument that helps fan writers talk about the respectability of their practice. If you’re writing fan fiction you can say, “Look, I’m part of a great tradition of taking inspiration very directly from other things.”
Fan fiction is also a specific culture that’s developed, and it’s been really looked down upon by a lot of people. In this culture, there was this whole thing about secrecy for a long time because people didn’t want to get sued. It’s a very female culture. When men write something that looks like fan fiction, they get paid a lot of money for it. When women write fan fiction, they have to hide it, in order to not get sued. This is a big deal culturally, subculturally. When you think about that, then it becomes very important that fan fiction is made in the community.
There are certain tropes and certain styles. There’s even phrases that I can identify. If I’m reading a book I’ll go, “Oh my god, I think that person wrote fan-fic,” and then I look into it deeper and they totally did. One of the things is that people are always “toeing out of their shoes” in fan-fic. I don’t know why, but like three years ago this became a thing. And now everybody toes out of their shoes. The influence is so strong within the community. And that’s something that, for example, Lincoln in the Bardo is not part of. I’ve read it and certainly there are other fan-fic writers have read it, but he’s not writing it for us. No one toes out of their shoes in Lincoln in the Bardo.

Twitch added an affiliate program a few months ago, giving streamers a chance to make money by monetizing their streams. The company is now expanding that by giving affiliate streamers a 5 percent cut of any revenue made from purchases of games or in-game items through Twitch’s store.
The revenue share has been available to “Partner” streamers — who are selected by Twitch — since the store opened in February, but today’s move opens that up to any streamer who qualifies to be an affiliate. Any user who, in the last 30 days, has had at least 500 total minutes of broadcasts, seven unique broadcast days, and an average of three concurrent viewers or more, along with at least 50 followers, can apply to join the affiliate program.
Affiliate steamers will be able to start making money off of game purchases today. All an affiliate user has to do is stream a game that’s offered on the store, and a purchase link will automatically show up on the page for viewers watching the stream. The revenue share for purchases joins the previous “Cheering with Bits” as an option for affiliates to monetize their streams. But there’s still a long way to go for Twitch to build out the platform for users who hope to make a living streaming, including offering money from channel subscriptions and ad revenue splits (both of which are offered to Partners), which Twitch plans to open up to affiliates sometime in the future.
Correction: Clarified that Twitch is planning to bring ad revenue splits and channel subscriptions as monetization options for affiliates in the future.
1932's The Mummy is a cinematic classic that's been periodically brought back to life by Universal Pictures. The first series ran through 1955, with a second reboot following in 1959, with a third series hitting theaters in 1999, with Brendan Fraser in the lead role.
Now, Universal has brought the series back once again, for an ambitious new cinematic universe that will include all of the classic monsters in the studio's back catalog, this time starring Tom Cruise. Here's all the news, updates, and trailers for latest reboot.
The Mummy hits theaters on June 9th, 2017.
Sharing the Wi-Fi password when a friend comes over is one of the minor trials of modern life. After all, your devices are all already configured, so why should you have the exact alphanumeric string of random capitals memorized to hand out at the drop of a hat?
Apple appears to be solving this problem in iOS 11, according to a report from 9to5Mac. It notes that the upcoming iOS update includes a new Wi-Fi-sharing feature that should save you from digging behind your couch to find out what the password on your router actually is. The function reportedly works simply: if a device running iOS 11 tries to join your Wi-Fi network, your nearby iOS devices will get a pop-up asking if you’d like to share your password. Simply tap the “Send Password” button, and the other device will autofill the password and connect.
9to5Mac notes that the devices need to be close by and unlocked for the feature to work, which should prevent your neighbors from spamming your phone to try and mooch a free ride off your internet.
iOS 11 is expected to release for iPhones and iPads sometime this fall.
Apple revealed iOS 11 at its Worldwide Developers Conference this week, and with it, a welcome array of fixes to annoying iPhone problems. Offload Unused Apps will automatically remove little-used apps to free up space on your phone. Maps has added improvements for when you’re driving, like lane guidance, speed limits, and the ability to silence distractions with Do Not Disturb While Driving. But the one feature perhaps most likely to elicit a “finally!” has largely gone unnoticed: the volume slider no longer intrusively blankets the entire screen.
The biggest change in iOS 11. That nobody has mentioned. The volume indicator no longer obstructs the center of the screen obnoxiously. pic.twitter.com/tE3F4qvkVT
Pointed out on Twitter by user @Turqmelon, the new iOS 11 volume HUD is now neatly tucked in the top-right corner of the screen. It’s much sleeker-looking than its predecessor, which unnecessarily covers video content for a few seconds any time the volume is adjusted. It’s a change that’s been highly requested by users for some time, and it follows in the steps of some third-party apps, such as YouTube and Snapchat, which already removed the clunky default volume indicator in favor of their own, smaller versions. Apple’s new volume HUD look is universal across iOS 11, and so now, after 10 long years, we no longer have to choose between adjusting the volume and... actually watching content.
The public beta of iOS 11 is due to come at the end of June, with a release expected in autumn.
If Apple doesn’t get rid of this volume video blocking crap in iOS 11, I’m switching to Android. pic.twitter.com/H0M1utNRth
Apple is giving users the option to enable much stricter location rules with iOS 11, according to MacRumors. The company began this effort last year by adding a new option to iOS 10 that grants apps access to your location only while they’re actively being used. But this “while in use” setting is up to developers to actually enable.
The vast majority of popular apps did integrate that new feature. Others, however — Uber chief among them — still force iPhone users to choose between always or never providing location data. The latter choice breaks the functionality of an app like Uber, leaving customers with really only one option. Apple seems poised to eliminate this false choice in iOS 11 by making the “while in use” restriction available for every app.
iOS 11 *FORCES* option for GPS access “Only While Using the App” even when apps don’t offer it!Suck it Uber. pic.twitter.com/op1siQ8rZz
Uber tracks a user’s location “from the time of trip request through five minutes after the trip ends, including when the app is in the background.” The company reasons that this is necessary to provide optimal accuracy and customer service. Users weren’t thrilled about the frequent tracking, especially after it was discovered that the app was sometimes requesting location data long after a ride had ended; the company eventually claimed this was due to the optional extension that lets users hail a ride with Apple’s default Maps app.
In April, The New York Times reported on a tense conversation between Apple CEO Tim Cook and Uber’s Travis Kalanick, during which Cook scolded the chief executive and threatened to remove Uber from the App Store for violating Apple’s developer guidelines. That dustup was eventually settled, but Apple’s tightening of location access can easily be read as a reaction to Uber’s tactics.
Other iOS apps on my iPad that make users choose between “always” and “never” for location:
Earlier this week, Apple announced HomePod, a new $350 speaker that’s designed to seamlessly work with all your Apple devices and Apple Music content. But HomePod doesn’t come out until December, which is a long time to wait.
Fortunately, we can cast our eyes back in time to the heady days of 2006, when Apple released the iPod Hi-Fi, a $350 speaker designed to work with all your Apple devices and iTunes content. The Hi-Fi was a huge, white plastic behemoth with a 30-pin iPod dock built into the top for charging and playback. And while it was considered by many to be pricey for what it offered (a comment that, coincidentally, may also apply to HomePod), I personally found it to be a great speaker with big sound.
Apple discontinued the Hi-Fi back in 2007, but you can still snag one used for around $100 to $150. Once you’ve got your hands on the finest speaker 2006 had to offer, here’s what you need to do to get it working with your 2017 iPhone:
As my colleague Sam Byford noted, you can simply plug in any number of modern accessories like an Amazon Echo Dot, Google Chromecast Audio, or Bluetooth adapter to add modern wireless functionality to the Hi-Fi.
Related
This is the boring practical method — it should take all of 10 seconds to set up, and it’s a basically foolproof way to use a Hi-Fi today.
But you’re not here for practical. You want to use the Hi-Fi as Steve Jobs intended: with a docked Apple device charging while playing back musical locally, controlled with a stubby plastic Apple Remote from across the room! Sure, you could use the aux port and a Lighting-to-3.5mm dongle, but this is a charging dock, and by god, we’re going to get this to charge something.
The problem is that there are a couple hurdles we need to get past to put this together. (As a note, my Hi-Fi was stolen a few years back so I haven’t been able to 100 percent verify that this works with current iPhones, but this method did definitely function as late as 2013 with an iPhone 5, and I can’t see why it wouldn’t be valid now.)
First up is the fact that the Hi-Fi is really old, technologically speaking. Not only does the speaker use Apple’s old, 30-pin iPod charger, but it’s so old that the connector only supports Firewire charging, instead of the later generations of iPods, which used a similar physical adapter but used USB. So, the first thing we need is an adapter, like this $14 Scosche one, which allows you to use later, USB charging-based iPod and iPhone devices with older Firewire docks. There are a bunch of adapters floating around out there for this, but since Hi-Fi harkens back to a time when Apple was pushing its Universal Dock system, I find the Scosche adapter works best, since it both clips right into the Hi-Fi, and in turn allows you to clip in more Universal Dock adapters. (Scosche used to make a white one that matched the entire color scheme much better, but it’s been sold out for years.)
So, that gets us to compatibility with any 30-pin iOS device. But we’re not there yet, because Apple discontinued that adapter in favor of the Lightning port in 2012. So we’ll need a 30-pin-to-Lightning adapter from Apple, which still (ridiculously) costs $29, which we’ll connect to the Scosche adapter.
That gets us a working Hi-Fi that can charge an iPhone and play back music. But there’s one last piece since, at this point, we have a fairly tall stack of adapters piled on top of our Hi-Fi here, which isn’t exactly a stable place to put an iPhone. So you’ll need something like the Flybridge, which is basically a $12 piece of plastic that clicks into Apple’s Universal Dock with a space designed to fit the Lightning adapter to support your phone. Click that into the Scosche dock, too, and you’ll be all set!
Everyone who’s booked on a stay on Airbnb likely has a check-in horror story: that one apartment nestled deep inside a confusing, labyrinthian complex, accessible by way of a hard-to-find lock box hidden inside a tall row of shrubbery with a key code buried in an email message you’re having trouble finding. Airbnb knows that its check-in process is inconsistent and, often, not ideal — at least when compared to a standard hotel. So the company is making a big effort to streamline the process and make it less confusing.
Airbnb is building its new process right into its app as an opt-in, step-by-step guide hosts can create using photos and text instructions. Because hosts aren’t always around to help you find your way into an apartment or house, they often rely on attaching some prewritten block of text in a message sent in-app or as an email. These instructions are typically inconsistent from host to host, and are really dependent on how thoughtful the host wants to be.
Now, given this new check-in process, Airbnb will urge hosts to follow its rubric and make detailed guides. The check-in guides will also be automatically saved offline within the app, so you can still access them without a data connection. The goal is to “cut down on the number of messages to respond to, copy-pasting or rewriting instructions for every guest,” Airbnb explains in a blog post. “Hosts can answer commonly asked questions once, then rest assured guests’ path to entry will be an easy one.” Airbnb says the new check-in features will arrive later this month for users, guests and hosts, every country the company operates.
Apple might give users more control over their AirPods with the launch of iOS 11. If you currently want to change tracks on your AirPods, you have to double tap to activate Siri and then tell it to skip. That’s obviously not ideal for when you’re outside your house or in a noisy space. But with iOS 11, it’s possible that wearers might be able to double tap on an AirPod to skip to the next track. Double tapping on the other AirPod could go back to the previous song. You can assign this functionality to whatever side you want from your Bluetooth options.
YouTube channel Appsolutely Tech tested this feature and publicized it in the video below. You’ll notice that a tap can also be used to play / pause your music or wake up Siri. Let’s just hope Apple keeps this functionality when it releases the new OS publicly because I know lots of AirPod wearers would would love to use it.


“Welcome to a new world of gods and monsters,” Russell Crowe solemnly intones midway through The Mummy, a modern action remake of Universal Pictures’ 1932 monster-movie classic. It’s a slight variant on a line from Bride Of Frankenstein, another Universal classic, and it’s consciously presented as a tagline for the studio’s new “Dark Universe” franchise. To date, Universal has planned out eight films in the series, in an attempt to forge a modern money-printing machine like the Marvel Cinematic Universe out of its legacy films. Crowe’s character, an update on Robert Louis Stevenson’s Dr. Henry Jekyll, is presented as a gateway to that universe, and a representative of Prodigium, an organization that deals directly with the problems caused by gods and monsters.
He’s also, incidentally, an actual character with a story function in The Mummy. But director Alex Kurtzman and his screenwriting team (David Koepp, Christopher McQuarrie, and Dylan Kussman) don’t care as much about that as they do about the big picture. The Mummy is a relatively functional creature-feature movie, packed with oversized action sequences. But it reminds viewers at every turning point that it isn’t a story so much as a prologue, a brand-deposit setup meant to whet appetites for more Dark Universe installations. The approach may pay off in the long run, but in the short term, it feels like sitting down for a movie, and getting a feature-length trailer instead.
Tom Cruise stars as Nick Morton, an Army long-range reconnaissance scout who’s in it for the money, not the military. Along with whiny, reluctant buddy Chris Vail (The New Girl’s Jake Johnson), Nick takes advantage of his considerable operating freedom to sneak away from his assigned duties and loot priceless antiquities from ancient burial sites.
But as a wearyingly long prologue explains, an Egyptian princess named Ahmanet (Star Trek Beyond’s Sofia Boutella) once made a shady deal with the god Set, and was buried alive in Mesopotamia as punishment, far from her homeland. Nick’s latest reckless grave-robbing venture in Iraq ends with him, Chris, and weirdly undefined but bossy Jenny Halsey (Annabelle Wallis) in Ahmanet’s long-hidden tomb, where they ignore a series of warning signs and evil portents in their rush to get Ahmanet’s sarcophagus out of the country.
Before long, the semi-revived Ahmanet is a CGI effect lurching around London, draining victims of life and turning them into comically fragile, shrieking zombies. She’s specifically attached herself to Nick, the chosen one she plans to sacrifice to incarnate her lover/master Set into the world. That means getting rid of Jenny, who’s formed an underdeveloped, implausible relationship with Nick, and it means crossing Prodigium, an organization with a vested interest in not letting revived Egyptian monster-gods roam around free. It also means a series of chases and explosions, as Ahmanet works her will on the world largely through mass vermin attacks and magical sandstorms.
Some of these ideas come from the 1999 Brendan Fraser Mummy re-imagining, which was also fond of snarling, anthropomorphized sand-clouds and waves of computer-generated creepy-crawlies. One recurring story conceit, involving a smirking corpse guiding Nick around London, is borrowed from An American Werewolf In London. There’s a little bit of Sam Raimi’s Evil Dead series in Ahmanet’s zombies, which aren’t particularly effective fighters, but are persistent enough to give a protagonist pause even when they’re broken down into flailing parts.
But a fair bit of the new Mummy does come from the 1932 original, with all the genders swapped. The film’s most interesting idea, also present in the 1932 version, is that Nick and Ahmanet become mentally connected as soon as she identifies him as her intended lover/victim, and he’s deeply torn between going to her and staying with Jenny and the land of the living. (Just as in the 1932 version, the living love-interest option is by far the blander, more boring one, while the dead love interest has a soulful otherworldly appeal. Plus the promise of immense power.) Turning Tom Cruise, one of the world’s most famous action stars, into a swooning victim of a much older, stronger, and more capable force — one that routinely beats the ever-living crap out of him throughout the film — is an unusual narrative choice. And it’s one of several that pushes The Mummy away from the most standard action beats of a modern action film.
But most of those choices — including a curtailed “Glad that worked out!” ending and the extensive focus on Prodigium — point toward Universal’s efforts to make The Mummy a “welcome to a world” prelude rather than a stand-alone adventure. Nick, Chris, and Jenny are all frustratingly thin characters, and Kurtzman’s story doesn’t seem to care about any of the details around them. (Past the opening firefight, for instance, the script entirely forgets that Nick is in the military, and might have responsibilities and resources of his own.) Nick theoretically has a redemption story, as a smug, self-serving thief who falls in love and discovers his own capacity for self-sacrifice, but it’s a matter of a few scattered lines and a couple of pinched looks from Cruise. “Somewhere in there, fighting to get out, is a good man,” Jenny tells Nick at one point. The utterly blank look she gets back isn’t the reaction of a man struggling with complex inner demons, it’s the response of an actor thinking, “Wait, is this guy supposed to be an anti-hero? Did we have a scene establishing that?”
Ahmanet herself gets better treatment from the film. She’s motivated by lust for power, but like Boris Karloff in the 1932 Mummy, she still comes with a creepy appeal, a combination of the usual allure of the unrestrained villain, and the draw of being the strongest personality in the story. Boutella makes her part victim and part beast, and gives her a sexual tension with Cruise that’s considerably more compelling than his nonexistent chemistry with Wallis. That approach alone signals that Universal may still understand the basic draw of its monsters, or virtually any monsters — the way they channel the human id, the way they act unrestrained, their freedom of expression and movement. Ahmanet gets much more of a backstory and a personality than anyone else onscreen, but she also gives Boutella a chance to play with complexities of drive and intention that no one else in the film has. This is, first and foremost, a movie about a monster, not the man trying to deal with her.
Kurtzman largely keeps The Mummy’s action scenes clear and tightly paced, with a couple of standouts in a face-off against Jekyll’s alter-ego Hyde, and a desperate underwater sequence near the film’s climax. He also injects some light energy in the form of deadpan humor, accomplished via careful editing timing as much as anything in the performances. When he cuts from a scene of violent chaos to Nick and Jenny in shock afterward, sitting and pondering what their lives have come to, it’s a surprisingly funny moment. When she argues that he’s a good man because he gave her the only parachute during a plane crash, he tells her, “I thought there was another one” with such pained, intense sincerity that it comes across as hilarious. Judging from the opening tomb-robbing action and some early banter, Kurtzman and company seem to want to position Nick as an Indiana Jones figure, a tough man with a vulnerable streak and a knack for straight-faced knockabout wit. Instead, he comes across as heavier and duller, frequently stymied by events around him. But they find a little humor in that haplessness, too. It’s not the broader goofery of the 1999 Mummy, but it’s a relief from mountains of exposition and thudding lines like “Evil will never rest. It will call to him.”
Given that The Mummy only barely works as a movie on its own account, the question becomes whether it works as a franchise-starter. And the answer is that while its franchise elements are foregrounded, they still aren’t terribly compelling. Crowe doesn’t get any more development than the other characters — the screenwriters clearly feel that Jekyll is a known quantity, his history already established in Stevenson’s book, so there’s no point in fleshing him out further. Prodigium is a story hook waiting for a background, a clear organizing principle for the planned creature features to come. When Nick gets dragged through one of the group’s bases, and the camera pauses to linger on a fanged skull, it might as well have “The Dark Universe’s Dracula, coming soon” printed on it in neon colors. And the movie doesn’t have a finale so much as a voiceover promise that the story will continue down the road.
Taken as a pilot episode for a series, The Mummy is a reasonably fleet introduction to some basic story principles and some ongoing characters. And at least it suggests the film series to come is intended to be aware of its roots, and aware of an audience that demonstrably enjoys witty dialogue and intense action. But nothing about this movie suggests a fresh or unique approach to franchise storytelling or contemporary monster movies. As an introduction, it’s functional. As a template for future films, it’s a warning that Dark Universe filmmakers are going to need to think about the stories they’re telling as much as the stories they’re planning.
Samsung has updated its J line of low-cost smartphones to more closely resemble the recently released Galaxy S8. The J3, which has already been released in the US on AT&T for $179, comes with a 5-inch HD display, Exynos 7570 quad-core 1.4GHz processor, 2GB of RAM, 16GB of storage, and a 2,400mAh battery.
The J5 and J7 both come with HD super AMOLED displays (5.2-inch and 5.5-inch, respectively); 16GB of storage, expandable up to 256GB with a microSD card; quad-core 1.6GHz processors; and 13MP front and rear cameras.
The J7 is fitted with 3GB of RAM compared to 2GB in the J5, and all three devices run Android Nougat. The J5 will be available in Europe in June for €279, while the J7 will hit European shelves in July for €339. (Currently there are no release dates for the J5 or J7 in the US.) Despite being available already in the States, the J3 won’t make its way to Europe until August, when it’ll retail for €219.
All three devices will be available in black or gold when they ship.
Airbnb has a history of proactively working with its hosts to offer temporary housing in order to help those displaced by crisis. When Superstorm Sandy hit the East Coast in 2012, it created the Disaster Response Tool. Earlier this year, the company offered free housing to those in limbo due to Trump’s executive orders that suspended refugee admission and travel to the US from seven majority-Muslim nations. Today, the home-sharing company is launching Open Homes, a platform that aims to unite and simplify its humanitarian efforts under one program to let people host refugees, evacuees, and others in times of need, for free.
Airbnb lets anyone sign up for Open Homes and set parameters for how they choose to participate (days the home is available, number of people to host, etc.). It currently lists two primary causes for hosts to support — refugees and evacuees — and hosts will then be matched with trusted organizations like the International Rescue Committee (IRC) that specialize in these areas of need. The organizations are responsible for vetting the individuals they place, and then making the bookings.
Open Homes solves many of the logistical problems Airbnb has faced in trying to help refugees in the past, most notably the manual matching between hosts and those who are displaced. Airbnb’s approach is not the first to match those who need aid with housing — joining the ranks of organizations like France’s SIGNA and UK-based Refugees at Home — but it is the most cohesive and simplified approach the company has presented to date. It also allows for a faster process to match those in need with homes, meaning fewer missed opportunities to help in real time.
As of now, there are 6,000 listings available for use on Open Homes around the world, half of which are offered by individuals who are not existing Airbnb hosts, but simply have a desire to help. Airbnb’s five-year goal is to provide free short-term housing to 100,000 people in need.
Ant-Man is easily one of the weirdest Marvel superheroes, thanks to his ability to grow, shrink, and, of course, communicate telepathically with ants. Those gifts usually lead to wacky hijinks. Disney XD is set to air six shorts starring the superhero this weekend, and the ones we’ve seen capture the character’s quirkiness perfectly.
Each short, animated by French filmmakers Ugo Bienvenu and Kevin Manach, stars Scott Lang (the Ant-Man from the 2015 film) trying to get himself out of some ridiculous jam. Voiced by Josh Keaton (Spectacular Spider-Man), Scott has to face down Yellowjacket while trying to get baking soda for his daughter’s science fair experiment, or partner with the Wasp to take on an alien invasion.
In one short, he brings down the villainous Egghead (his actual name!) while his suit is shorting out.
The shorts have a Silver Age, Jack Kirby-esque feel to them, thanks to the sharp animation style and Lang’s constant quips. Lang is a natural swashbuckler here; the character seems way more comfortable in the suit than he did in the Ant-Man film.
Three more Ant-Man shorts from Bienvenu and Manach will air over the weekend. These aren’t the only great Marvel shorts to come from France. Last year, Marvel Animation started moving projects to the country to take advantage of the French national film commission’s tax rebates for international studios. Filmmaker Arnaud Delord was handed a Rocket and Groot short series, and his work has been nothing short of hilarious:

For the first time ever, astronomers have seen a distant star warp the light of another star, making it seem as though the object changed its position in the sky. It’s a huge discovery — since even Albert Einstein didn’t think such a thing would be possible to observe. Now that we’ve proved Einstein wrong (but also right), astronomers hope to spot even more events just like this, as well as use these occurrences to learn more about the stars in our Universe.
Einstein first predicted gravitational microlensing in his theory of general relativity. It works kind of like how it sounds: it’s gravity acting like a lens that can manipulate light. Basically, supermassive objects — such as stars and black holes — warp space and time around them. This warped space-time can then act like a magnifying glass, changing the path that light takes through the Universe. Specifically, microlensing can occur when one star — the “source” — passes directly behind another star — the “lens” — along our line of sight from Earth. The gravity from the lens warps the light from the source, making it appear brighter and slightly distorted.
These events require stars that are very far apart to line up perfectly. That’s why Einstein once wrote that "there is no hope of observing this phenomenon directly." Our telescope technology has become far more sophisticated than in Einstein’s day — which is what allowed us to observe something he thought we’d never see. In 2014, a group of astronomers using NASA’s Hubble Space Telescope spotted a rare type of microlensing, when a dense white dwarf star passed in front of another star thousands of light-years away. The stars weren’t exactly aligned, but they were close enough that the white dwarf made it seem like the background star performed a small loop in the sky. “It looks like the white dwarf pushed it out of the way,” Terry Oswalt, an astronomer at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University who was not involved in this discovery but wrote a perspective piece in Science, tells The Verge. “That’s not what happened, of course. It just looks like that.”
The astronomers also used the apparent movement of the background star to measure the mass of the passing white dwarf, a novel technique detailed in a paper published today in Science. And they say this isn’t the last time they’ll make measurements like this either. Now that they’ve figured out how to spot these kinds of lensing events, they’re hoping to find even more with new ground- and space-based telescopes that are coming online soon. “This opens up a new field,” Kailash Sahu, the astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute who led this discovery, tells The Verge. “Nobody had tried this before, so it’s a new technique. And it gives us a very unique and direct metric for measuring the mass of a star.”
Microlensing is just one of many types of effects that occur when a huge object passes in front of a bright one. Whole galaxies have been spotted warping the light from other galaxies before. And sometimes, a foreground object can even break apart the light from a background object, creating four different images in what’s known as an “Einstein cross.”
Microlensing is a special type of this phenomenon. In this case, a star passing behind another object is focused and amplified into something that looks much brighter than it actually is. It’s become popular in the last 20 years in the search for exoplanets and dark matter, since it can temporarily brighten distant objects that would otherwise seem dim.
In fact, Einstein predicted that if two stars were to perfectly align, the background star would appear as a bright ring around the star in the front. We haven’t seen this perfect ring from two stars outside our Solar System yet. But this discovery is the closest thing that we’ve ever seen — the stars weren’t perfectly aligned, so we saw this weird shift in position instead.
We’ve only ever seen this type of movement before with our own Sun, during an eclipse. The Sun has enough gravity to bend the light of background stars, says Oswalt. “The catch, of course, is the Sun is so bright you can’t see stars next to it in the sky, even though they’re there.” So during the 1919 total solar eclipse, astronomers measured the position of stars next to the Sun when it was covered up by the Moon, and compared the eclipse measurements to the stars’ positions at night. Sure enough, the stars seemed to have changed their locations, indicating they had been warped when the Sun was present.
Nearly 100 years later, no one has seen a star change the position of another star quite like that before. But for many years now, Sahu and his team have been searching for stars in the sky that may possibly align and create this effect outside our Solar System. To do this, he identified 5,000 stars that make the largest sweeping movements through the night sky. “If they have a large space motion, then the chance they will come close to another background star is high,” says Sahu.
After making enough projections, Sahu and his team identified around three candidates that may causing a microlensing event. One of those was a white dwarf named Stein 2051 B, which was expected to pass in front of another star in March 2014. With Hubble, the astronomers observed this white dwarf multiple times before and after the crossing, capturing the relative movement of the background star. And sure enough, the more distant star shifted its position ever so slightly as the white dwarf passed by. “It was like trying to measure this little firefly moving across a quarter next to a bright light bulb,” says Sahu.
But those tiny relative movements were enough to tell the team exactly how massive Stein 2051 B is. Until now, figuring out the mass of a white dwarf has been difficult. These objects, thought to be the leftover remnants of dead stars, are very small, making them hard to detect and analyze. Before this paper, only three white dwarfs had their masses precisely measured. Astronomers even tried to estimate the mass of Stein 2051 B, but they thought the white dwarf’s mass was extremely low, making it fairly exotic for this kind of object. The microlensing event paints a different story: Stein 2051 B’s mass seems to be fairly normal.
Measuring the masses of stars this way could be much more precise than other techniques, since it involves observing the effect that one star has on another, Sahu says. There could be more measurements like this headed our way soon. Another one of the candidates Sahu identified was Proxima Centauri, the closest star to our Sun. The team watched as the star passed in front of a background star, and the results of those observations could be released soon.
But there are even more telescopes coming online that could be used to spot this phenomena. The Large Synoptic Survey Telescope being built in Chile will eventually provide super detailed images of the Universe, and NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope will be able to peer deeper into space than ever before. All of this equipment and more could be used to predict when another microlensing event will occur.
“These surveys will be measuring a billion or more stars’ motions,” says Oswalt. “So these kinds of events can be predicted now. The search is on.”

It's impossible to miss one of Apple's biggest ambitions for the HomePod: control over your home, and a central placement within it.
It's right there in the name. And yet, the way Apple is trying to set the HomePod apart from direct competitors like Google's Home and Amazon's Echo, the HomePod ends up positioned oddly far from what seems like such an obvious goal.
In case you missed its announcement Monday, the HomePod is Apple's first shot at a smart speaker. It can be used alone or wirelessly synced up with other speakers, and it has built-in Siri for answering questions and taking commands.
But there are three things Google and Amazon do with their smart speakers that Apple doesn't: they make products that are discreet, they sell them at a more affordable price, and they put a heavy emphasis on what their digital assistants can do.
The first two of those go hand in hand. Google's Home and Amazon's Echo Dot (and to a lesser extent, the full-sized Echo) are small enough that they can be slipped into corners or placed unobtrusively on tables, counters, and nightstands. They aren't necessarily attractive (though the Home can look oddly cute, like a baby speaker that's yet to finish growing), but they're mostly ignorable.
With their lower prices — $130 for the Home, $50 for the Dot, $180 for the full Echo — it's also much more realistic for someone to buy a few and place them throughout the house. That's encouraged, too, because both Google and Amazon highlight how useful it is to have immediate access to their voice assistants. And that's being enhanced with new features, like both speakers getting the ability to make calls.
Being able to put these devices in multiple rooms is critical to delivering on the promise of an ever-present assistant and creating the voice-controlled home dreamt up by sci-fi movies. They're an easy way to turn lights on and off, set alarms, or adjust the climate. But that convenience vanishes if you can't get voice control in the rooms you end up using the most.
At $350, putting a HomePod in multiple rooms of your house isn't a very appealing prospect. And while Apple has quite possibly made the most attractive speaker of the bunch, its speaker also takes up a bit more room. The Echo is a utility, designed to be ignored. But the HomePod is a speaker, meant to stand out as one.
There also aren't as many reasons to spread the HomePod throughout many rooms. Yes, it can be a hub for controlling smart home equipment. But Apple seems to be making its digital assistant a secondary focus, unlike its competitors. Siri will be limited to specific categories that Apple thinks make sense for the HomePod — weather, reminders, unit conversions, and so on — which means you aren't going to be ordering a pizza, hailing a cab, or making a dinner reservation all by voice.
And it doesn't seem like that deemphasis is entirely because Siri has fallen behind its competitors. If that were the case, Apple could have used Monday's announcement — at an event expressly for developers — to offer a way to code deeper, more valuable interactions with Siri. Instead, it didn't say a word about any of that with relation to the HomePod. It did expand Siri's functionality slightly, but those features were limited to iPhones and iPads.
Apple is trying to tap into its heritage as the iPod company to make a product that's music first, assistant second, despite the name giving the two equal billing. And while there are plenty of good reasons to like the HomePod if you're looking for a speaker, there are a lot fewer rooms in the house that need one, which means fewer places for Apple to sell them into.
That makes Apple's smart home play a bit more distant than it initially seemed. The HomePod can deliver the same type of home-controlling functions as Google's Home and Amazon's Echo, but it isn't priced or sized to wind up in every room. Like every element of Apple's smart home strategy so far, the function is there if you want it, but Apple doesn't really expect you to use it.
That's a reasonable position given how niche the smart home market remains. BI Intelligence recently found that only about 10 percent of homes are using smart home tech right now, with more and more expected to join in the coming years. Apple has always shot for the higher end of the market, while Google and Amazon have always shot for mass adoption. So the diverging strategies make sense.
Even so, Apple really does seem to be interested in the smart home market. Its smart home platform, HomeKit, has received regular updates over the past few years, from support for new types of products to a built-in home control app on iOS. And while Apple hasn’t made any HomeKit accessories (aside from, perhaps, the HomePod), it receives licensing revenue for every unit its partners make, which is a pretty good reason for Apple to want this space to take off.
Plus, as a very notable added bonus, every voice query going through Siri is one that isn’t going through Google Assistant or Alexa. Google clearly sees voice as a major component to the future of search, and that’s why it’s been so aggressive about getting into this nascent space.
By going only for the higher end of the market, Apple continues ceding some early smart home turf to its competitors, despite a wide-open opportunity. Apple's HomeKit platform is the easiest option for someone who wants to start tinkering with smart home tech, and a smart speaker expands that ease of use — but only so far as it can actually get into the spaces people live.
Speakers come in all kinds of shapes and sizes, and so do most of Apple's products, so it seems reasonable to expect the HomePod line to grow and evolve over time. But until that happens, Apple is allowing Google and, primarily right now, Amazon to establish themselves as the market's leaders. For a brand-new platform that, like smartphones, could eventually be at the core of how people interact with all kinds of products and services, that's a big risk.
Apple just wrapped up one of the most hardware-focused software conferences ever. Aside from updating existing products like the MacBook with new Kaby Lake processors, and announcing the new Siri-enabled HomePod speaker, Apple decided to use WWDC to please its pro users with new iMac and iMac Pro desktop computers.
The new iMac Pro won’t ship until December, but the speed-bumped iMacs are something pro users can buy today. It's been a while since we've upgraded the iMacs in our offices, and we're currently in the midst of a switch over to 4K video editing. Combine those two factors and you can guess that we spend a lot of time staring at progress bars.
So in the short time we had, we wanted to focus on the performance of one of the updated iMacs and see how it handles 4K video editing. I set one up at my normal workstation at The Verge just a couple days ago, and have been editing 4K video (and large photo files) since then. And the difference in performance has been instantly evident.
Before we dive into that, let’s talk about the hardware. The new 21.5-inch iMac has a base price of $1,099, but ones with a larger display and more power can cost as much as $5,299. The 27-inch review unit I’ve been testing costs $2,899. It comes with the Intel Core i7 4.2 GHz chip, 500GB of SSD storage, and 16GB of RAM. If I were to buy this machine myself, I’d probably add more RAM since I tend to multitask a lot. The storage space is less important to me, since I like working off external drives. Almost any drive would work for me except the 256GB model. It’s kind of like having a 16GB iPhone.
Most importantly for this first look, the graphics card in this iMac is the Radeon Pro 580 (with 8GB VRAM). It is the best graphics card you can get for the 27-inch 5K model. If you already think you need something better than that, you might as well just wait for the iMac Pro, the Mac Pro (expected sometime next year), or switch to Windows and deal with the transition.
For comparison, the iMac I was previously using had 3.2GHz i5 processor with 32GB of RAM and a much, much weaker graphics card: an AMD Radeon R9 M380 with 2GB of VRAM.
Aesthetically, the 2017 iMac looks identical to the old one. The back logo is the same size, the power button is in the exact same spot, and so are the fans at the bottom. There's just one external difference: the Thunderbolt 2 ports are replaced with USB-C ports that support Thunderbolt 3. Although I know some people are excited for this transition, I find these ports extremely annoying. Most of the external hard drives I use are Thunderbolt 2, forcing me once again to live that unavoidable #donglelife.
I was really blown away the first time I ever used a 5K screen; the difference was immediately apparent. But I didn’t really get the same impression with this screen. I’m assuming I’ve gotten used to the resolution at this point. Honestly, I also don’t see a major difference when it comes to its brightness. Yes, the screen pops and has vibrant and accurate colors, but I spend most of my time editing at around 70 percent of brightness anyway. Although I wish the screen was a bit less reflective.
That said, editing photos on this computer was a joy. The processing speed and accurate colors also helped, making it a fun experience. Seeing the changes happen almost instantaneously helped accelerate the editing process, but it also just made me experiment with photos more, which for a creative type does make a difference. It’s worth noting that I haven’t calibrated the monitor and have used the default color space “iMac,” which I’m assuming most of you will use anyway, and you won’t regret it.
Currently, I’m editing a Verge video that I can’t disclose just yet. It was shot with a Sony A7S II and a C100 camera. One shoots 4K, while the other captures 1080p. I’m editing in the latest version of Adobe Premiere Pro CC 2017, and I have decided to edit off of the internal SSD drive without any scratch drives, just to make it a bit more challenging on the machine. I’ve also set my previews to max render quality for the same reason... and I kept After Effects and Lightroom open in the background… and had around 15 browser tabs opened at all time for any procrastinating I felt like doing.
The final project will be exported in 1080p, but I still wanted to edit, color, and render 4K footage to see how the iMac would handle it. So far, it’s been flawless. No major lags, the rendering has gone very smoothly, and the export times were remarkably shorter. The faster rendering was noticeable even on a short, two-minute video.
So far I've only heard the fans revving up once during the export process, which took about minute and a half on the new iMac. I brought the same project over to my old workstation and the estimated export time was already almost a minute longer: 2:20 minutes compared to 1:30. The final export on the old iMac actually took a little bit over three minutes. Even applying a simple stabilizer on one of the clips took twice as long on the old iMac. That said, this was a relatively small video, just 193MB in size. Obviously, we’d have to spend more time with this machine to test it out to its limits. We haven’t had a chance to edit or watch VR content on it yet, or do extensive motion graphics on it.
If you do a lot of video or photo editing, and really don't want to wait for the iMac Pro models coming in the next year, you’ll likely be happy with what this new iMac has to offer. While I haven’t spent as much time editing on it yet as I inevitably will, and can’t weigh in on how wear and tear and extended use will affect it over time, over the past couple days the new iMac was able to handle short, 4K videos and professional-grade photo editing without any lags, glitches, or overall frustration.
If you have an earlier (non-Pro) iMac and are wondering if you should upgrade, that all depends on your specific needs; but it is worth at least comparing your current specs with the upgraded lineup. And if you think this upgrade would be minor compared to what you have now, then you might want to wait until the iMac Pro, which will offer a boost in specs but will also cost nearly twice as much.
Otherwise, for $2,899 you can get a fast new iMac that will make you feel like you can get most projects done more efficiently. Speaking of which, I should probably go back and finish that video before my deadline.
Photography by Vjeran Pavic / The Verge
There was way more hardware news at WWDC this week than I think anybody expected. And for small laptop partisans, one of the quietest announcements might have been one of the best: you can now get the MacBook with a Core i5 or i7 processor.
The review model Apple provided us with is the base model with a Core m3 processor. After just a day of using it, I’m not going to opine on its performance — especially since the 2016 MacBook I have to compare it to is a 2016 core m7.
The big question a lot of people are asking is whether the little MacBook is finally over that power hump that’s kept users from switching over to it. I sadly cannot answer that for you, but my hunch is that the basic calculus isn’t going to change. If you need speed, get a MacBook Pro or a Windows PC or maybe even a MacBook Air. If you can live with a single USB-C port (and all the dongles that entails), and don’t need a ton of power, stay tuned for a full review.
In the meantime, I can tell you a little about the keyboard. Beyond the processor, it’s the only other thing Apple’s changed. The keys have a slightly updated butterfly mechanism compared to last year’s model — they’re more similar to the keys on the MacBook Pro now. That doesn’t mean that they have a ton more key travel, though, because they feel about the same to me. I think I prefer the newer keyboard; it’s a little less clacky and the keys feel a little softer as you press down, but there’s still a satisfying click when you hit them. The finish is a little more matte, and Apple added the proper symbols above the Control and Option keys.
That’s a lot of words for a keyboard that, like the processors, isn’t likely to change the basic equation for most people. It’s slightly better than before. I like it, but then I am also a fan of the keyboard on last year’s MacBook (and many people are not).
One other thing, since you’re here: I need to talk to you a little bit about Intel’s processor naming conventions, because they are unnecessarily confusing. The chips in these MacBooks are part of a new family of processors from Intel called Kaby Lake, which are iteratively better than their predecessor processors, called Skylake. And when Intel made the switch over, it changed how it named things.
What you need to know is that the Core i5 and Core i7 options on the skinny little MacBooks are not the more powerful Core i5 and i7 processors you might be thinking of. They’re less powerful than the processors you can get on the MacBook Pro models.
In some ways, this makes sense: these new Kaby Lake chips are able to turbo up to some pretty impressive speeds. But in most ways, this is just annoying dissembling from Intel that everybody else is forced to play along with because Intel gets to name its things whatever it chooses. The secret to distinguishing these chips, as Jake Kastrenakes wrote last September, is to look for the full product code for the processors. If it’s a “Y” series instead of a “U,” it’s the lighter-power version.
For the record, here are the exact processor models shipping on these MacBooks:
And here’s how Apple describes these processor options when you go to buy them:
Enjoy great performance from seventh-generation Intel Core processors. Choose the speed and processor you want for your MacBook.
This MacBook model includes the dual-core Intel Core i5 at 1.3GHz with Turbo Boost speeds up to 3.2GHz. For faster performance, choose the optional dual-core Intel Core i7 processor for 1.4GHz of processing power and Turbo Boost speeds up to 3.6GHz.
Why did Intel do all this with the names? When Jake asked last year, this was the answer:
“We have also made significant performance improvements” to the Core m line “such that both form factor and performance lines were blurring,” Intel’s Scott Massey [wrote] in an email to The Verge.
But I have a different theory:
Intel's marketing strategy is forcing you to google Intel chips for 4 hours to understand what Intel is doing; increasing Intel impressions

Mophie’s charge force cases have been known for making it easier for people to wirelessly charge their phones at their desk or in the car using magnetic mounts. But now you’ll be able to wirelessly charge your smartphone anywhere you want, thanks to the new charge force powerstation mini.
The portable battery pack magnetically connects to Mophie’s charge force and juice pack cases, which are available for the iPhone 6 & 7 (Plus as well) and the Samsung Galaxy S7 & S8 (Edge and Plus, too). The powerstation mini is essentially a 3,000mAh battery with magnets, which fully charge every phone it’s compatible with, sans the S8 Plus and S7 Edge, which come with 3,500mAh and 3,600mAh batteries, respectively.
If you already have a juice pack or charge force case, the $49 powersation mini is probably a good purchase, but if you aren’t already in the Mophie ecosystem, it’ll cost you at least $100 to get involved, and that’s not including the other wireless charging products like the base and desk mount that most people will want.
The Mophie charge force powerstation mini is available for $49 from Mophie’s website today.
In May 2016, a celebrity couple went through a difficult breakup. Following the public relations guidebook, they formalized an official statement, hitting all the familiar notes. “Everybody thinks everything’s perfect, that we have a perfect life,” they said, “and it’s really not.”
The split, and subsequent damage control, seemed ordinary enough, as far as celebrity heartbreak goes. Except for one thing: the couple, Jesse Wellens and Jeana Smith, didn’t make the announcement on the cover of a tabloid, or through a publicist. It was on YouTube. And what followed was a flurry of gossip coverage produced not on Entertainment Tonight or TMZ, but on a collective of amateur YouTube channels, broadcasting breathlessly from bedroom studios.
As YouTubers have drawn massive audiences by documenting their lives online, a second tier of YouTube has naturally emerged: the YouTube tabloid. For years, intra-YouTube drama has been documented exhaustively and almost exclusively on YouTube itself. There’s little crossover into the real world. YouTube’s gossip ecosystem exists like a world parallel to our own — a little spinning globe of YouTube celebrities, YouTube rumors, and the people who watch.
Even after their breakup, Wellens and Smith still co-run the popular YouTube channel BFvsGF, where they compete against each other in challenges like who can drink the most soda and who can train a cat. They have more than 9.4 million subscribers.
In their breakup statement — which, with nearly 14 million views, is still the channel’s most popular video — the pair admit they were reluctant to go public with the news. “There’s gonna be so many people who come to this video, and they don’t care about us,” Smith says. “They just want gossip and drama, they want to capitalize off of it."
On YouTube, drama is guaranteed to get clicks, and no one understands that better than YouTubers themselves. That doesn’t necessarily mean vloggers are scrambling to get themselves involved in the next YouTube scandal. An emerging class of tabloid reporters online have realized they can capitalize on the clicks just as easily from the outside, by creating gossip-specific channels. Like the magazine and TV tabloids that paved their way, these channels have become the de facto record of YouTube’s celebrity class. Their tuned-in hosts track the site’s main players and their supporting characters diligently, and profit from an audience eager to hear their perspectives.
As it has for game reviewers, beauty bloggers, and comics, YouTube has leveled the playing field for the tabloid reporter. Most of the popular channels are operated by amateurs. All you need to become a gossip sleuth, they’ve proven, is a YouTube channel, time, and a lot of enthusiasm.
If this sounds familiar, it’s because the gossip-vlogger model evolved from the popularity of the online gossip media network, TMZ — another relative upstart to the tabloid industry. In both form and style, TMZ set a precedent for its YouTube contemporaries.
In 2014, BuzzFeed reporter Anne Helen Peterson wrote that TMZ was a “unique and controversial mix of scandal mongering and investigative journalism.” She notes that the publication never covers feel-good events like red carpets or weddings, and instead chooses to focus on scandals, fights, and embarrassments. Peterson reports that TMZ’s manic headline style emerged in 2006, about a year after its launch, because readers seemed to prefer the style to straightforward headlines.
In recent years, the brand has honed a digital language, hawking headlines like “KATE HUDSON Fashion Line Ex-Employee Sues …I WAS FIRED FOR GOING TO REHAB!” The syntax feels like it was constructed solely to appeal to the basest parts of the human brain and search engines. The site found success by catering to this kind of clickbait-reader, and by covering celebrities with a speed print mags couldn’t compete with. But now TMZ has a new challenger — at least when it comes to an appetite for drama — in YouTube channels.
In an interview with Nylon about how fame has changed in the past decade, former Hills reality star Spencer Pratt says, “Everyone is a celebrity now. Back [in the 2000s], you were either on a television show or you were in all the tabloids, and those were the two ways you could find fame unless you were a well-known musician or actor.”
But that double-track has expanded into a massive highway, thanks to self-publishing tools like YouTube and other social media platforms. And so the evolutionary trait of YouTube tabloids is granularity. With hundreds of aspiring gossip-hounds combing the platform for drama — down to the happenings of tiny subcommunities — it might not make sense for a single publisher to invest time in a competition.
TMZ pioneered this granular, obsessive coverage when it came to reality stars and D-list celebrities. Now YouTube tabloids comb the internet for gossip about YouTube pranksters, vegans, and amateur food reviewers.
There’s too much drama on YouTube to keep up with, even for people deeply embedded in the community. Too many relationships. Too many fans. Too much off-camera action. As a result, YouTube tabloids have diversified to serve distinct audiences. The biggest differentiators of gossip channels are the hosts. Philip DeFranco tries to position himself as an objective, buttoned-up talk show host, even though his eponymous show is all about his take on the biggest names in YouTube drama. He has 5.4 million subscribers. (For comparison, TMZ reaches around 3.2 million people each month, according to the data analytics firm Quantcast.) Scarce, with 2.8 million followers, sometimes intercuts YouTube drama stories with clips of video game play. Keemstar is the YouTuber behind the show DramaAlert, a one-stop-shop for all YouTube-related in-fighting. His channel has more than 1.8 million subscribers. Smaller niches have comparably sized channels. Sanders Kennedy, with 173,000 subscribers, and Karina Kaboom, with just 55,000, both focus on the drama of beauty vloggers.
Each of these channels is packaged to appeal to a specific kind of viewer. DeFranco’s The Philip DeFranco Show and Keemstar’s DramaAlert are styled after anchored news shows. Keemstar has an opening sequence with a spinning-globe logo; DeFranco sits, late-night-style, on a couch, as he comments on the week’s news. Their videos are usually broken into segments, but if something major happens — like when Casey Neistat announced he was ending his daily vlog — they’ll dedicate an entire video to it.
Keemstar’s platform might be modern, but his method is classic tabloid. He tends to model the vocal gymnastics of ‘90s shock jocks, stretching his vowels as if every word he says could be “KA-blam!” His sources, when he has them, are often anonymous. He moves quickly from one rumor or beef to the next, giving viewers just enough information to understand his caustic burns.
Recent DramaAlert titles have flagrantly swiped TMZ’s style:
“Andy Milonakis vs EpicFiveTV #DramaAlert Social Climber EXPOSED!”
“PewDiePie was GAY But Changed His Mind #DramaAlert YouTube Trending Page EXPOSED!”
“Sam Pepper & Zoie burgher Upset some Fans!” #DramaAlert Banana Girl & Twitch Fails!
Beauty-gossip vloggers like Kennedy and Kaboom are working under more rigid thematic constraints — they’re not going to make a video about Casey Neistat, no matter what he does — but sometimes constraint can be a useful curation device. Although Kennedy does document various beauty-vlogger tiffs, he spends a lot of time focusing on legal issues between vloggers and makeup companies. In a video about a cosmetics company filing a dispute against Jeffree Star and MannyMUA over the use of a logo, Kennedy reads a tweet by Star that says “Stop hyping up drama.” Kennedy looks at the camera, laughs, and says, “I’m sorry, but this is my job.”
“YouTubers are becoming basically celebrities,” Sanders told The Verge. “These influencers are signing contracts with makeup companies and technology companies for millions of dollars these days. I see them as a new form of celebrity, so why not talk about them like celebrities?”
A channel’s popularity often comes down to viewer preference. Gossip fans are overwhelmed with options, given how quickly the mini-industry has ballooned over the past decade. Keemstar didn’t launch Drama Alert until 2014 (seven years after The Philip DeFranco Show first aired) but Keemstar’s fan base grew much more rapidly than DeFranco’s. In just 10 months, Drama Alert had more than 300,000 subscribers, according to We The Unicorns.
The big-name players in the tabloid industry still aren’t participating in the YouTube drama market. Glossy tabloids like InTouch and US Weekly seem reluctant to move aggressively into the world of internet celebrity. Even on Us Weekly’s YouTube channel, where nü-celebrity coverage might be more palatable, the tabloid sticks to Katie Holmes, Kristen Bell, and the Kardashians.
US Weekly isn’t alone in avoiding YouTuber coverage, online or off. Star Magazine’s recent YouTube uploads are about Prince Harry, Zayn Malik, and Kourtney Kardashian. OK! Magazine did recently publish a story about the Total Divas star, WWE wrestler, and YouTuber Nikki Bella — but only to announce her engagement to WWE wrestler John Cena. In Touch Weekly, which tends to cover reality show stars like A-listers, has only mentioned YouTubers when their star power moves them off-platform — like when makeup vlogger MannyMUA became the first-ever male brand ambassador for Maybelline. In Touch passed on a request for comment.
It’s difficult to say whether tabloids will ever catch on to the YouTube audience, or if they even want to. “I don’t see it as terribly competitive at this point,” Steve Jones, co-founder of the Association of Internet Researchers and University of Illinois at Chicago professor, says of the two markets. “[YouTube gossip] seems more like an add-on if you’re interested specifically in these folks. It seems like a way to hear another group of voices, rather than compete directly [with tabloids].”
But even if YouTube vloggers aren’t exactly stealing tabloids’ readership, they still have a monopoly on an endless well of gossip at a time when traditional tabloids are stumbling. US Weekly readership in particular has been unstable in recent years. The New York Times reports that from 2015 to 2016, the magazine experienced a “30 percent decline in newsstand sales.” In March, US Weekly’s parent company Wenner Media sold the publication to National Enquirer-owner American Media Inc. In the aftermath of the deal, AMI reportedly laid off around 40 US Weekly employees.
According to Celebrity Net Worth, Keemstar is worth $1.4 million. Philip DeFranco has a net worth of $4 million. And while many vloggers seem to have no interest in covering the world outside YouTube, DeFranco has recently started covering the Trump administration.
Just as TMZ broke from journalistic norms to achieve success, YouTube channels are pushing the boundaries of what’s acceptable — and legal. Many YouTube tabloid hosts have no formal training in journalism, and don’t identify as journalists or press.
Sanders Kennedy is an outlier in this respect. Before becoming a full-time YouTuber, he worked at the celebrity entertainment site DosLives.com, where he learned to source his stories and hedge rumors.
“A lot of people think that when I say the word ‘allegedly,’ I’m being over the top,” he says. “It's like, ‘No, I have to say allegedly. It's a rumor.’ When you put something out as fact and it’s not fact, that could be seen as a legal issue. And [using phrases like] ‘sources say’ has really saved me from legal action.”
Sanders told me in the three-plus years he’s being vlogging, he’s never run into any legal trouble, or even threats of it. Keemstar, on the other hand, hasn’t been so lucky. His style of humor is built on controversy; he’s been known to casually toss off a rape joke or make light of slavery. One Change.org petition claims that Keemstar habitually harasses other YouTubers. The YouTube video “Exposing Keemstar as a Fraud,” which summarizes Keemstar’s alleged wrongdoings, is just one of several anti-Keem clips. Keemstar declined to be interviewed for this piece.
It’s not just viewers who question Keemstar’s methods — it’s other YouTubers. “Please help me sue Keemstar” says Onision (also known as UhOhBro) in response to one DramaAlert video. Onision had recently launched a crowdfunding Patreon page because he wasn’t making enough money from YouTube; he told fans he was going to have to sell his house. On DramaAlert, Keemstar insisted that Onision didn’t even have a mortgage to pay, and that his Patreon was a scam. In retaliation, Onision made the aforementioned lawsuit video, in which brought out boxes of mortgage bills to show his viewers. “DramaAlert, I need a public apology for you spreading false information about me,” Onision says to the camera. “Immediately.”
Keemstar never apologized. Onision, it seems, never sued Keemstar anyway.
But Keemstar has been forced to retract stories and apologize in the past. Last year, DramaAlert reported a story that an elderly Twitch streamer was actually a sex offender who had been recently released from prison. Except the Twitch streamer turned out to be a different man entirely, who was now being harassed online by hundreds of righteous DramaAlert viewers. Once he realized his mistake, Keemstar posted an apology video in which he promised to vet his stories more thoroughly in the future. “I was so proud of how successful my show was becoming,” he says in the video. “But now as I sit here in front of you, I don’t feel proud at all. I feel ashamed.”
In the past, when tabloids would wade into tricky ethical territory, they’d do so behind some kind of pre-established editorial boundaries. And if a story went sour, there were lawyers on hand to deal with the fallout. But YouTube’s gossip vloggers are largely on their own when it comes to making publishing decisions.
And that fallout? YouTube is grappling with it as a business. Because the company has no way to control what its users say in their videos, it can really only intervene after it receives complaints. Many vloggers think YouTube has started to intentionally suppress controversial videos, even as it doesn’t issue explicit takedowns for them. Google recently started allowing advertisers to opt out of placing ads on “controversial” content on YouTube, which led to a huge backlash from creators (including gossip vloggers) complaining that their ad revenue had suddenly dropped. YouTube did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Keemstar recently tweeted asking fans if they would consider paying for DramaAlert exclusives. Some of his followers suggested he should move his show over to Vid.Me, an ad-free YouTube knockoff where viewers have the option to leave a tip under each video. But Keemstar quickly dismissed the idea, comparing Vid.Me to “an 8-year-old’s birthday party.”
Because even as YouTube alienates its gossip reporters, it’s still the most logical platform for them to use. YouTube is still where the audience is, where other creators are, and where the drama is.
A few days after tweeting about possible subscription fees, Keem announced he wasn’t going to ask fans to pay for content, even though he was making DramaAlert “for free, practically.” He said he was going to earn money by creating a new video game and promoting it on YouTube. It’s a natural platform for him — he’s already famous there. How long that fame will last is another story. “[Fame] can occur more rapidly now to people who, in the past, wouldn’t have had much of a shot at it at all,” says Steve Jones, the UIC professor. “But it can also leave much more quickly.”
As YouTube’s relationship with its creators gets more contentious, its biggest stars have leveraged their fame into Netflix writing gigs and multimillion-dollar deals with CNN. Once they’ve hit that level, are they even really YouTube celebrities anymore? And can gossip vloggers justify coverage of these new sitcom stars and CNN reporters with the argument that they once, years ago, ran popular YouTube channels?
For decades, tabloids have grappled with shifts in coverage, as beloved celebrities fell from the public eye. But YouTube’s gossip vloggers are going to have to figure out what to do once their celebrities fall even further into it.
Microsoft has started posting E3 teaser videos for its Project Scorpio unveiling on Sunday. While the minute-long teasers look innocent, some of them include hidden messages. Twitter users have discovered that one particular teaser includes a “6>4” hidden next to a Ferris wheel. The 6 is greater than 4 message is clearly a references to the 6 teraflops of power in the Xbox Project Scorpio console compared to Sony’s PlayStation 4 Pro with around 4 teraflops of power.
In another teaser posted yesterday, there’s a "X10S101-317” message displayed on a stage with a crowd of people. Microsoft typically uses this type of date format for its Windows and Xbox software builds, so if you separate out the X10S to refer to the console, then the remaining 101317 could mean October 13th. Windows Central points out this is a Friday, a typical console release day. The X10S could mean anything, but it does come just a few days after Microsoft filed a trademark for a mysterious S logo that’s related to gaming.
Microsoft posted another teaser today that doesn’t appear to include a hidden message, but not every teaser has so far. Either way, Microsoft has consistently used similar marketing for its Project Scorpio with cut outs in the font it uses. This same font can be seen in both the trademarked S logo and the teasers Microsoft is posting to Facebook and Twitter this week. Microsoft has a history of creating teasers and games for its Xbox announcements, including the famous I Love Bees alternate reality game for Halo 2. Microsoft is planning to unveil its Project Scorpio console this Sunday at 2PM PT / 5PM ET.
The Museum of Modern Art in New York City is hosting the first US-based solo exhibit from artist Ian Cheng: a live simulation known as the “Emissary trilogy.” In addition to the physical installation, the museum is also streaming “unique versions that exist online only” via Twitch. The second piece, Emissary Forks At Perfection, began streaming yesterday and is available to watch until July 24th.
Twitch is best known as a platform widely used by the gaming community, and the partnership with MoMA reflects that. The Emissary trilogy creates its simulation through the use of a video game engine; Cheng describes it as “a video game that plays itself.” The exhibit is an exploration of the human consciousness and evolution.
The stream is available on Twitch and MoMA’s website, and the exhibit runs until September 25th. The final piece, Emissary Sunsets the Self, runs from August 8th to September 25th.
For those who can make it to the museum, the actual exhibit features 10-foot projections as part of its large-scale installation. Viewers are invited to “follow the lives of specific characters as they interact within the simulated worlds and each other in an ever-changing environment.”
People looking to experience the concept more in-depth can also download Everything on PlayStation 4. The game — another evolution-based idea that can play itself — was featured as an art exhibit at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.


Cars have become expensive, rolling gadgets that are full of screens, speakers, and sensors — but are they actually good gadgets? In our new series, ScreenDrive, we'll review cars just like any other device, starting with the basics of what they’re like to use.
The construction workers on 59th Street loved to stare. During my day of driving the Rolls-Royce Dawn around, I took the car through three boroughs — Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Queens — and stopped people in their tracks in each one. A construction worker in the city looked back at me while I was stopped at a red light. I saw him whisper to his co-worker, and then he turned around, too. That guy said something aloud, and the rest of the team swiveled their heads to sneak a peek. I don’t blame them for staring; the Dawn’s a rare, attractive car that starts at $341,125; the model I drove costs $412,430. For that price, you’d maybe think I got a look at the future of driving tech in addition to a top-of-line, eye-catching ride. That’s not the case.
No, instead, Rolls-Royce played it safe. The company says its drivers own multiple cars, and their Rolls isn’t for everyday driving. It’s a status symbol in which most people are probably driven around. So, with that in mind, the company has taken a muted approach to its car tech. People flaunt the Dawn for its gorgeous exterior and interior details, not the number of cameras it has installed or its groundbreaking tech — at least that’s how Rolls-Royce seems to see it. Still, maybe some people want the option of more tech, like screens installed in the backs of the front seat headrests, or even Android Auto and Apple CarPlay (neither of which is available on the Dawn). Rolls-Royce doesn’t offer these add-ons and instead limits its tech risks by sticking with features that it knows will probably work fine and not anger anyone.
The Dawn succeeds insomuch as it fails. If you want tons of tech, this isn’t the car for you. But if you’re okay with spending $400,000 for a handcrafted, Bluetooth-equipped vehicle, the Dawn does the trick.
The Dawn features a heads-up display; a 10.25-inch, 1280 x 720 non-touchscreen center console display; and a smaller LED display, called the Driver Information Panel, beneath the instrument cluster. This screen shows the same information as the HUD, including the area’s speed limit, upcoming directions, and phone calls. As I mentioned, the car doesn’t support Apple CarPlay or Android Auto; it only pairs with phones over Bluetooth. Barely any apps are installed, meaning there’s no Pandora or SoundHound or whatever else car manufacturers preload. I hate apps, so for me, this was fine. I do know some people are loyal Pandora listeners, though, and maybe they’d want it natively built into the car. I appreciated the fact that I didn’t have to fuss over extraneous apps and tech, like inconsistent gesture controls or instructional videos that teach me how to operate everything. I understood how to drive and operate the Dawn by just getting inside.
The most unique aspect of the Dawn’s main display is that you can’t control it through touch. I’m intrigued by this decision since carmakers haven’t reached a consensus on what drivers like best. In the Dawn’s case, it didn’t take me long to get used to not being able to poke at the screen and instead having to rely on a controller. I could write on the touch-sensitive controller or use my voice to input addresses, in addition to rotating it or pushing separate buttons. From this display, you can access eight menus that include the radio, multimedia, phone, navigation, vehicle info, settings, “office,” and apps. The feel of the software — the maps in particular — look and feel like BMW’s iDrive. (This makes sense considering the company bought Rolls-Royce in 1998, meaning the smaller British outpost has access to all of BMW’s software and engineers.)
This non-touchscreen risk proved successful, although I can’t say the same about the company’s odd choice of including a smaller screen beneath the instrument panel.
I don’t fully understand what the Driver Information Panel is designed to do. You can choose to display the HUD information there instead, but I find the windshield infinitely more preferable because you don’t have to look away from the road. The bottom display can show your lane control settings and whether you have night vision on or off (which the HUD won’t), as well as mileage. Yes, the Dawn includes night vision with pedestrian detection. I didn’t test it much during my drive, but it seems more like a gimmick than an actually useful application. Although, with that said, New York City has lots of lights.
As is the case with all cars, the heads-up display once again proved indispensable. It displayed the area’s speed limit, upcoming directions, and phone call details. The HUD refreshed promptly, except for a few times when it froze up after I tried to hang up a call. This was frustrating because I then had to grab my phone to make sure the call was disconnected. This happened more than once. I didn’t notice any lag time on the main display. Even still, the HUD got me where I wanted to go and let me focus on the road ahead.
Like I said, not having a touchscreen wasn’t a huge issue. You can turn, write on, or tap the Spirit of Ecstasy Rotary Controller, as Rolls-Royce calls it, to navigate the menus. (Rolls-Royce incorporated its signature Spirit of Ecstasy ornament into the controller by re-creating it with crystal and solid silver and then embedding it.) Using the controller wasn’t difficult or overly laborious except when I had to input an address. The dialer picked up on all my drawn letters, but I often opted for voice controls. The car assistant has the voice of a British woman, which I enjoyed — a cheery accent really does make you like your car a bit more. The Dawn always recognized my voice with no comprehension issues, although I did struggle to select a phone number. I have multiple numbers under one of my friend’s name, for example, so the Dawn asked me to select a row number for the number I wanted to call. The car doesn’t actually enumerate the rows, though; it expects you to count them, which is hard to do while driving. Also it doesn’t show these rows on the HUD, so if you’re trying to call someone while you’re driving, you’ll have to look over at the main display. Smaller buttons surround the controller to let you quickly switch between the radio, CD player, your phone, and navigation. These could be useful, but I often forgot which button was for what. I also had a hard time locating them while driving because I had to reach over the controller to get to them. There’s also larger buttons for going back or hiding the display beneath a wood panel.
The steering wheel includes a volume control wheel and a strange, vertical-button-control-wheel-thing that lets you either change tracks on your paired phone or the radio station. You can turn and push down on it, although it really felt like it should only be able to do one or the other. The volume controls are also slanted and small, which made me prefer the knob on the center console. To the left of the steering wheel, you can adjust the brightness of the screens with a random control wheel. As much as I was surprised by its existence, I appreciated the convenience because it let me to avoid the settings menu entirely. The less I have to purposely seek out and interact with software, the better. And generally, Rolls-Royce makes it easy to avoid fuddling around with its displays and interface.
As I mentioned above, Rolls-Royce shares software resources with BMW, so for that reason, the tech feels similar to any iDrive-equipped car. The menu layout that depicts your options as icons to scroll through, the settings page, and even the pairing page all look like direct descendents of iDrive. The navigation is nearly identical to iDrive, too, and as I wrote about the 2017 5 Series, the layout and directions are intuitive. It’s a clean interface. During this testing round, I wasn’t impressed with the points of interest option. The system didn’t recognize or know where the Whitney or Jane Hotel were, which are two places I’d expect people to look up. For some reason, zooming in on a map wasn’t intuitive either. I simply turned the controller to zoom, but it didn’t immediately seem like the proper way to do so. Similarly to my major gripe with the new BMW 5 Series, I was unable to get messages from my iPhone to load on the display, even when I turned notifications on from my Bluetooth options. I’ve been told it should have worked, although I might need a special cradle, which costs more than $200. That’s annoying, but maybe not so much in a $400,000 car. Apparently BlackBerry SMS works over Bluetooth for all of you classic BlackBerry users. Heh.
I still find this messaging difficulty inexcusable. Navigation, phone calls, music, and messages are essential for modern driving. I just want to see my texts without an added cost. As an aside, the icons on the Dawn are oddly outdated, too. The radio icon looks like a radio from the 1950s or something, which, okay, I guess that’s a novelty.
The Dawn goes up in price depending on how you deck out the interior and exterior. On my model, the white paint job costs an extra $10,650. The custom interior cost more than $10,000 — contrast stitching alone costs $4,200. Lighting up the Spirit of Ecstasy ornament costs another $4,125.
The pricing of the packages speaks to how Rolls-Royce conceptualizes the Dawn. The majority of extra costs relate to interior and exterior details with no mention of tech. The heads-up display, Bluetooth pairing, and main console display are included in the base price. You don’t get many options for extra tech, other than night vision and active cruise control for $7,430. That’s okay, though, because let’s be real: everyone looks silly using gesture controls, and you want to look cool in your Dawn.
Rolls-Royce assumes you aren’t buying its car for the tech. That’s probably true. Instead, the Dawn is a collector’s item that will still look awesome in 2080, especially if you don’t have any outdated tech to age it.
Today, NASA is announcing to the world its newest class of astronauts at the space agency’s Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. This is the new group of people who could potentially fly on brand-new vehicles into lower Earth orbit or into deep space one day. Around a dozen lucky and incredibly talented humans will join the ranks of the astronaut corps this afternoon, which currently boasts 44 people who are eligible for flight assignments.
The newest class was handpicked from more than 18,300 hopefuls who applied between December 2015 and February 2016 — the highest amount of submissions NASA has ever received during an open call. Before this, around 8,000 was the record for most submissions in 1978. To be picked, people have to meet a certain set of criteria — such as having a bachelor’s degree in a STEM field or experience flying jet aircraft — and then go through rounds of interviews. So today’s new astronauts have gone through a lot to get to this point.
And this latest class may have the chance to ride on some entirely novel spacecraft that are currently in development. As of now, the only ride astronauts have is the Russian Soyuz rocket, which ferries people to and from the International Space Station. But both SpaceX and Boeing are working on vehicles — the Dragon and CST-100 Starliner, respectively — that will be able to take astronauts to the ISS; those are slated to start flying as early as 2018. Plus, NASA is also developing the Orion crew capsule, designed to carry people into deep space when launched on top of a new rocket called the Space Launch System; that vehicle is slated to start carrying people in the 2020s. After two years of training, the new astronaut class could be assigned to any of these new spacecraft.
Today’s announcement gets underway at 2PM ET, and it’s shaping up to be a dynamic show. Vice President Mike Pence will even be in attendance in Houston. So check back here this afternoon to see who made the cut.

If you were listening to Apple’s keynote address at the Worldwide Developer’s Conference this week, you might have walked away thinking that this is the year (and the version of iOS) that Siri finally feels like a capable digital assistant.
Apple announced it was adding a new visual interface to its digital assistant, the ability to handle follow-up questions, and even language translation. Siri is also getting a new voice completely generated by machine learning algorithms. SiriKit, the development tool that lets third-party companies integrate with Siri, is becoming more robust, too. You’ll be able to type to Siri in iOS 11, and, of course, the assistant underpins Apple’s newest product, its HomePod speaker.
What Apple failed to mention was whether it’s done anything to fix Siri’s biggest problem — understanding your spoken requests.
Voice recognition has been the biggest drag on Siri since the assistant’s introduction in 2011. Too often, Siri whiffs when it tries to interpret your commands. And even when it gets that part right, there’s a good chance Siri only gets you halfway to an answer before it crashes headlong into its own limitations. If that’s still going to be the case, more results won’t be enough to make it useful. Neither will a smoother voice.
Google’s Assistant and Amazon’s Alexa aren’t perfect, but they consistently handle more advanced requests better than Siri. This is due, in part, to how Apple has lagged behind in building out its artificial intelligence efforts. Apple’s tendency for secrecy has reportedly scared away some of the best minds in AI out of fear that there’s no chance for recognition in Cupertino.
Now, if Apple catches up on AI, WWDC might be where it turned the corner. There’s reason to believe it’s finally serious about AI thanks to Core ML, and what developers take away from this conference could help shape the company’s future efforts. But Apple still didn’t bother to mention what it’s doing to fix Siri’s fatal flaw.
What Apple did instead was signal how it might try to get around those shortcomings: by changing what it considers Siri to be in the first place.
“In iOS 11, Siri does so much more in learning how you’re using your device,” Apple’s software SVP Craig Federighi said onstage, before explaining with a demo. Federighi opened the Apple News app after reading about Iceland in Safari, and Siri surfaced stories about the country that he might like to read. When he jumped to iMessage for a mock conversation about traveling there, Siri suggested new, Icelandic vocabulary that it had pulled from those articles.
It didn’t stop there. Federighi briefly flashed a slide that teased some things Apple wants developers to focus on with SiriKit, full of terms like “photo search,” “workouts,” and “QR codes.” Another short demo showed Siri populating a notification about an upcoming flight. The new scrolling set of cards on watchOS 4 that splices photo memories in between the weather, traffic, and the day’s scheduled events? Siri.
These sound like useful features, but they are far from what we considered Siri to be since Apple bought the company behind it in 2010, which is a digital assistant that we interact with directly. Many of them have nothing to do with talking (or typing) to Siri. In fact, Siri wasn’t spoken to once during the entire keynote.
Apple has been slowly building to this for a while, starting with things like “Siri app suggestions,” a row of icons in the Spotlight screen that changes based on which app your phone thinks you want to use. But now the company appears ready to apply that thinking broadly, using the Siri brand as a catchall for machine learning tricks that are starting to become standard on smartphones.
If you buy Apple’s marketing, this is a major evolution of Siri. Really though, it helps mitigate the risk associated with Siri’s biggest shortcoming, because it means you’ll have all new ways of obliquely interacting with the assistant that don’t require voice recognition. But even if it alleviates that pressure, the move opens up a new attack vector on Siri, because none of these new features that Apple showed off seem to surpass what competitors like Google, Amazon, or Microsoft are already doing with their own AI efforts.
So where does that leave what we once thought of as Siri? In August of last year, Apple told the world that Siri was finally ready to strut its stuff. Two months later, though, die-hard users were still finding the experience disappointing. These next few months leading up to (and beyond) the next iPhone release feel like another one of those moments of truth. We’ll either have more reasons to be frustrated by Siri, or things will finally turn around.
Apple obviously feels confident enough in their digital assistant to put it front and center on every device; it even went so far as to build a whole piece of hardware around it with HomePod. When iOS 11 updates roll out to a billion devices, and the HomePod starts arriving in people’s living rooms, we’ll see if Siri has managed to catch up to the competition, or if it continues to leave users with the impression that Apple doesn’t have a handle on today’s cutting-edge AI.
Ben Popper contributed to this piece.





Nyko is teaming up with Samsung as an officially licensed partner to build controllers and accessories, and its first product is here to enhance your VR experience by offering a controller that you can conveniently keep with your headset when it’s not in use.
The controller is the PlayPad VR, designed to work with Samsung’s Gear VR headset. And while it may look like Nyko is trying to strap a controller to your face, the PlayPad VR simply attaches to the front of the Gear VR for storage when not in use, replacing the usual plastic cover. (When in use, that spot will continue to be taken up by a smartphone serving as a display.)
The PlayPad VR is otherwise a fairly standard Bluetooth gamepad. It offers a D-pad, two joysticks, four shoulder buttons, and is compatible with Android’s built-in controller support, so most games should just work out of the box. And like the Galaxy S8, it charges via USB-C, so you’ll be able to use a single cable for everything.
The PlayPad VR will be available later this year for $49.99.
In the first 30 years of mobile phone development, tech companies worked to make them smaller. Then, with the advent of the smartphone, we hit an inflection point where the size of the screen outweighed the portability of the device, and the race to miniaturize our smartphones came to an end. When it comes to the evolution of consumer camera drones, we’re in the early stages of experimenting with how small these gadgets can be while still delivering worthwhile results.
DJI’s Phantom 4 came out in March 2016. Six months later it released the Mavic Pro, which was about half the weight and, with its folding design, less than half the size. Eights months after that, and DJI’s latest drone, the $499 Spark, halves the size and weight of the already slim Mavic. If things keep up at this rate, DJI will be able to cram a full payload of its advanced sensors, stabilizers, and camera into a drone the size of a matchbox by Christmas of this year.
To deliver this form factor, however, DJI had to do something it’s never done before: compromise on performance. While the Mavic was much smaller than the Phantom 4, it actually packed more range and advanced flight features, while nearly matching the camera stabilization and speed. The Spark is the first DJI drone that clearly offers less range and lower image quality than units that came before, a trade-off that keeps its size and price to a minimum.
The big question is: does the Spark deliver a great experience? Having spent a week and half with the unit, I can say the answer is a definite yes. It makes getting in the air and capturing photos and video drop-dead simple in a way no drone, DJI or otherwise, has managed to do before. Pulling it out of your pocket, powering it on, and launching it from your palm takes about 10 seconds total. There’s no need to bother pairing it with a remote or a mobile app — just raise your hand up, and it will go into gesture control mode. From there you can send it flying about 20 feet away and start snapping aerial photographs. That is incredibly liberating and fun. Do it in front of someone and they will inevitably ask, “Can I try that?”
Is the Spark for everybody? Probably not. If you make your living taking photos and video, the Spark probably won’t deliver the quality you’re looking for. And if you already own a nice camera drone, especially something small like the DJI Mavic, the Spark doesn’t add much to your arsenal. But for anyone who has been thinking of getting a drone but was put off by price or complexity, this is the unit to buy.
Like all DJI drones, the Spark’s basic performance was excellent. The battery delivered between 12–15 minutes of flight time in my testing, depending on wind conditions and how aggressively I was flying. More importantly, the amount of power never dropped off suddenly, and the battery stayed firmly in the drone. The battery takes about 40–50 minutes to go from dead to full with the dedicated wall charger. If you don’t want to lug that along on your next vacation, you can also charge it with a standard Micro USB cable, but be warned: charging is much slower that way.
There’s a vision sensor on the belly of the aircraft, and in my testing, the Spark could definitely hold its position indoors. But, you need to be aware that buildings, especially big metal ones, wreak havoc on the internal compass of your drone, so plan to calibrate your compass in a more amenable spot beforehand.
Now, while the Spark is great at hovering in one place indoors, due to its small size, the Spark has to work overtime to stay in one place against even moderate wind. Flying outdoors on a windy day is going to cut down on your battery life and, since it’s a two-axis gimbal, some of that sideways movement will show up in your footage in a way that wouldn’t happen with a Phantom or Mavic.
The simplest way to fly the drone is with gesture control. Double tap on the power button and it will scan for your face, then take off. This worked really well and made it easy to fly in areas that might otherwise have been tricky to launch from. If you extend your palm in front of your face a few feet from the Spark, it will recognize your posture and enter gesture control. You can sweep your hand up, down, left, and right to control its movement. This worked very well in my testing. You can also walk forward or backward and the drone will keep its distance by moving with you.
The more advanced elements of gesture control were really fun when they worked, but a little bit less reliable. If you wave one hand like you’re saying goodbye, the Spark will fly away and up to a distance of about 20 feet. From there you can make a square around your face with your forefingers and thumb like an old Hollywood director checking the frame. That instructs Spark to snap a photo. Finally, to bring it home, you make a big Y with your arms above your head. I got all these commands to work, but I often had to repeat them multiple times. I still haven’t figured out exactly what the right posture or movement is to make sure the Spark gets it every time.
If you want to go beyond the photos and distances offered by gesture mode, you need to pair the Spark with the DJI Go 4 mobile app. The unit puts off a Wi-Fi network and in my testing it was simple to find and connect to. Once you’ve got the app open, you can see a live video feed from the drone’s camera. You can fly using your thumbs on the screen; in my testing, the unit responded quickly and precisely to these digital controls.
If thumbsticks are too challenging, the Spark offers a couple other options for piloting. There is TapFly mode, where you simply click on the screen to indicate which direction the unit should go. The Spark, despite its small size, has sensors that allow it to detect and avoid obstacles when moving forward. You can use TapFly to get a lot done, but it’s less precise than a controller and the drone will often decline to move through tight spaces.
The Spark also has ActiveTrack, which uses computer vision to automatically follow a subject. When moving forward in this mode, the Spark will dodge obstacles. It can also trace alongside a subject or follow you moving backward, but in those cases the pilot needs to ensure it doesn’t smash into anything. The tracking works well, but it isn’t foolproof. If a person is moving among a crowd, say an athlete in a jersey on a field of teammates, the Spark can get confused and start following the wrong player.
The final option for piloting, and the one you’ll probably use most, is called Quickshot. The app offers four preprogrammed shots: a “dronie” mode that sends it flying up and away, a circle that moves around you at a fixed radius, a rocket that goes straight up, and a helix that moves in an ever-widening circle, making you the star of your own personal Michael Bay movie. Like ActiveTrack, these moves are all locked to a subject and can adjust to track them as they move through space.
In my testing Quickshots worked well, but they also highlighted the limitations of the Spark. When you fly it using a mobile app paired to your phone over Wi-Fi, the Spark’s range tops out at about 300 feet away and 150 feet up. When executing the dronie and the helix, both of which pull away from the subject, my unit lost its connection to my phone. Both times it was less than 300 feet away. Once, when flying near some large metal poles, I lost my connection at less than 50 feet.
Now these connectivity issues aren’t a knock on the Spark in particular. It’s something that happens with all Wi-Fi-connected drones, and was a regular occurrence when I was flying the Solo from 3D Robotics and the Bebop from Parrot. And the Spark always made the best of a bad situation, automatically returning home and landing safely. But for beginners, these moments — when your drone is hundreds of feet away or hovering over water and you suddenly lose your video signal and ability to control it — can be terrifying. And with just 16 minutes of battery life, these disconnects burn a lot of power that could have been better spent.
DJI is offering a $150 remote control that would extend the Spark’s range to over a mile and up your top speed to 31 miles per hour. Your best value, if you want to upgrade, is the Fly More Combo. That gets you the remote, extra battery, portable charging hub, and additional rotors and rotor guards for $699. Having this around to ensure connectivity and extend range sounds like a big improvement, if you don’t end up using the sticks to fly. But since the remote is not available for purchase yet, I won’t dwell on it in this review.
I would love to see a software update for the Spark that adds adaptive range. When the video signal starts to fail, meaning the drone is on the edge of losing its Wi-Fi connection with your phone, the unit should automatically move back into range of a strong connection. If it can continue executing a preprogrammed move while ensuring connection, even better. At the very least, perhaps it could pause at the limit of its connection and ask the user if they want to continue the shot or move back into range.
There are a couple other drones on the market that promise to launch and land from your hand, then automatically track a subject. One, the Hover Camera, is the same price as the Spark. But it has just eight minutes of battery life, a one-axis gimbal, performed terribly in wind, and, in our testing, did a poor job of actually finding and tracking people. Another, the Dobby, flies for just nine minutes and has no gimbal or obstacle avoidance at all.
I’ve been asked a dozen times over the last few years to recommend a drone for people who are interested in the hobby but aren’t sure if it’s for them. At $499, the Spark is exactly what they are looking for. It’s cheap, for a camera drone, and easy to use. You can get photos and video that are worth sharing on social media, albeit not quite professional quality. And you’ll get a sense of what you’re missing, leaving you the option to step up to a larger, more expensive unit if drone flying turns out to be something you enjoy.
Does that mean the Spark is the best drone you can get at this price? It depends what you’re looking for. At $499, the Spark is the same price as a Phantom 3 Standard. So you can get a drone with a three-axis gimbal that shoots 2.7K video, lasts 25 minutes on a single charge, and has range of over half a mile. Or you can get a drone that’s one-quarter the weight, far easier to transport, and launches from the palm of your hand, but offers less battery life, range, and video quality.
The ideal drone depends on what you’re after, and I would describe the Spark as the best starter drone on the market right now. It’s easy to carry around, simple to control, and safe to fly indoors and out, while retaining just enough oomph to capture imagery that will look absolutely epic on your social media feeds. For the casual drone user looking to get a taste of this technology without breaking the bank, there is no better option.

A few months ago, Apple offered a rare near-apology for the Mac Pro. “We designed ourselves into a bit of a corner,” said Craig Federighi, which is probably the best way to say it. Apple was so focused on whether it could put workstation components into a beautiful, tiny trash can form factor, that it never bothered to ask if it should.
But by the time Apple was coming to this obvious conclusion, it was already too late for me to care whether or not Apple can figure out how to build a modern desktop computer. I built my own Windows 10 PC late last year, and it's great. My budget was $1,000, and I went $100 over. My build's dominant cost was the graphics card, a GeForce 1070 which was a bit over $400 at the time. I skimped on the CPU (Core i5), got a too-small SSD (256GB), and only have 16GB of RAM. But I got what I wanted: a simple, white box that holds a GeForce 1070 and runs Overwatch, Visual Studio, the Unreal Engine editor, and Oculus VR perfectly.
I've owned Macs my entire life, but somewhere along the way my interests and Apple's diverged. I miss a lot of things about macOS when I’m creating stuff on my PC, but I also have no interest in setting cash on fire out of some misguided sense of loyalty or nostalgia.
This week, Apple finally announced a computer that can compete GPU-wise with my PC: a $2,299 iMac with a 5K display, 8GB of RAM, a Core i5 processor, and a Radeon Pro 580 graphics card. It sounds like the perfect machine for a well-paid video editor or graphics designer, but the built-in screen is more of a liability than an asset to anyone who wants to play games or build them. I'm ecstatic that Apple is putting discrete graphics cards in the iMac, but it's sad that I can barely get an upgrade to my current PC for double the cost.
Meanwhile, the upcoming iMac Pro is the first computer from Apple that can easily outcompete my $1,100 DIY machine's GPU. It starts at $4,999. It sounds amazing, with a new-generation Vega graphics card from AMD and up to an 18-core Xeon CPU. But I could never afford it; even if I could, I certainly wouldn't invest that much money into a machine with near zero upgradeability.
I'm not asking for an iPhone with replaceable RAM. I understand the value of a sleek, highly integrated, highly custom product. But if the most important and expensive part of the desktop computer you're looking to buy is the GPU, it's insane to choose one that's soldered to the motherboard.
So-called "enthusiast" users — gamers, game creators, VR dwellers, programmers — know exactly how much computer they can get for their money, and which components are the most valuable to them. I might've splurged on a GPU at the expense of all else, but someone else might want to emphasize the CPU and storage speed. I don't know anyone who has justified a 5K screen purchase to their boss, but I'm sure they exist, too.
Sadly, Apple refuses to provide choice to the exact customers who value it the most. Apple promises the next Mac Pro will be modular and upgradeable, which will be a great improvement, but if it still starts at $2,999, it's basically meaningless to people like me. Apple seems blind to the vast range of high-performance components that aren't called "Xeon" or "Radeon Pro," or price tags that start with the digit “1.” A $599 third-party GPU enclosure is a nice option for developers, but it’s not nearly enough.
Apple has a great history of serving working creative professionals, and these new iMacs certainly do that. But it's totally failing to serve the next generation of creative professionals. Twitch streamers, YouTubers, indie game developers, vaporwave 3D artists, machine learning tinkerers, live video performers — the up-and-comers. All of them can benefit from a good or great GPU. Only the most successful ones could ever consider buying a $2,999 Mac. So they buy PCs instead.
At this year's WWDC, Apple made important strides in software to support VR, AR, machine learning, and game development. But until it can build an affordable computer that can serve those purposes, it's barely a part of the conversation.
SpaceX has scored one of its biggest contracts yet with the US Air Force: launching the military’s secretive X-37B spaceplane on top of the company’s Falcon 9 rocket. The mission, set to happen sometime in August, will be the first one SpaceX does for the Air Force, as the company continues to break into the market of launching military spacecraft.
The mission was confirmed Tuesday at a hearing of the US Senate Armed Services Committee. “[The X-37B] will be going up again on top of a SpaceX launcher in August,” Air Force secretary Heather Wilson said at the hearing. SpaceX did not provide a comment on the news.
Built by Boeing, the X-37B is the Air Force’s reusable spaceplane that looks a bit like a mini Space Shuttle. It’s meant to launch into space on top of a rocket and then return to Earth by landing on a runway. As far as what the vehicle does, that’s anybody’s guess. The X-37B has a payload bay that carries up secretive spacecraft into orbit, perhaps to test out new surveillance technologies or communications capabilities. On its most recent trip, the vehicle spent 718 days in space, conducting “on-orbit experiments” such as testing a new thruster technology. It just returned to Earth last month, without any heads up from the Air Force.
So far the X-37B, also known as the Orbital Test Vehicle, has made four trips into orbit, each time launching on top of one of the United Launch Alliance’s Atlas V rockets. In fact, ULA has essentially been the sole launch provider for military satellites and vehicles over the last decade. Yet SpaceX has been making headway in this area. The company became certified to launch military payloads in 2015, a move by the Air Force to create competition and potentially lower launch costs. “Competition is reducing the cost of launch services,” Wilson said at the hearing. “Currently we’ve got two providers for medium and heavy launch.” Still, it’s unclear if cost is the primary reason for switching to the Falcon 9 for this next mission, but Wilson did tout the potential cost savings offered by the commercial space industry during the hearing.
Since its certification, SpaceX has been publicly awarded two contracts to launch GPS satellites for the Air Force — though those launches won’t take place until 2018 at the earliest. The company did, however, conduct its first national security launch in May, when it launched a satellite for the National Reconnaissance Office. The Air Force has even said it’s open to the idea of launching its satellites on used Falcon 9 rockets — one of SpaceX’s main initiatives to lower the cost of getting to space.


Apple’s newest mobile operating system, iOS 11, is primarily focused on turning the iPad into something resembling a desktop computer. You’ve got a dock for apps, a new file system, and features like drag and drop. But, not all of these changes are destined for the iPad only. The ability to drag and drop files, for example, is also coming to the iPhone.
There are limitations, though. According to tweets from developers at WWDC, Apple says drag and drop on the iPhone will only work within apps. There is a way to use it between apps (see below) but it seems this is a bug, rather than a feature. You can select multiple elements to drag and drop in iOS 11, but there’s no “spring loading.” (On macOS, this is when you pick up a file and hover over a folder and it opens automatically.)
iOS 11 supports drag & drop on iPhone   pic.twitter.com/DRte6fkPrg
Drag and drop is going to be particularly useful for the new Files app, which is also available on the iPhone. It’ll make it easier to organize items stored on your iPhone and iPad — everything from music and movies, to documents and presentations.
However, it’s worth remembering that iOS 11 is still in beta, and Apple can remove features if it wants to, including drag and drop. It might do this if it think it’s confusing on the iPhone. For example, think about all the gradations of touch interactions users now have to remember to use iOS 11 to its full potential. From Apple’s point of view, simpler might be better.
On the iOS 11 home screen:Short tap = openMedium tap = popover menuMedium hold = begin dragLong hold = enter rearrange mode
You’d think I’d be right on board with the HomePod, Apple’s Siri-powered speaker coming out later this year. I actually really like Apple Music as a service, and after buying a Google Home six months ago I’ve grown quite fond of talking to a speaker to tell it what song to play. Something with better sound quality and slicker execution should be an obvious purchase.
Well, the problem is I’ve already rolled my own Apple-speaker-with-smart-assistant solution, and I’m not convinced the HomePod will be much better.
The iPod Hi-Fi is one of Apple’s most maligned products. Unveiled with characteristic hubris at an overblown event, the $349 price was seen as wildly excessive at the time for what amounted to a glorified iPod dock. I loved the design, though, as well as its bassy, room-filling sound. I bought a used one for my bedroom last year because I just missed having it around.
Amazon’s Echo, meanwhile, is the product that defined the whole voice-assistant-speaker category that Apple just entered with the HomePod. It’s not available where I live, but I picked up a $50 Echo Dot when I was in the US for CES this past January. It’s a little microphone-equipped puck that plugs into any speaker and pretty much turns it into a better-sounding Echo.
See where I’m going with this? That’s right — my bedroom speaker is an Apple iPod Hi-Fi equipped with Amazon’s Alexa voice assistant. And it’s great! So great that I’m really not sure I’ll want to pick up a HomePod.
I think Apple was smart to focus the HomePod presentation on music. Everyone loves music, and positioning the HomePod as a smart, modern way to listen to your favorites gives the device a clear use case. Compare the muddled introduction of the Apple Watch to the confident, fitness-focused Series 2 announcement last year — it’s important to explain to people exactly why they might want a given product.
The problem is I have my doubts that the HomePod will be a better speaker than the iPod Hi-Fi. It’s way smaller, for one thing, and I am pretty suspicious of Apple’s claims about its audio processing. We’ve reported that it sounds good in a controlled demo, but who knows how that’ll translate to reality? It’s hard to imagine the HomePod reproducing the Hi-Fi’s thumping sound in such a small enclosure.
Related
But let’s give it the benefit of the doubt and assume its sound quality is on par with the Hi-Fi. Is Siri really going to be on par with Alexa at launch? I vastly prefer Alexa at this point, and it’s hard to see how Apple will catch up with its functionality and flexibility by the end of the year. The company certainly didn’t show much intent to open Siri up to a wider range of developers at WWDC, whereas it’s trivial to get Alexa working with Spotify and countless other services.
That said, the only reason I keep up my Spotify subscription at all is so that I can invoke songs by shouting at various speakers. The $349 HomePod — same price as the iPod Hi-Fi was in 2006, remember — would pay for itself in two and a half years if it got me to cancel Spotify. And maybe that’s the only way Apple can win me over — if its integrated approach results in a notably better experience.
That is, of course, the principle that drives Apple’s entire business model. From the iPhone to the MacBook Pro, the company justifies its high prices by positioning its products as experiences that you just can’t get from competitors. And that’s why I might end up getting a HomePod after all, even if I do own a better speaker with a better voice assistant plugged in. If nothing else, Apple is good at providing new experiences, and they’re rarely less than intriguing.
Free space is a perennial problem on many iPhones — especially those saddled with just 16GB of storage. To help address the problem in the upcoming iOS 11, Apple has introduced a few new tools for managing user data, including the option to automatically delete the apps you never use.
On iOS 11 the feature is called Offload Unused Apps. You can read a detailed breakdown of how it works here, but the gist of it is this: when storage is running low, the Offload feature removes little-used apps, but keeps their documents and data on your device. The deleted apps appear as grayed-out icons on the home screen, and can be reinstalled with a tap. When activated (on the iPhone go to Settings > General > iPhone Storage) the feature works automatically in the background, but users can also choose to offload individual apps of their choosing.
You can now “offload unused app” in iOS 11. It deletes the app binary, but keeps the documents and data. pic.twitter.com/X1b7eljXDR
As Tom Moss, co-founder of Android phone company Nextbit, pointed out on Twitter, this is the same idea his company implemented with its 2016 Robin smartphone. Right down to grayed-out icons marking gone-but-not-forgotten apps. However, it is worth pointing out that iOS 9 had a similar feature back in 2015 — although that was only for temporarily deleting apps while upgrading to a new operating system.
Thankfully, it’s not the only storage-saving feature Apple has introduced in iOS 11 either. Others, found in the same menu in Settings, are simply suggestions for clearing out recently deleted photos and moving data to iCloud, but there’s also a new “auto delete old conversations” feature that deletes data in the Messages app that’s more than a year old. You can also sort conversations by the amount of storage they take up, and delete them on an individual basis.
iOS 11 is currently available as a beta for developers, with a public beta due out at the end of the month, and a general release expected this autumn.
Also the iPhone Storage settings screen has been revamped to give you suggestions on how to save storage space #ios11 #wwdc17 pic.twitter.com/P1YY2KbLdQ
Apple will put its proprietary screen repair machines in hundreds of third-party locations by the end of 2017, making it easier for customers to fix cracked, damaged, or otherwise broken iPhone displays. Reuters reports that Apple will outfit some 400 authorized repair centers in 25 different countries with the machines, which it calls “Horizon.”
The move comes after eight US states raised legislation targeting tech companies’ proprietary and restrictive repair practices. Service procedures like the use of the Horizon Machine — which is used to validate the repair of screen breakages — are the target of so-called “right to repair” bills. Until now, the company only allowed the machines to be housed at its own stores, and did not formally acknowledge its existence.
Despite this pressure, Apple says that such legislation wasn’t the driving force in the adoption of its new program. "We've been on a quest to expand our reach," senior director of service operations Brian Naumann told Reuters, claiming that the move was inspired by increasing wait times for repairs at particularly busy Apple stores.
Apple allows authorized third-party repair centers to fix broken iPhones without voiding the devices’ warranty, but the Horizon Machines are required in some more serious cases. The machine is the only one that can install a replacement fingerprint sensor, for example, as other repair procedures won’t be able to tell the iPhone’s processor to accept the new hardware.
US repair provider ComputerCare announced two days ago that it was one of three third-party firms in the US selected as part of a new pilot to get new calibration machines and complete repairs on site. The first wave of Apple’s new plan reportedly goes further, aiming to install the Horizon machines in around 200 of its 4,800 authorized third-party repair providers, with another 200 planned to arrive before the end of the year. Among the first to receive the machines are Best Buy stores, including one in the Miami area, and one in Sunnyvale, California.
Reuters was able to see the Horizon Machine in action at a location in California, marking an apparent softening in Apple’s previously strict secrecy around the procedure. That secrecy may be due to the machines’ ability to access every part of the iPhone — rather than simply exchanging components, the machine can also connect to iOS itself and potentially give access to proprietary software. Apple (and other firms) lobbied against right to repair bills for this reason, saying that giving such machines to third-party vendors opened up its phones to hacker attacks.
But it could also be indicative of Apple’s previous desire to keep part of the lucrative repair industry to itself. Reuters notes that the company doesn’t specify how much it earns from screen repairs, but with standard procedures costing $129 without AppleCare+, analysts estimate it pulls in between $1 and $2 billion a year in revenue. That’s a significant chunk of the $4 billion in revenue the entire global screen repair industry is believed to generate annually, with manufacturers’ locked-down repair practices forcing third-party repair centers to use unauthorized parts.
As part of a previous pilot that began a year ago, machines are also in place at repair centers in London, Shanghai, and Singapore. Reuters says that centers in countries with no official Apple stores — including Colombia, Norway, and South Korea — will also be early recipients of the machines.
The first episode of Planet of the Apps — Apple’s Shark Tank-esque reality TV show about app developers — is now available on Apple Music and iTunes. Anyone will be able to watch the first episode via the company’s streaming service, but subsequent episodes will only be available to Apple Music subscribers, who’ll be able to keep up with the show every week.
The company premiered the episode tonight at its WWDC event in San Jose, before making it available on Apple Music for all at midnight ET. The show focuses on a collection of app developers, each of whom is trying to impress a panel made up of actors Jessica Alba and Gwyneth Paltrow, musician will.i.am, and entrepreneur Gary Vaynerchuk.
​He can transform far-out concepts into tangible reality. Catch @iamWill on #PlanetOfTheApps, only on @AppleMusic
A post shared by Planet of the Apps (@planetoftheapps) on Jun 6, 2017 at 6:30pm PDT
Apple announced that it was working on an unscripted reality TV show early last year, and clarified its intentions soon after. The company put out an open casting call for “100 of the world’s most talented app creators," who would be trying to pitch their app to the panel. A new trailer released tonight, shortly before the episode aired, detailed exactly how they’d be doing that — with a literal escalator pitch that gives contestants 60 seconds to explain their idea while being slowly brought down to the stage.
Just to really hammer home the app connection, the advisors then do a Tinder-like swipe left or right to specify whether they like the idea. Those who do get the nod will be funded so “they can take the next step to creating one of the great apps of all time.” Expect new episodes of the show — nine more of them after today’s premiere — to air on Tuesdays via Apple Music.
SpaceX successfully landed a Falcon 9 rocket for the 11th time ever this past weekend, and the company just released the first new footage of the feat. The short clip was shot in 4K resolution, and at 60 frames per second, so it offers a stellar view of the rocket landing right near the beach at Cape Canaveral.
The footage, apparently shot from a drone or nearby helicopter, shows the landing in great detail. You can even see the rocket kick up debris on the landing pad as it approaches the bullseye. And speaking of that, this landing was particularly on the money thanks to some clever thinking — SpaceX painted the target with “radio reflective paint,” which helped the rocket split the company’s trademark “X” down the middle, according to CEO Elon Musk.
This was the fifth time the company landed a rocket on solid ground. Most of its landings have come at sea, where the Falcon 9 rockets have to settle down on an autonomous barge. While SpaceX is consistently able to stick those landings, the early attempts at landing in the ocean were marked with explosions thanks to the sheer number of variables at play. But the company has stuck every single attempt to land a rocket at Cape Canaveral, dating all the way back to December 2015, when it landed its first.
Tesla’s shareholders voted this afternoon at their annual meeting against declassifying the electric car company’s board of directors. Critics have said that Tesla’s board is not independent enough, and that it’s filled with people who are incentivized to stay in CEO Elon Musk’s good graces. Declassifying would have made the directors subject to annual elections, but the outcome of the vote means the board will keep its staggered, three-year terms.
But, as is consistently the case with Tesla, Elon Musk stole the show when he came onstage to speak to the shareholders and answer questions from Twitter. Compared to how his loose lips have ignited some of his past speaking engagements, this one was surprisingly light on shock value. There were still a few interesting tidbits, though.
Musk first teased the Model Y in October 2015 when he tweeted, and then deleted, a short mention of the company’s forthcoming all-electric crossover SUV. He’s been light on details ever since, as the company has been focused on launching the Model X and Model 3. At the meeting today, though, he flashed what is our first glimpse of the Y.
There’s very little to go off of in that image, I know, but it appears in line with what Musk has said about the car. It will be a crossover, one that’s sized smaller than a Model X but bigger than the Model 3. It will also be a much simpler car with respect to the electrical systems inside — Musk said last month that the Y will have far less wiring than its other cars as the company moves away from its standard 12-volt battery architecture.
Musk also said last month that the Model Y, which is targeted for 2019, would be built on an entirely new vehicle architecture platform, contradicting assumptions that it would be built on the Model 3’s platform as a cost-saving measure. Musk said today that “there are a number of really major manufacturing improvements that can be done that allow us to build a car in a way that a car’s never been built before” by building the Model Y on a new platform.
In fact, Musk justified starting a new platform for the Model Y by trashing the platform-borrowing approach that it has taken with its cars so far. “I think actually we made a mistake in trying to derive the Model X from the model S platform,” he said. “It would have been better to just design an SUV the way an SUV should be designed, [and] design a sedan the way a sedan should be designed. Otherwise you’re just trying to shoehorn something in that doesn’t make sense.”
The Model 3 is the car that’s supposed to bring Tesla to the masses, and yet it wasn’t discussed much — even though it’s launching this summer. Musk did say, though, that the configurator for those who have preordered the car will go live toward the end of next month, when the first Model 3s roll off the line.
But he added that those customers will have to deal with a very limited set of options — essentially color and wheel type — in order to make sure the company can ramp up production accordingly.
“I should say that we’ve kept the initial configurations of the Model 3 very simple,” Musk said. “A big mistake we made with the X, which is primarily my responsibility — there was way too much complexity right at the beginning. That was very foolish.”
Musk said he’s learned from the Model X rollout, which allowed for so much customization at launch that Tesla wound up hurting its own production timelines. “[Model X] is like a fabergé egg of cars. It’s really an amazing product, but it has way too many cool things in it that should have really been rolled in with version two, version three,” he said. “We got overconfident and created something great that probably will never be made again. And perhaps should not be.”
The tech provided by Israeli company Mobileye was a big part of what powered Tesla’s semi-autonomous capabilities in the early going. But the two companies argued mightily last year over who was to blame for the man who died while using the Autopilot system. When the collaboration disintegrated, Tesla had to rebuild Autopilot using its own hardware and software, and it’s only now that Musk feels Tesla’s version is about to eclipse the level of semi-autonomous driving Mobileye had made possible.
“It’s definitely been a tough slog transitioning from the Mobileye vision chip to Tesla’s internal vision system, but I think we’re almost there in terms of exceeding the ability of the hardware one cars,” he said. “I think with the next release of software, which is maybe as soon as next week, we will finally exceed the experience of the hardware one cars, and then it’s going to advance very rapidly from there.”
Tesla is working on making an all-electric, heavy-duty big rig that it plans to unveil at an event this September. We’ve known that for a while, but what’s new is that Musk said the company is collaborating with potential customers of the semi truck to help design it correctly.
“We’re getting them closely involved in the design process, so the biggest customers of the heavy duty Tesla semi are helping ensure that it is specified to their needs, so it’s not a mystery,” Musk told the shareholders. “They already know that it’s going to meet their needs, because they’ve told us what those needs are. So it’ll really just be a question of scaling volume to make as many as we can.”
Musk added that he hopes to reach production scale on the Tesla Semi in two years.
Musk got cheeky when he was asked whether Tesla is working on anything else in addition to its road cars, semi truck, home battery storage service, and solar panel business. “There’s a few other things I haven’t mentioned here. I just like, really recommend showing up for the semi truck unveiling,” he said. “Maybe there’s a little more than we’re saying here. Maybe. Could be. Who knows?”
Elon Musk is famous for his late night Twitter proclamations and, sometimes, rants. Asked a question about how he splits his time between his many companies, he said that “tweet frequency has no correlation with what I actually do for a work basis.” Meaning that, while he tweets a lot about the Boring Company — his effort to dig a massive tunnel system under Los Angeles — he still considers that “basically a hobby.”
Musk also admitted that he “sometimes goes crazy” on Twitter. “You know, [when] there’s a little red wine, a vintage record player, some ambien. Magic. Magic happens.”
(He later echoed the sentiment on Twitter, of course.)
A little red wine, vintage record, some Ambien ... and magic!
Apple yesterday took the wraps off iOS 11 and detailed a healthy chunk of new features set to arrive for iPad and iPhone owners some time this fall. One aspect of the new mobile OS that wasn’t talked about during the keynote was a new “Core NFC” framework that could expand near-field communication features for Apple devices beyond just its mobile payments support.
The change in how iOS makes use of NFC is detailed in a documentation webpage for the beta version of iOS 11, and it was reported by Engadget earlier today. (Apple did announce on stage yesterday that its upcoming watchOS 4 release would let the Apple Watch communicate with supported gym equipment using NFC.)
As it stands today, NFC is used on the iPhone solely to transmit payment requests between a mobile device and a card reader. This is because Apple restricts how the chip is used at a system level within iOS. With the new Core NFC framework, however, Apple could let third-party developers make use of NFC in novel ways, or it could simply expand NFC functions beyond Apple Pay for use in its own apps and services. The documentation page says, “For example, your app might give users information about products they find in a store or exhibits they visit in a museum.”
As Engadget points out, there are more useful NFC use cases that go beyond holding your phone up to a museum exhibit or movie poster to get bombarded with an ad. You could make use of “tap-to-pair” functionality for linking Bluetooth speakers and other accessories to your iPhone, something Android allows and a big workaround to obnoxious wireless pairing woes. Apple could also let the iPhone’s NFC chip support transit passes or workplace keycards. You could imagine Apple releasing a general-purpose app, or build new features into the existing Wallet app, that let you manage NFC data exchanges as if they were just like airline boarding passes, movie tickets, or coupons.
Of course, this is all speculative. But it’s promising news for those eager to turn their iPhone into a kind of one-stop-shop for all their mobile wallet and authentication needs. If Apple can get developers and others — even companies trying to promote new movies and attractions or even just sell ads — to come onboard, NFC could take on a larger role in the iOS ecosystem.
Optoma is looking to popularize 4K projectors with its latest products, the $1,999 UHD60 and the $2,499 UHD65, which launched earlier this week as two of the cheapest 4K projectors on the market.
In particular, the UHD60 is the first 4K projector available that breaks the $2,000 price barrier, and while that may still seem like a lot of money, it’s actually a pretty good deal for a projector that supports 4K resolution and HDR video. Also, unlike the UHD65, which is meant for professional home theater installation companies to buy and install for customers, the UHD60 is available at regular retailers like Amazon for you to buy and put in your home.
Both projectors support the Rec.709 color standard for accurate images, and can project an image up to 302 inches wide. That said, there is some trickery needed to pull off the 4K projection at this price point. As Projector Central notes, the chip used in the UHD60 only has 2716 x 1528 mirrors (a measurement like pixels used in projectors), which is less than it needs for true 4K. But due to some technical pixel shifting wizardly on the video processing end of things, the projector is able to deliver twice the number of pixels per mirror, reaching the final 4K resolution.
The Optoma UHD60 should be available for purchase on Amazon and Best Buy in the coming days.
Legendary car designer Henrik Fisker released some new images today of the forthcoming EMotion, an ultra-luxury electric vehicle with a range of 400 miles and a top speed of 161 mph. The images more or less track with the rendering Fisker released last year: sleek, aerodynamic lines; a low-slung hood; and a tapered back end. But the designer’s company also revealed some new details about the car that could help revitalize Fisker’s reputation in the EV market.
The EMotion is Fisker’s second attempt to capture lightning in the bottle. Back in 2011, he launched the Fisker Karma, an ultra-luxury, plug-in hybrid vehicle that was supposed to be followed by an all-electric sedan in the years to come.
Unfortunately, Fisker never got the chance to release his own Model 3; after selling some 1,800 units of the Fisker Karma in North America and Europe, Fisker was forced to end production as a result of the bankruptcy of his battery supplier. The vehicle's manufacturer, Fisker Automotive, was later sold to Chinese auto-parts conglomerate Wanxiang. Last year, Fisker revealed his new venture, Fisker Inc., and promised his first vehicle would be released in 2017.
With the release of these new images, Fisker Inc. still seems to be following the Tesla playbook to a T. The company says it will open up preorders at the end of June, at which point the vehicle will be sold directly through its website and forthcoming “experience centers.”
The promised range on the vehicle — 400 miles — is pretty impressive, considering it’s over 100 miles more than a top-of-the-range Tesla. Fisker says it’s able to achieve this thanks to the vehicle’s “advanced high-energy density, patent-pending battery pack and cooling system.” The vehicle will be charged through Fisker’s proprietary “UltraCharger” system, that the company claims will provide over 100 miles of range in just nine minutes of charging. By comparison, Tesla’s SuperChargers can replenish half the battery of a Model X in about 20 minutes.
And, of course, the Fisker EMotion will come with fully autonomous capabilities, the company says. “The front end’s bright aluminum centerpiece houses a LIDAR system behind a tinted screen. Side mirrors conceal two cameras, which enable panoramic, 360-degree views to the driver.” Other details, such as whether the vehicle’s autonomous features are best used on highways only or in urban environments as well, are still unknown.
Fisker did announce a deal with the Hybrid Shop, a Santa Monica-based EV maintenance and repair company, to provide “a one-of-a-kind, white glove concierge service” for EMotion owners.
To be sure, Fisker’s promises don’t amount to much until we see the car in action. Fisker’s previous failure to capture the electric vehicle market may turn some consumers off. And with Tesla about to release the Model 3, and dozens of automakers racing to follow Elon Musk’s company into the mass-market space, it’s unclear how important another insanely expensive, ultra-luxury electric car still is today.
Google’s open-source machine learning project Tensorflow is probably used all the time for helpful things that advance the cause of mankind or something. But in my experience, what it has been best used for is making horrifying auto-generated images out of simple line drawings. I’m referring to edges2cats, which turned any line drawing into a cat. It was a whole thing! Everyone was trying it out, then posting pictures of really demented cats to Twitter for others to laugh at.
Today the same thing has happened, except it’s not cats. It’s human heads. And instead of Google’s project, Dutch Public Broadcaster NPO created its own artificial intelligence system that had only been fed thousands of images of one of its anchors, Lara Rense. As reported by the popular Tumblr prostheticknowledge, the web tool is called Pix2Pix.
You draw a face, and Pix2Pix uses a neural network to create what looks like an approximation of an oil painting of that face (made up of pieces of Rense’s face). Obviously the results mostly look like monsters, especially the pig-baby monster from the first season of American Horror Story. Also thumbs.
in case you ever wondered what blob and "oh no" speech bubble would look like if they were human pic.twitter.com/Qowz1leMXO
The auto-detected edges of your line drawing are probably only helpful if you are really good at drawing and can draw a lifelike face. For example, this is a total disaster, by me:
Here’s another total disaster, by The Verge news editor Kwame Opam:
My editor Chris Plante drew a portrait of my robot son Klav, who you might remember from a joke from nearly a year ago, but I don’t know how loyal you are to this website:
Our social media manager and resident cartoonist Dami Lee made the guy from Pan’s Labyrinth:
Anyway, have fun! You can read more about the project on the radio station’s website, but the Google translation of the Dutch is kind of rough.
OnePlus is set to announce its OnePlus 5 flagship on June 20th, and today Android Police released a supposed image of the device that it says should be accurate. From the picture, we can see the device might launch with a dual-camera system and, well, that’s kind of it. Oh, it’ll also maybe be available in black to start, which would be different for OnePlus. The 3T wasn’t initially available in black.
We don’t have many details about the guts of the phone, other than the fact that it’ll have Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 835 processor. We also know OnePlus is working with DxO to optimize camera performance.
I wish we had more to share, but alas, this is all we got. I have a feeling we’ll probably see more details leak out in the weeks to come, but for now, we can tell OnePlus is going for the iPhone look.
Patrik Karlsson, a 33-year-old ad designer living in rural Sweden, has been running the tiny but beloved site This is Not Porn for more than seven years. The site has a simple premise — it’s uh, not porn. It’s a collection of candid celebrity photos, all vintage, and all obscure enough to make the site a veritable goldmine for anyone who wishes they had the personal time to sift through Tumblr, hit the web’s many open photo troves in earnest, or work their way through every Turner classic movie.
Karlsson doesn’t do much with the photos he posts. He just shares things he takes a liking to, with as much context as he can find. Sometimes that means a photographer and a location, sometimes just a date, sometimes just the name that already obviously goes with the famous face. The celebrities are mainstream — there are lots of shots of Harrison Ford, Clint Eastwood, Roger Moore, and other mostly white, male standard-bearers for classic cinema — but the photos are as niche as they come.
It’s nothing more than a sweet pet project, with a paltry 28,000 followers on Twitter. (Fan accounts for individual celebrities like Rihanna or Harry Styles often have hundreds of thousands.) But it’s the best place on the web for people interested in seeing some of the moments around the edges of pop culture classics. One of my recent favorites, for example: the teen actors of the original Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) crowd around Robert Englund, kissing him on the cheek as he relaxes on set. He’s listening to an enormous Walkman in full Freddy Kreuger makeup, and he barely looks up. It’s not porn, but it’s good! I recently chatted with Karlsson about the anniversary, how celebrity micro-blogging has changed since he started This is Not Porn, and why he kept that confusing domain name.
This interview has been edited for clarity.
Where did the idea for the site come from? Can you explain the name?
It all started back in 2010. I had dropped out of college, and I was feeling a bit down and lost. I needed some projects to take my mind off things and keep me busy. I've always liked creating stuff for the internet, so I started a couple of blogs, among them This Is Not Porn. The intention from the start was to post photos that I found sexy, but that weren't actually porn, no nudity or anything like that. So that was what I posted for the first month or so. Then I stumbled upon some old celebrity photos that I found fascinating and beautiful. [I] thought it would be much more fun to dedicate the blog to rare and funny celebrity photos, since that was a more unique niche.
I still think these photos are quite sexy in their own way, and they are definitely not porn, so the name still applies. But keeping the name was probably a poor choice in some ways. Many people are skeptical, and don't want to click on a link that has porn in it. I've heard that the site is blocked by firewalls at workplaces and schools. I have had people tell me I should change the name, but I haven't got any suggestions for what to change it to. I can understand that people get suspicious when they see the URL. They think it will be porn. So I'm working uphill, but I like the name, so I will stick with it.
Ironically enough, the most used search term to find my site is “porn,” so those people will instead be disappointed.
Nick Corri, Amanda Wyss, Johnny Depp, Heather Langenkamp and Robert Englund on the set of A Nightmare on Elm Street. pic.twitter.com/7dYCg1g2wT
Where do you find the photos?
Everywhere. The internet is huge, and you can find anything on it. But I also go through magazines, books, and documentaries. Sometimes I get photos sent to me from my followers. I always try to credit the photographer, but many times it's impossible to find the info. If a photographer wants their photo removed, I delete it immediately. I'm not trying to take credit for the photos. I want to share them with more people and archive them for the future.
How do you research and maintain the part of the site where you debunk fake celebrity photos?
With the common sense that I wish more people had in today's social media society. There are too many fake photos and fake news going viral. People need to think before they share or retweet. The photos I've debunked on my site are photos I often see in my feeds, and they often get lots of attention, since people want to believe. When I see something that doesn't seem right or [seems] too good to be true, I try to find the non-Photoshopped original, or try to find the source of the photo to debunk the incorrect caption. It's usually not that hard.
How much time does the website take, and how do you fit it into your schedule?
I work at a smaller company making ads for newspapers and magazines, therefore I don't have as much time as I did before. But the site is my baby and my longest living web project, so I try to put in at least one hour a day, and since I live in a very, very small village in Sweden, I don’t have that much else to do.
I don't really have a daily process. I just look for photos and post them when I find them.
How do you decide what celebrities to feature? Are they based on personal interest? Follower interest?
I try to keep a wide range so there will be something for everybody. Mostly it's people I like or just find interesting, but there are a few exceptions. I have a rule to not post photos from after 2000, but I've broken that a few times. I grew up in the late ‘80s, early ‘90s, so photos from that era are extra nostalgic and fun to me. Anything from movies like Ghostbusters, Star Wars, and Indiana Jones has a special place in my heart. Sometimes I ask my followers what specific celebrities they want to see, and then I go pic-hunting based on their replies.
Which celebrities get the most engagement from followers?
The sad thing is that the most engagement and interest to my site comes when someone dies.
How did you develop your following? Did you do any paid promotion?
I've never done any paid promotions, it has just grown organically. Back in 2011, I got linked on Reddit, and it ended up on the front page. So then everything blew up for a while. But nowadays, I don't have that many views at all. I can't compete with viral sites that copy my 50 most recent photos and name it "50 super-rare crazy celebrity photos that will blow your mind. You won't believe #36." They get thousands of likes and shares. I don't own the photos, so I don't do anything about it. But the followers I have are what keep me going, and I'm very thankful for them.
Sheryl Lee, David Lynch and Moira Kelly on the set of Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me. https://t.co/QSlkOpjzSn pic.twitter.com/2q3lxsa3ZO
You're crowdfunding the site to keep it going. How is that going?
I've probably put more than 3,000 hours into this project, and I just wanted to give the people a chance to contribute if they felt that I've entertained them through the years. I'm not asking for much, just enough to pay for the web hosting. Since I know lots of people use ad-blockers, this is a good alternative. We've reached 51 percent of our goal, so at least some people think it's worth donating a dollar to.
You can see the donations for 2017 here. So far it’s 21 people, with an average donation of $5 to $10.
Why do people love obscure photos of celebrities?
Celebrities have always fascinated people, I think, and it's fun to see that they are just people, too, goofing around and acting silly. I hate all the paparazzi stuff you see today. I would rather see photos with heart and soul and genuine smiles. I'm kind of nostalgic, and these old photos make me happy, so that's why I collect them and want to share them with others.
A legal group has asked Donald Trump to unblock users who have offended him on Twitter, saying that the blocks violate the First Amendment. In a letter, the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University argued that Trump’s Twitter account was a public forum, and banning users from viewing or engaging with his tweets suppresses free speech. “The President must not be allowed to banish views from public discourse simply because he finds them objectionable,” writes Knight Institute executive director Jameel Jaffer. “Having opened this forum to all comers, the President can’t exclude people from it merely because he dislikes what they’re saying.”
The Knight Institute letter cites the cases of Holly O’Reilly and Joseph M. Papp, two Twitter users who were blocked from Trump’s @RealDonaldTrump account after mocking or criticizing the president. They’re far from the only people who have provoked the same reaction — others can be found in the #BlockedByTrump hashtag. Blocked users can’t see Trump’s tweets or reply to them while logged in, which the letter says “suppresses speech in a number of ways.” They compare the Twitter account to city council meeting or other public forum. “It is easy to understand why you and your advisers might have found our clients’ posts to be disagreeable. Even if the posts were scornful and acerbic, however, they were protected by the First Amendment.”
This is pretty much how the whole world sees you.#AMJoy#SundayMorning pic.twitter.com/CycqYnKg8b
Trump — like many Twitter users — has been blocking people for years, but the act took on new meaning after his election. The Knight Institute letter refers to both @RealDonaldTrump and the lesser-used @POTUS accounts, both of which serve as platforms for Trump to make official statements — White House press secretary Sean Spicer said today that Trump’s tweets were “official statements by the president of the United States.”
It’s easy for users to log out and view the tweets, but can the president intentionally try to prevent someone from seeing public statements? This is untested legal territory, and a different (and weirder) question from the usual debates over Twitter free speech, which have previously covered account suspensions and shared blocklists. If the administration doesn’t address the question, the Knight Institute says it should prepare to “face legal action to protect the First Amendment rights of the blocked individuals.”
Preorders are now open for Microsoft’s new Surface Pen, which the company announced last month alongside the new Surface Pro. The pen costs $99.99, and for now, it appears that only the platinum version is available. You can’t click through on the preorder button on the black, blue, or burgundy versions, and Microsoft just says they’re “coming soon.” The platinum version has a June 15th release date.
The new pen speeds up the inking experience to the point that there’s no perceptible lag. It’s double the speed of the previous version, and it can handle tilting, which lets users shade like they would with a pencil. The new pen is compatible with older Surface devices, although tilt won’t work with every gadget. The new Surface Pros support it, and Microsoft plans to add the functionality to existing Surface Studio desktops and Surface Books later this year.

Last fall, Anki — a company mostly known for its connected toy cars — released Cozmo, an AI-powered toy robot that has the personality of WALL-E built inside. The $180 robot was meant to be a new kind of toy that lets kids and developers experiment with what they can build from a toy’s SDK, using machine learning and facial recognition to interact with Cozmo as if it’s is a real pet.
Today, Anki announced that it’s expanding Cozmo to international markets, including Canada, UK, France, Germany, and Nordic countries. Alongside that announcement, there’s also a new limited edition Cozmo that masks the jolly robot in a dark, liquid metal covering.
On any other gadget, I would appreciate the sleek, metal look. On Cozmo, it looks... wrong.
In my brief hands-on with Cozmo, I recalled the robot being very curious, childlike, and innocent. Cute is a word often thrown around. There was an adorable mischief about Cozmo that you just smile about, even when it frowns and knocks over a tower of blocks. Dark Cozmo now looks mildly menacing. It reminds me of what happens when you grow up, become annoyed more easily, get grumpier, and, eventually, learn to embrace the darkness of adulthood where not all is fun and games anymore.
Anyway. If you dig it, you can preorder Dark Liquid Metal Cozmo for $180. It’s expected to ship in September.
Apple has allegedly added support for lossless FLAC audio files in iOS 11, according to reports from Reddit users who have installed copies of the developer beta, spotted by The Next Web.
Per the Reddit thread, FLAC files can be synced to an iOS device through iCloud Drive, then accessed through the new Files application, which will allow for local playback of the high-quality audio files directly on the device. If true, it would mark the first time that Apple has offered support for the popular FLAC file format on an iOS device.
Until now, anyone hoping to have lossless, uncompressed audio on an iOS device had to use Apple’s own ALAC format, which — unlike FLAC — is supported by iTunes. And while on paper there’s no problem converting one lossless file type to another without losing quality (hence the term “lossless”), FLAC is by far the more popular standard, so it’s nice to see that Apple is finally supporting it in some fashion.
That said, the report indicates that FLAC files only work in the Files application, not in the Apple Music app. This makes sense, given that would likely require a more major revision to iTunes as well to support FLAC files to sync them. Still, even if Apple doesn’t offer that functionality in the future, at least audiophiles looking to play their FLAC collections on Apple’s devices may have some workaround when iOS 11 launches this fall.
Back in 2014, MIT debuted CityHome, a solution for tiny living spaces with the ability to pack several home necessities into a single, movable modular unit. Today, the concept — now renamed Ori Systems, after the Japanese art of origami — is available for preorder at $10,000 in New York City, Chicago, San Francisco, Boston, and other major US and Canadian cities.
A collaboration between Fuseproject’s Yves Béhar and MIT Media Lab, Ori Systems, comes in two sizes, “Ori Full” and “Ori Queen,” and for now, it’s only available for preorder by real estate developers, with delivery beginning toward the end of this year. The Ori Systems prototype has been tested by Airbnb guests in Boston for the past year, and model Ori Systems are currently installed in apartment complexes in 10 US and Canadian cities, including The Eugene in New York.
Both sizes of the automated system include a bed, workstation, drawers, a closet, and storage, but the Queen version comes with a couch. The Ori Systems are powered through a standard AC plug connection, and elements can be controlled via the physical Ori control interface on the side of the unit, an app, or via voice command with Alexa. (“Hey Alexa, can you ask Ori to make the bed?”) Ori Systems are also constructed out of lightweight poplar plywood and on wheels, meaning the unit is easy to manually configure and move in case of a power outage.
$10,000 for a single unit appears extravagant at first blush, but purchasing all the pieces of furniture Ori Systems houses individually would already run the average home owner thousands. (A medium-range IKEA bed, mattress, and bedding, for example, could cost around $1,000 alone.) Plus, I don’t know about you, but I can’t command my bed to do anything, let alone put itself away. It’s also likely that the price tag is mutable: if Ori Systems proves the market after their first run, costs could begin to go down as manufacturing scale increases.
In the first production run, 1,200 units will be produced, and the company hopes to expand to other countries in the near future, saying it “acknowledge[s] that the need for new urban solutions is a global challenge.” With micro apartments and rising real estate costs becoming a normative reality in major urban markets like San Francisco, New York, Hong Kong, and Tokyo, Ori Systems comes at a time when many are seeking (and need) new, innovative ways to do more with less living space... like commanding your furniture to bring your glass of wine to you.
Apple finally announced an augmented reality platform for developers yesterday, and it’s about time. ARKit, as the tool is called, lets app makers draw on detailed camera and sensor data to map digital objects into 3D space. This lets them move beyond simple 2D camera overlays, without requiring the heavy-duty software engineering behind more advanced tools like Snapchat world lenses.
If nothing else, Apple has just made catching pokémon more immersive. But ARKit could also let the company compete against Google, which currently sets the gold standard for phone-based augmented reality. It could even set the stage for augmented reality glasses and virtual reality. Here’s what that means.
ARKit enables what Apple refers to as “world tracking,” which works through a technique called visual-inertial odometry. Using the iPhone or iPad’s camera and motion sensors, ARKit finds a bunch of points in the environment, then tracks them as you move the phone. It doesn’t create a 3D model of a space, but it can “pin” objects to one point, realistically changing the scale and perspective. It can also find flat surfaces, which is great for putting digital props on a floor or table.
Apple imagines people using this tech in ways that make it sound a lot like Google’s Tango platform. It referenced an upcoming app from Ikea, for example, which seems very likely to involve putting virtual furniture in your house — something Wayfair has been doing on Tango for a long time. But ARKit has a huge advantage over Tango: it’s going to be available on a giant swathe of existing devices, while Google needs each Android manufacturer to build Tango hardware into their phones.
Facebook is also pushing augmented reality hard, touting some advanced machine learning. But developers are limited to working with Facebook’s own Camera app, while Apple will let them add augmented reality to independent iOS apps. With ARKit, Apple says it’s got “the largest AR platform in the world,” and that may well be true.
On the other hand, ARKit doesn’t work exactly like Tango. Tango has extra cameras to pick up wide-angle images and depth data, and over the past couple of years, it’s developed very precise tracking capabilities. You can do things like scan an entire room and instantly build a 3D model of it, which requires a separate peripheral on iOS. You can also use Tango with a minimum of frustration, because it’s good at keeping objects in place.
ARKit could improve individual elements of existing AR apps; Apple promises excellent object scaling, for example. Apple says ARKit also uses a fraction of the phone’s CPU, so it could make AR less of a resource drain. But it doesn’t transform the iPhone or iPad’s basic tracking capabilities. It just makes them available to more developers, who will no longer have to build their own tracking and imaging systems.
Apple also doesn’t seem as interested as Facebook and Google in hooking this all up to internet search by default. Developers can use Apple’s new machine learning framework to identify objects in a scene, but Apple’s not talking about identifying wine vintages the way Facebook did at F8, or letting Siri analyze concert posters and auto-translate signs the way Google did with Assistant at I/O.
As my colleague Lauren Goode mentioned, Apple is supposedly developing augmented reality glasses, and it needs apps to make that work. ARKit gets iOS developers thinking about AR, so hopefully somebody will come up with a great use case to help Apple’s hardware avoid the ignominious fate of Google Glass.
But ARKit is also a stepping stone in a smaller sense. As a general iOS 11 feature, it’s straddling the gap between Apple’s single-camera devices and its dual-camera iPhone 7 Plus. These cameras offer better depth sensing, and if they become a standard iOS feature, ARKit could start feeling a lot closer to Tango.
If a phone can track someone walking around a virtual object, you could theoretically pop that phone in a VR headset and let them walk around a virtual environment. That’s why Google used Tango technology for its all-in-one VR headset. Lots of people have speculated that Apple is planning an iPhone-based headset, particularly since it may be switching to VR-friendly OLED screens. And now that Apple is officially in the augmented reality game, it’s less of a leap to full VR.
That said, there’s a much higher bar for virtual reality tracking: you won’t literally get sick if an AR object slips out of place, which is a real concern in VR.
For all the excitement over augmented reality, it’s worth remembering that no one has launched a major app with AR as the main selling point. Pokémon Go, touted as one of AR’s big successes, featured the technology as a minor aesthetic perk; we even recommended people turn it off to play the game better. Snapchat augmented reality took off because people were already using Snapchat, and if AR filters succeed on Facebook, it’ll likely be for the same reason.
Making augmented reality more accessible could change this, freeing developers to build AR-first apps for a huge audience with low overhead. Even if these don’t break through, augmented reality’s “killer app” could also be the slow creep of AR into apps people are already using — think ubiquitous filters in video services, or an optional AR mode in games. Neither of these futures would be as exciting as augmented reality glasses, but it would help advance a technology that’s been on the cusp of arriving for years — with devices people already use.
Uber has fired more than 20 employees as part of its investigation into sexual harassment claims at the company, according to Bloomberg. Employees were told at an all-hands meeting at Uber’s San Francisco headquarters about the terminations.
An outside law firm that was retained to investigate claims of sexism and harassment at Uber gave the report today at the meeting, Bloomberg reports. The investigation uncovered over 200 reports of inappropriate conduct, like harassment, bias, bullying, discrimination, and retaliation. Half of the reported incidents were dismissed with no action taken, while 31 employees are in training or counseling, and seven were handed written warnings. Fifty-seven cases are still being investigated.
Uber sexual harassment findings215 claims investigated100 no action20+ terminations
Can confirm, we're hearing at least 200 reports of harassment/discrimination at Uber and at least 20 terminations out of today's all hands
The company has been operating under a cloud since February, when Susan Fowler, a former engineer, published her account of rampant sexism and harassment. Fowler’s story went viral, and since then other engineers have since corroborated her description of Uber’s toxic workplace. In the weeks that followed, multiple top-level executives have left — either because they were fired or on their own accord.
Uber retained ex-US Attorney General Eric Holder and his colleague Tammy Albarran to investigate its workplace culture. But according to Bloomberg, today’s meeting was focused on the findings of a separate law firm, Perkins Coie LLP, that was hired to look into Fowler’s specific allegations. Holder and Albarran’s full report was delivered to Uber’s board last week, but the release of its findings could be delayed because of the recent death of Uber CEO Travis Kalanick’s mother in a boating accident.
We’ve reached out to Uber for comment and we’ll update this story when we hear back. But at least one Uber employee took today’s news about the terminations with surprising aplomb. (She has since deleted this tweet.)
Update, June 6th, 2017, 2:59 am ET: A source with knowledge of today’s all-hands meeting confirmed the numbers that were first reported by Bloomberg, adding that not all the cases reported in the Perkins Coie investigation were related to sexual harassment. Some were related to bullying, retaliation, discrimination, and other instances of inappropriate behavior.
The firm’s report will factor into to Holder and Albarran’s larger investigation into Uber’s cultural problems, which will include recommendations for how the ride-hail giant can prevent future cases of harassment and discrimination from occurring. That report is expected to be delivered to Uber board member Arianna Huffington next week.
A spokesperson for Uber declined to comment.

The internet is an ad-tracking machine. It’s been true for long enough that we rarely talk about it anymore, but it bears repeating. For all the free speech and free information, nearly any site you visit will come with a dozen different tracking cookies, enabling uniquely tailored ads to follow you from site to site. Targeted advertising is still the best way to make money on the internet, so those cookies are everywhere. (The Verge is no exception; that VR room isn’t cheap.) Sites try not to be creepy about it, some harder than others, but the overarching logic is hard to escape. It’s a multibillion-dollar business, and it pays for nearly everything you see online.
Yesterday at WWDC, Apple threw a wrench into that system. Alongside new autoplay blockers, the latest versions of Safari (currently in beta) will have a new tool for blocking third-party ad trackers, aggressively identifying and blocking any cookies used to track users across the web. As Craig Federighi said onstage, “It’s not about blocking ads, but your privacy is protected.”
It’s an important move, particularly for the mobile web, where Safari manages just under 30 percent of browsing sessions. When Safari added the option for ad-blocking with iOS 9, it was a day of reckoning for many web companies — raising hard questions about the future of mobile browsing. This week’s announcement is primed to make a similar splash.
According to Marc Al-Hames, who works on the privacy-focused browser Cliqz, companies are already scrambling to figure out the best way around the new restrictions. “This is a cat-and-mouse game, and it always has been,” Al-Hames says. “Users try out different things to protect themselves, and there’s a multibillion-dollar ad tech industry thinking of ways to circumvent it.”
Surprisingly, Google and Facebook are poised to come out of that game ahead. But to understand why, we need to dig into how the new policy works. Safari has had some version of cookie-blocking for years, but the previous default was to allow cookies “from websites I visit.” The new policy goes further, using machine learning to identify tracking behavior no matter how the cookies are served. In many cases, blocking those cookies outright would break basic functionalities. Instead, Safari puts a strict time limit on how long the cookie can stick around, keeping cookies available for 24 hours after a visit and outright deleting anything older than 30 days.
The crucial distinction is between the first-party sites you’re purposefully visiting and the third-party trackers that come along for the ride. As long as a cookie is associated with a website you’ve visited in the last 24 hours, Safari won’t change much — which gives popular sites like Facebook and the various Google services an easy way around the new restrictions. The systems hit hardest by Safari’s new policy will be third-party systems like Criteo or Adroll, which silently coordinate cookies in the background of thousands of sites. Not coincidentally, Criteo’s stock plummeted in the wake of the announcement.
That’s much less of a problem for Google and Facebook, which already dominate online ads. Most people visit Facebook or a Google service every day, and those users will never be too far outside the 24-hour window. Both services also work as a kind of permanent login, used to access sites like Twitter or WordPress without a separate password. As a result, most users stay logged in to Google and Facebook as long as they’re online. Combine that with omnipresent Like buttons, and you’ve got an easy way to see what people are doing on the web. And as long as you’re visiting Facebook once a day, Safari won’t get in the way of that tracking.
Google and Facebook’s biggest challengers in ad-targeting are telecom companies like Verizon and Comcast, which were given a huge boost by recent shifts in US telecom policy. But those companies should fare just as well. Both Verizon and Comcast invested heavily in web media alongside advertising tech, which means they can take advantage of the same first-party exception as Google and Facebook. (Disclosure: One of Comcast’s media investments is a minority stake in Vox Media, parent company of The Verge.) As long as you’re visiting AOL or Huffington Post sites once a day, Verizon will have no problem targeting ads, and cookie-serving deals may extend that reach even further.
At the same time, ad networks that aren’t attached to popular websites will take a serious hit. It won’t be a total blackout, since most modern networks supplement cookies with more advanced fingerprinting techniques that profile visitors without transmitting any data. They can also try to make cookie-serving agreements with websites, collecting data at the same time that they serve the ads themselves. But the new Safari policy will still put those ad companies at a permanent disadvantage to more powerful players like Google and Facebook. Those companies were already outmatched — with Google and Facebook capturing 90 cents of every new dollar spent on online ads — and the new browser moves will make it even harder for them to survive. The result will tip the balance even farther toward the handful of giant companies that already dominate the web.
Apple isn’t the only force pushing the web in that direction. The European Commission’s recent anti-tracking proposals would establish a similar distinction between first and third parties. Only last week, Google announced an ad-blocker for Chrome that’s likely to edge out small players even further. It’s still hard to say what that will mean for smaller websites and everyday users, but Google and Facebook will only become more central to the business of the web.
Underneath it all is the basic logic of consolidation. These players — Google, Facebook, Verizon, and Comcast — control huge portions of how we connect to the web, from the servers to the fiber to the device, ending with the browser itself. Now, they’re using that control to play for advantage in ad-tracking, with users stuck in the middle. iOS and Safari are incredibly powerful tools in that fight, and by all appearances, Apple is using them to try to craft a less invasive web experience for its users. But after more than a decade of ad tech, untangling that knot may be harder than the company realizes.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk got a jump on the company’s annual shareholder meeting yesterday, answering a few questions — among the thousands received — via Twitter.
He chose to answer cutting-edge queries about his underwear preference and how he celebrates a successful shareholders’ meeting (commando and Cabernet wine from California, for the inquiring minds out there).
He also weighed in on how many factories it would take to duplicate Ford’s global production. (Ford has nearly two dozen factories). Musk believes it would be four or five Gigafactories, an answer that’s in line with previously stated plans. Though he did provide a bit more information on where, stating that these factories would be located close to the end customer, a hint that Tesla might eventually have factories in other key markets like China. Tesla has recently denied a report that it planned to open a factory in China’s Guangdong Province. And news coming out of China indicates that a move toward halting electric car permits might derail this strategy, even if it did proceed. Still, Musk’s latest comment on Twitter clarifies the company’s strategy to widen its geographic footprint.
Tesla plans to finalize the location for its third, fourth, and fifth Gigafactories in 2017, according to its fourth quarter 2016 shareholder letter. (Its first Gigafactory, near Reno, Nevada, will mass-produce lithium-ion batteries and make electric motors and gearbox components for its Model 3 electric car. The second Gigafactory is a solar plant in New York.)
Call his speed round on Twitter a warm-up to the real thing, an annual meeting that traditionally has abounded with informational nuggets and updates from Musk about what Tesla is up to and where it’s headed.
Tesla’s annual shareholder meeting will be held at 2:30PM PT at Computer History Museum in Mountain View, California.
The questions today will likely be a bit more probing than “boxers or briefs?” Expect questions — and even some answers — on Tesla’s upcoming Model 3 electric car for the masses, its plans for an electric truck, expansion of its manufacturing footprint, the integration of SolarCity into the larger business, and Musk’s future at Tesla. A request for the Model 3 offered as a vegan option wouldn’t be a surprise either.
And expect a challenge to how Tesla structures its board.
Shareholders will vote today whether to declassify the board, a move that will force all directors to face an annual re-election as opposed to staggered, three-year terms.
The proposal was made by pension funds and has the backing of two proxy advisory firms, Institutional Shareholder Services and Glass Lewis, which argue that the board is stacked with directors who have personal and professional ties to Musk. The goal is a more independent board that is faced with annual elections.
But Tesla is against this proposal, arguing that its board structure allows the company to focus on long-term strategies “without being distracted by special interests that seek only short-term returns,” the company said in a filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company pointed to several examples of decisions that might have appeared counterintuitive, but set up the company for success, including its decision to be a car manufacturer not just a supplier of electric vehicle components, its acquisition of SolarCity, and its plan to build the largest lithium-ion battery factory in the world.

WhatsApp got a few new features in an update today for iOS, adding photo filters, automatic albums in chats, and the ability to send quick replies to messages.
The photo filters is probably the biggest of the three; it lets you apply a filter to a picture, video, or GIF before you send it. Right now, there are only five options: Pop, B&W, Cool, Chrome, and Film, but it’s easy to imagine that WhatsApp could add more in the future.
Additionally, if you send multiple images or videos consecutively in a chat, they’ll now be automatically grouped into a single album (as seen below) instead of a stream of multiple in-line images. Lastly, you can now swipe right on an individual message in a thread to directly respond to it, which could be useful for group chats.
The new features are available on iOS now; no Android launch date has been given, but it’s probable that they’ll show up in the near future.


Just a few weeks after Amazon opened its drive-up grocery pickup service in Seattle, it looks like Walmart is trialling its own version of the concept with a new automated kiosk at a store in Oklahoma City. The service, which doesn’t seem to have any special name as of yet, lets Walmart customers order their groceries online or through an app and select to pick up the order from a 24-hour kiosk.
Just like AmazonFresh’s concept in Seattle, Walmart’s system sends a customer’s order to a local store, where employees will package their items into ready-to-pickup bags. When a customer pulls up to the kiosk, he or she enters a five-digit pickup code and the machine will retrieve the grocery bags for them, similar to a vending machine. The self-pickup service is free, but there is a purchase minimum of $30.
The automated kiosk — which at 20 x 80 feet, looks more like a standalone building — is being tested for consumer feedback before expanding more widely. Walmart says it’s been working on online grocery pickup since 2014 that’s similar to what AmazonFresh offers now in Seattle, and has expanded the service to more than 600 stores so it is hoping to quickly expand its automated system if all goes well.
Besides, AmazonFresh currently services customers in major cities, including Los Angeles, Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston, Chicago, and Philadelphia, while Walmart has at least one location in every state. Given the market size, Amazon might need to do more than offer pickup without an order minimum or offer to bring your order to your car if it wants to fully compete.
Just days before The Mummy hits theaters, Universal is expanding its recently named Dark Universe with two more films. In an interview with Fandom, director Alex Kurtzman revealed that the studio is working on new versions of The Phantom of the Opera and The Hunchback of Notre Dame to add to its already crowded roster.
“We know we’re going to do Frankenstein, Bride of Frankenstein, Dracula, Creature from the Black Lagoon, Phantom of the Opera, Hunchback of Notre Dame, Invisible Man,” he told the site.
1923’s The Phantom of the Opera and 1925’s The Hunchback of Notre Dame were two of Universal’s first monster movies, and they laid the groundwork for the studio’s later films. Pulling the two characters into the Dark Universe shows that it’s going back to its horror roots, even though modern audiences are more likely familiar with the two characters from theatrical musicals or Disney films. However, it’s worth noting that neither the Phantom nor the Hunchback are monsters in any traditional sense, just disfigured men. Universal will likely inject some supernatural elements into their stories so they make sense in a world filled with vampires and invisible men. Still, the idea that Quasimodo’s affliction makes him monstrous will almost surely garner criticism, depending on how the material is handled.
Still, this does show how bullish Universal is with its new Dark Universe experiment. The studio is launching its Marvel-esque cinematic universe this week with The Mummy, and Bride of Frankenstein, starring Javier Bardem as Frankenstein’s Monster, is currently scheduled for release in February 2019. The upcoming films will all center around a mysterious organization called Prodigium, led by Dr. Henry Jekyll (Russell Crowe). While reviews have yet to even come in for The Mummy, Universal is clearly banking hard on its new franchise.
Master & Dynamic is launching a redesigned pair of its MW60 wireless headphones today in coordination with the Bamford Watch Department. This collaboration follows another limited edition set of the MW60s released last month with Leica. Similar to that partnership, Master & Dynamic didn’t change the actual specs of its headphones; it’s just trying out a new color scheme. In this case, it lined the headband with light blue lambskin and put some color inside the actual cans. The optional cable matches, too.
A pair costs $549, just like the regular MW60s. I think the blue elevates the headphones and makes them slightly trendier. I already thought the MW60s looked good, but the pastel blue is very of-the-moment. Some people might think a product is cheapened through constant limited edition sets that are created solely to sell more headphones, but considering that Beats is succeeding because of its wide variety of color options, maybe Master & Dynamic has the right idea.
As you are aware, modern life presents dozens of new venues for finding romance, each with their own complicated set of roadblocks, pitfalls, and potential horrific disasters. People love to wring their hands over these options, asking whether it is even possible to meet a person organically in a physical space in 2017 and subsequently care for them, or if Tinder and its ilk have inured us to each other’s feelings and faces, making the human species more flighty, distractible, and mean.
There are so many questions, and one of them is this: is it cool to date on Twitter? I’m asking because I spend my whole day there, and out of respect for the person I was at age 16, I am nurturing at least half a dozen Twitter crushes at any given time.
I believe it was Drew Barrymore’s character in Never Been Kissed — Josie “Josie Grossie” Geller, a fictional cub reporter for the semi-real Chicago Sun-Times — who best articulated the importance of crushes: they are the thing “you get up and go to school for in the morning,” in addition to your education or whatever. My Twitter crushes are how I make myself get up and get ready for work. Can I date any of them? Should I? The question presented me with the perfect occasion to talk to people who have already tried it, in a one-time-only podcast event called “Four stories of dating on Twitter.” Here we are.
oh...thought twitter is already a dating app pic.twitter.com/Wg0QFspDE1
Recently, The Washington Post published a useful report titled “Dating via Twitter? Yes, it’s possible,” citing the hashtag #WeMetOnTwitter, which has been used about 500 times. That doesn’t seem like a lot, but the report also deploys some compelling anecdotal evidence and discusses the recent advent of the app Loveflutter, which is an awful lot like Tinder except 10 recent tweets are included in your profile. The app has about a million users, according to co-founder Daigo Smith. It seems only logical, actually, that as Twitter eases into its second decade of existing, it would also become embedded more naturally into the social fabric.
If we’re here all day anyway, then why not? Here are four stories that I hope will help answer the question.
Maya Kosoff, a tech and politics writer for Vanity Fair, was the impetus for this entire investigation. The very first time I met Maya, she told me that, for a long time, Twitter had been the only “dating” app on her phone.
I didn’t believe her, and that’s where our story begins. “It wasn’t on purpose,” she says, and yet it happened. In exchange for Maya’s story, I told Maya a story of my own. That’s how friendship works.
Andrew Marino, The Verge’s audio engineer, is a boy that I know. We’re familiar, friendly even, so I already knew that he had, at some point in time, met a young woman on Twitter and taken her out for dinner at the Times Square Olive Garden. I was very curious to learn: how did Andrew pull this off without coming across as a huge creep and getting blocked forever? Whenever I receive Twitter DMs from strangers, I delete them immediately because I’m no idiot.
I’m not trying to call Andrew’s date an idiot. I’m just trying to understand.
Luckily, Andrew is aware that this is a sticky question, and readily admits, “When you go on Tinder or Bumble, you know that both parties are there for that reason. On Twitter, you don’t want to be like a predator, and you don’t want to come off that way either. But there’s nothing wrong with having a crush.”
Here’s the story of a crush and a DM slide:
Matt Ortile, an editor at BuzzFeed, wrote an essay two years ago about falling in love with somebody he met on Twitter, and what happens when someone who lives in your online social circle breaks up with you. Reading his crush’s tweets for a long time before they actually started dating, Matt says, created “an inflated sense of familiarity.” It led to a don’t-meet-your-heroes experience in which getting to know a person he’d built fantasies around resulted in disillusionment.
Is that reconstruction of reality meaningfully different than the narrative-building we do when we meet an utterly contextless blind date for the first time? Yeah, Matt says, it is... and it sucks.
I’m so glad we got to save this one for last. It’s the best, no offense to me or my other guests. Joanna Stern, personal technology columnist at The Wall Street Journal (and former senior reviews editor at The Verge), told me an excellent story in which she met her wife on Twitter and then never had to bother with any of these terrible questions ever again.
From the nerve-wracking opening DM to a marriage proposal sent in a tweet, it’s one of those unlikely stories that doesn’t exactly sound possible to re-create. But it’s lovely, and contains a little piece of advice for everyone: “It’s an important thing, when you’re going to date someone, to see how they are socially and in your world. Twitter actually, in some ways, mimics that.”
According to Maya, dating on Twitter is a great option if you’re “really lazy.” According to Andrew, dating on Twitter is enough like dating in the real world that it’s not much of a question. He had a nice time at Olive Garden, and that’s enough for now. According to Matt, dating on Twitter is only okay if you’re confident that you can keep your expectations in check. According to Joanna, she’s “too scared of the internet now” to really recommend that you try to mimic her success.
According to me, after thinking about it with the help of these four, it’s not “cool,” because as platforms go, structurally, Twitter is probably closer to LinkedIn than it is to a dating app. You’re likely to interact with people who work in the same field as you — people you might one day find yourself stuck with professionally. Dating on Twitter is also not cool if you don’t have the self-control to resist checking a date’s tweets, replies, and likes all day long.
The same way a teenage crush could debilitate you at school, an internet crush can debilitate you at work. (If you work on a computer, that is. Otherwise, go for it!) Also, if you’re someone who likes to tweet jokes and complaints about your love life, dating a person from Twitter will make that difficult.
On the other hand, maybe dating on Twitter is “cool” if you prefer to re-create something resembling the social network of real life and then choose dates from there. It’s more — pardon me — romantic that way. If Twitter took off as a dating app, it would be the rare one that doesn’t use an algorithm to pair you up. You’d end up connected to people in a way that’s pretty organic, similar to the way you might wind up crossing paths with someone in the offline world: friends of friends, friends of co-workers, former co-workers of current co-workers, a stranger who says one good joke loudly enough to catch your attention, etc. It’s nice to have context for people, or as Darcie Wilder wrote for New Hive last February, “When you’re picking someone from the internet: They already know you. Or they already know who you’re pretending to be.”
It’s almost summer, the official season of taking a gamble, so you might as well try it. If it goes terribly, that’s fine. That’s how most human interaction goes, if you think about it.
The OnePlus 5 is coming this month. Today the company announced that its latest smartphone will be formally announced on June 20th at 12PM ET. As with prior OnePlus product reveals, the “event” will be streamed online. But afterward, there will also be pop-up events in select cities globally. For example, a June 20th event in New York City will feature OnePlus CEO Carl Pei and Marques Brownlee. Several other pop-ups outside the US are scheduled for June 21st.
As with the company’s prior smartphones, the OnePlus 5 is expected to feature many high-end hardware specifications for a price significantly lower than flagship devices from Samsung, Google, LG, and other Android phone makers. A dual-camera setup has also been rumored. OnePlus is working with DxO to optimize camera performance, and the company has boosted its customer service operation ahead of its next product.
This time around, OnePlus faces competition including the Moto Z2 Play at the mid-price tier and a brand new entrant — Essential — that’s trying to win over Android fans in the flagship division. Check back on June 20th to see exactly what OnePlus has been working on.
When the developers at Nintendo began concept work on Arms, a new fighting game coming to the Switch later this month, they weren’t sure what kinds of characters it should include. Early on, they toyed with the idea of featuring familiar Nintendo faces like Mario, Link, and even the Wii Fit trainer. But the key to Arms is right there in the title: it’s a game where characters possess extendable arms that they can use to hit faraway opponents. Twelve-foot-long arms didn’t mesh with a short, squat character like Mario. “We thought the best fit for it was to make it all new,” says producer Kosuke Yabuki.
Like 2015’s Splatoon, Arms isn’t just a brand-new Nintendo series, but a first foray by the company into a genre. Whereas Splatoon was a multiplayer shooter starring a colorful array of stylish squid-people, Arms is a near-future one-on-one competitive fighting game with an eclectic roster of pop star-like combatants. (The Arms and Splatoon teams actually work right beside each other at Nintendo’s Kyoto headquarters.)
Arms started as a fairly simple idea — a behind-the-back fighter where players could lob punches at each other from across an arena. From that point, the team started building out the fiction.
One of the initial inspirations was the world of professional sports — specifically their spectators. “Each fighter has these super intense, passionate fans who kind of copy their look and feel, and come into the arenas to support their chosen fighter,” explains art director Masaaki Ishikawa. “This world of Arms, it’s like our world’s football fans. They’re super passionate, and these Arms supporters really love the fighting aspect of this competition.” Each of the 10 fighters has their own stadium-like arena as a home base, complete with scores of adoring fans, some of whom dress in the colors and costumes of their favorite fighter.
Much like a professional athlete, each combatant also wears equipment that serves as a sort of uniform. Whether it’s a man with slinky springs for arms or a green blob that resembles those inflatable towering mascots flailing their arms above a used car lot, each Arms character sports a face mask and protective chest gear. The outfits have a handful of alternate color palettes to provide some additional variety. “With all of their differences, they still have a cohesive aesthetic that binds them to the same world,” Ishikawa says. The sports theme also helped the game — which is primarily about characters punching each other repeatedly — keep the family-friendly vibe that Nintendo is known for. “We worked hard to make the feel of it such that it’s like you’re watching a basketball game,” says Yabuki.
Compared to other fighting games, the roster of Arms fighters is fairly small, but it’s quite varied. There’s a young pop starlet named Ribbon Girl, a beefy undead boxer called Master Mummy, and Twintelle, a classy movie star who punches with her hair and celebrates victory with a cup of tea. In most cases, the ideas for the characters stemmed from a functional standpoint — if the team needed to add a fast character, for instance, or one who was especially strong — though in a few cases they started with aesthetics. In almost all cases, though, the character design started with the arms.
Take Helix, for example, perhaps the strangest character in the game. Helix — the used car wobbler mentioned above — looks a bit like a particularly jiggly chunk of green ASMR slime, complete with a digital mask in place of eyes and a few floppy strands of hair. But his most striking feature might just be his perpetually twisting arms. According to Ishikawa, the look started with an idea to have a character with DNA strands for arms, but the team didn’t really know where to go after that.
“Initially we had the design for the double helix, DNA-spiral shape for his arms,” he says. “And we had a lot of different ideas for what kind of character would have arms like that. Maybe a cyborg, or some sort of man-made being. Eventually we settled on this amoeba-like character design. In the end, we got a sort of biological creature design. Rather than go really serious with how he moves, we thought it would be more fun and unique to give him an awkward, but cute animation. And with that we ended up with a really unique design that we’re really proud of.”
Other characters followed a similar path: they started out as a pair of arms, and their aesthetics and personalities extended from there. Min Min has spiraling noodles for arms, and she fights inside of a giant ramen bowl. Snake Kid not only has slithering arms, but also appears to be some kind of snake / human hybrid creature who participates in a futuristic extreme sport called snakeboarding. Spring Man, meanwhile, has springy arms, while his hair has a similar bounce, and his arena is lined with trampoline-like pads to jump on. “He’s really based around the idea of springing action,” says Ishikawa.
Having such distinct, iconic designs was especially important for Arms because the characters are the focal point of the game. Both Yabuki and Ishikawa previously worked in the same roles on Mario Kart 8, a game that features a roster that’s almost a who’s who of Super Mario history. In comparison, the fighters in Arms are much less well known, but they serve a bigger function. “In [Mario Kart 8] the focus really is on each of the course designs, and how you race on those,” explains Yabuki. “But Arms is more about how you use each fighter and their arms to fight each other. The personality and distinctive features of each of the Arms characters is a lot more important in this game, as opposed to Mario Kart.”
Much like Splatoon, the character designs in Arms aren’t like anything else Nintendo has made before. They’re wild and inventive, with a modern sense of style, like the artists at Nintendo were finally able to cut loose and took full advantage of the opportunity — rather than build upon decades old characters. And just like Splatoon, the cast of Arms has been well-received by fans; the game may not be out yet, but there is already plenty of fan art and cosplay to be found on Twitter, Tumblr, and elsewhere on the internet. The early, positive reception has been a relief to the creative team, who say they “had no idea” what to expect when they began revealing characters, especially since they were making an entirely new world to go along with the game.
“Creating a wholly new property is really tough, but also incredibly fun and rewarding,” says Yabuki. “You have to think of everything from scratch; the sound, the visuals, absolutely everything. It was really rough, but also really fun to try this.”
Arms launches on Nintendo Switch on June 16th.
Cowboy Bebop, one of the best known anime of all time, will be adapted into a live-action TV show from Tomorrow Studios, Variety reports. Thor: The Dark World and Thor: Ragnarok screenwriter Chris Yost will pen the series, while Sunrise, the studio behind the original show, is attached to executive produce.
Cowboy Bebop originally aired in 1998 in Japan as a 26-episode series, though its late night run on Cartoon Network’s Adult Swim in 2001 helped buoy it to success in the United States. Set in a dystopian future in 2071, Cowboy Bebop imagines an Earth that has been long abandoned and humans who roam the stars. The show follows Spike Spiegel and a misfit group of bounty hunters as they search for the next big score and grapple with their pasts.
The series has long been praised for its jazzy soundtrack and tackling of heavy topics, like loneliness and existence. In 2001, director Shinichirō Watanabe returned with a Cowboy Bebop film, set between the 22nd and 23rd episodes of the show.




Major tech companies and nonprofit groups have signed on to a “day of action” next month to protest the FCC’s planned rollback of net neutrality rules.
Organized by nonprofit group Fight for the Future, the protest will include Amazon, Etsy, Reddit, Mozilla, the ACLU, and several others, who have all agreed to show their support for net neutrality on July 12th. In 2014, a similar list of companies agreed to post banners on their websites showing support for regulation.
So far, though, there are few details on what the protest will entail this year. “Websites, Internet users, and online communities will come together to sound the alarm about the FCC’s attack on net neutrality,” the protest website says. “We'll provide tools for everyone to make it super easy for your followers / visitors to take action.”
The protest day is set five days before the first deadline for comments on the FCC’s proposal, a move that also mimics the 2014 protest. Ultimately, the Democrat-led FCC decided in 2015 to use strong Title II regulations to enforce net neutrality. The current FCC, led by Trump-appointed chairman Ajit Pai, is now attempting to do away with those rules.
Today, Amazon announced that it’s offering a discount on Prime membership for US customers participating in a number of government assistance programs. Anyone with a valid Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) card, which disburses funds for programs like Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, or food stamps), is eligible for Prime’s discounted monthly price of $5.99. Prime’s normal price is a $99 a year, or a monthly fee of $10.99.
“We designed this membership option for customers receiving government assistance to make our everyday selection and savings more accessible,” says Greg Greeley, vice president of Amazon Prime. Customers will need to have a current EBT card to enroll and the card cannot be used to pay the monthly membership fee. Those who qualify for the discount can apply once a year, up to four times.
This announcement is the latest in several recent moves Amazon has made to appeal to lower-income households and become a direct competitor to Walmart. Last year, it introduced the $10.99 monthly payment option, and earlier this year it announced the decision to start accepting food stamps for online grocery orders beginning this summer.
Amazon says it is working on ways to include other government-assisted programs in the future that do not utilize EBT cards.
Later this month, Nintendo will launch Arms on Switch, a fighting game with an eclectic cast of characters reminiscent of Blizzard’s megahit shooter Overwatch. While the games are built on different genres, one key similarity between the two is the variety of their rosters. That was by design.
“As this is a game where characters fight each other, we thought that it was extremely important to have this kind of diversity for the players,” explains art director Masaaki Ishikawa, “so that they had something to latch on to.”
The cast of Arms is fairly small by fighting game standards. There are 10 fighters in all, including several who aren’t human. But while the developer says it treated diversity as an important aspect of the character design process, Ishikawa believes Nintendo can do even better in the future.
Related
“Our keywords in developing these characters were the fact that they have stretchy arms, but also their own unique personality,” he says. “So we’re not sure if we reached the level of diversity that we could have, but moving forward that’s going to be something that we take into account with our character design.”
Arms launches on Nintendo Switch on June 16th.
Brown Girls, the critically acclaimed OpenTV web series that debuted on Elle’s website in February, is headed to HBO.
Screenwriter Fatimah Asghar and director Samantha Bailey discussed the deal in an interview with Elle this morning, emphasizing the “grassroots” origins of the project — group brainstorming on Facebook and friends volunteering to come down to the set to do work for free. The series, set in Chicago, will be translated to HBO with this same DIY spirit, Asghar says: ”It's a city that is very mercurial, resourceful, and sly in a way that I love. I want to carry some of that over to television. We don't want a show that is flashy and smooth. We want a show that is gritty. That has this kind of realness to it.”
Asghar is best known for this project and her popular contemporary poetry. Bailey has also garnered attention for another OpenTV web series You’re So Talented, as well as an upcoming partnership with Chance the Rapper and Jamila Woods, coordinating a music video they hope will be directed by a high school student, in collaboration with Chicago Public Schools. Bailey tells Elle that music will be an important part of the HBO series, noting, “Chicago has an amazing music scene and we were lucky to include a bunch of artists in our series. All but one were Chicago-based and all of them were women of color.”
This marks HBO’s third high-profile web series pickup, following Issa Rae’s Insecure (originally the YouTube series Awkward Black Girl) and Katja Blichfeld and Ben Sinclair’s High Maintenance (originally on Vimeo). It’s a move that seems to be doing well for them, particularly in the case of Insecure, which was a critical hit and has already propelled Rae to mainstream stardom. She’s reportedly in talks to write the Tumblr-inspired screenplay for Ava DuVernay’s Rihanna and Lupita N’yongo-led caper film.
Brown Girls is centered on the friendship between Leila (Nabila Hossain), a queer Muslim woman, and Patricia (Sonia Denis), a young black woman, as they explore their identities and contextualize their relationships. In an interview with Jezebel in February, Bailey said comparisons to Broad City and Girls weren’t entirely accurate, noting that Brown Girls “fall[s] in with Awkward Black Girl, with Insecure and Atlanta. These are young people of color who are fully involved in telling their version of their story.”
In today’s interview, Asghar referenced Rae again, saying, “Without Issa, and all the things she did to knock doors open, people would not have looked at us or taken us seriously. She kind of paved the way for us and we can do that for other folks. I hope we can do that for other girls.”
Flir is one of those companies that, even if you don’t know its name, you know its work. Almost any kind of infrared footage that you’ve seen, whether it’s of hot tires in Formula One, or the Boston Marathon bomber hiding in a boat, was captured with Flir cameras. But the company’s been growing a strong set of consumer tools over the last few years, with an increased focus on smartphone attachments.
The newest of those, the Flir One and the Flir One Pro, were announced this past year at CES. They are cameras that attach to your iPhone or USB-C Android phone. They each use two image sensors — the company’s Lepton sensor, which captures infrared light to measure heat, and a regular image sensor that captures visible light for detail — to create thermal images and videos that you can use for everything from home projects to just goofing off. They finally go on sale today at $199 and $399, respectively.
Why the big delta in price? The company sees the more basic, less capable Flir One as a product that satisfies a curiosity. Both it and the Pro have a 1440 x 1080 CMOS sensor, but the regular Flir One’s 80x60 thermal sensor is lower resolution than the Pro’s, and the companion smartphone app for the Flir One offers fewer customization options. It still gives you the basic abilities to do things like measure heat signatures, and essentially see in the dark, though.
The Flir One Pro, on the other hand, is the kind of thing you might be more inclined to buy if you have a legitimate need for the technology. Maybe you’re doing home renovations or fixing plumbing or you need a compact thermal imaging solution for your job but don’t want to spend thousands of dollars on Flir’s professional-grade cameras.
In that sense, splitting the Flir One into two devices was a smart move. People who just want to fool around with thermal imagery can get a Flir One for cheaper than before, and those who actually need the tech have a more advanced option that isn’t that much more expensive.
I’ve been using the Pro for a few days, and it’s a noticeable (if not revolutionary) improvement over the last version of the Flir One I tried back in 2015. The 640 x 480 CMOS sensor found in the old Flir One was good enough to create a legible representation of a given scene. The new Flir One Pro’s visible light sensor has more than double the resolution.
Combine that with the Pro’s new 160 x 120 thermal sensor, and you get sometimes startling amounts of detail when compared to what Flir’s consumer products have offered in the past. That’s not just a higher number on the page. The boost in resolution makes it easier to understand what you’re actually looking at in these thermal images. They’re less likely to just look like blobs of blue and red. The outlines of shapes are more distinct, and people’s eyes, for example, now pop in a very noticeable way.
Now, the images that the Pro’s visible light sensor takes are still a far cry from what your smartphone’s integrated camera is capable of. But you could use one of these photos in a pinch, especially in a work environment where quality is secondary to just capturing detail.
The Flir One Pro has more options than ever for tinkering in the app. But the best thing about the way the app broadly works is that nothing’s ever final — you can always go back after taking a picture and decide to remove the thermal information, or add new temperature measurement points, or adjust the mix of detail and heat.
There’s a lot of control at your fingerprints, even if some parts of the app still need work — the interface for adding multiple heat measurement points is a mess, for example. Flir has spent the last few years building a robust and dynamic system for something that is only ever going to occupy a niche. It’s still not perfect, but it’s better than ever.

Fidgetspin is a one-trick site, designed around a fad likely to fade into obscurity before the year’s end. It lets visitors spin a virtual fidget spinner. No more, no less. Similar to sites like chihuahuaspin, tacospin, or leekspin, its enjoyment is brief, dependent on your discovery, and likely to disappear from your brain the second you click away.
Sites like these continue to exist in their own tiny corner of the web, long after their moment of viral fame as part of the “useless internet” — a term that extends beyond a simple spinning pupper or foodstuff. As a genre, useless internet isn’t even limited by form. It could be a standalone website, an abstract Flash game, a forgotten soundboard. It’s almost always a punchline with no setup.
Like a potato chip, it’s a challenge to enjoy one without craving another. Fortunately, there are thousands to choose from, whether you want to watch a disastrously spilling ketchup bottle, find out whether or not it’s dark outside, catch your hand in a gum fingertrap, stare endlessly at your favorite bucket meme, or watch gnomes party. Thiswebsitesaysitall.com is literally a website that says “it all.” “Endless.horse” is a horse, depicted through keyboard glyphs, that scrolls endlessly. Eelslap.com is an interactive photo of a guy getting smacked with an eel, while Beesbeesbees.com is a looping GIF of Oprah unleashing bees upon a studio audience.
As with any good viral content, they spread by word of mouth online. People share links on message boards, send funny sites to friends, or post them to social media. Through the web’s connected presence, they make the rounds. People move on to other distractions.
A single person collecting them in one place is a Sisyphean task, but a collective is far more suited to the challenge. Over the years, sites like The Useless Web Index have removed the heavy lifting of finding these forgotten sites. They aren’t built like a library, however. Instead, they re-create the context of any bit of useless internet: click a button and you’re flung to a random site in the directory.
A developer from Germany who goes by Martin created The Useless Web Index — a site that touts itself as “the world’s largest index of useless websites” — in 2015. He says it started after he and a few work friends spent their lunch break on their very own time-waster of a site, devoted to a former colleague’s cats.
It began as a database with a subdomain list. “At the beginning there was just a short text and a simple button that promoted a random useless website to the user, but I quickly realized that I had to offer more for recurring [visitors],” he says. “Now users can participate by adding pages, and after a short check they´re part of the index.”
To date, The Useless Web Index houses more than 1,000 sites. About 75 percent of the contributions were suggested by users. Martin says he spends about five hours a week maintaining the site: archiving useless sites, checking mail, logging files, and creating new posts for a “most useless website of the week” feature.
For Martin, the investment is about more than a collection of digital goofs. “The internet is full of useless websites and to me it’s not about how long you stay on one of them,” he says. “Sometimes you spend only 10 seconds and get something to talk about for years.”
Martin has become something of a connoisseur of the useless web. He points to a site featuring a man screaming “Dan!” — a joke that has become a running gag for one of his own friends named Dan. “A perfect useless website,” Martin explains, “has to be simple and straight to the point.”
Martin is joined by a small community that is trying to collect, if not outright preserve, the useless internet. In the mid-‘90s, there was The Useless Pages, a now-defunct collection of sites The New York Times called a home for “ruminations on the Web as a garbage depository.” PointlessSites broasts that it only features sites that are “pointless and useless,” but with a “family friendly” flair. On Reddit, the subreddit InternetIsUseless is home to just over 700 users. Members share sites they find, many of which have a purpose so simple you can guess it from the URL alone, like po.ta.to (just a photo of a potato), or whereisthesloth.com (locate a sloth). YouTube channel DONG posted a video just last month, where host Michael Stevens highlights several sites that serve rather singular purposes, like a “wiki” for muscles or a site in which you try to click in intervals perfectly timed to a second.
Developer Tim Holman launched The Useless Web, a site that redirects users to a random useless site, in 2012. It’s enjoyed cycles of popularity since its creation. “Sometimes someone will create and share a new ‘useless’ website, which will remind people of the useless web, and that will kick it off again,” Holman says. He explains that from March until mid-May, the site has garnered more than 5 million views, with an average session lasting about eight minutes.
“Since its creation, people have spent a total of 1,040 years of viewing,” he says, adding, “Damn.”
Holman says he continues to comb through The Useless Web’s catalog once or twice a month to make sure everything still runs. “Whenever I go through, I try to add more than I take out,” he says. “I've literally received thousands of submissions over time.” It’s been shared by a huge variety of people, he says: developers he respects, YouTubers, internet users old and young. “I think everyone saw something a little different in it. Some see it as art, some see it as a funny joke.”
But as a genre, the sites congeal into something more. “I think [useless internet is a] testament to the creativity of each individual site, and that sparks excitement and imagination in the people using it... which is why I think it’s stood the test of time this long. Damn, that sounds so corny.”
The Useless Web has even inspired creators to add more strange sites to the web. Murat Mutlu — creator of the “Dan” site that Martin is fond of, and longtime fan of viral one-hit wonders — blogged about how it urged him to create his own gag. Mutlu tells The Verge he still pays to host the “super useless” site. “It's that small hit of goodness for a few seconds — doesn't even pretend to want your brain to work,” he says of useless sites. “Get your hit then leave.”
For such a small payoff, the act of creating the site and continuing to pay for a domain seems like an unequal amount of effort. But many creators of useless sites, as well as these catalogers of useless internet, credit this genre as some of the most popular work they’ve ever created. Or, in the case of Mike Bodge, who made the “heeeeeeeey” “hooooooooo” site, the most popular thing he’s ever made online. He calls the very idea of The Useless Web “a bit of a cheeky name.” Perhaps, despite their brief schticks, they’re not as good-for-nothing as they seem.
“All of these sites are useless in the fact that they don't need to exist, but to me these weird, experimental sites are a piece of the internet that we're losing as social network news feeds vacuum up all of people's time,” Bodge says. “The internet is a lot less interesting these days, and sites on The Useless Web are fighting against that by being simple and subversive.”


This morning, Nintendo revealed the latest entries to the Pokémon game family: Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, new versions of Pokémon Sun and Moon that are coming to the Nintendo 3DS on November 17th. Few details were revealed about the remakes, but Ultra Sun and Moon will feature a new storyline and presumably additional features — and pokémon — as well. Expect to hear more about the games at E3 in Los Angeles next week.
The games will launch almost exactly a year after the originals. Sun and Moon debuted on the Nintendo 3DS on November 18th last year, and introduced several changes that made the experience much more laid-back and inviting than past entries in the series. The games rode a wave of pokémania — led in large part by the success of Pokémon Go — to impressive sales, becoming the fastest-selling Nintendo games ever in Europe and the Americas.
The series is also making its way to the Switch — though not in the form of the long-rumored Pokémon Stars. Nintendo also revealed that arcade fighter Pokken Tournament is making its way to the console on September 22nd. That same day, Game Boy classics Pokémon Gold and Silver will be available on the Nintendo 3DS virtual console.
Microsoft has said before that it plans to support mixed reality headsets on Xbox One and the upcoming Project Scorpio console in 2018, but the company won’t even be teasing its VR plans at E3 this year. In an interview with Polygon, Microsoft technical fellow Alex Kipman says Microsoft is focused solely on mixed reality for Windows 10 PCs at the moment.
“We believe that right now a Windows PC is the best platform for mixed reality as its open ecosystem and enormous installed base offer the best opportunity for developers, and Windows offers the most choices for consumers,” explains Kipman. “Windows has been the birthplace of a variety of technologies, and we believe this will hold for mixed reality too. Given the efforts we have underway on Windows for mixed reality, and our belief that console VR should be wireless, right now we are focused on developing mixed reality experiences for the PC, not on the console.”
Kipman’s hint of a wireless headset for Xbox console gaming suggests that Microsoft is holding off on bringing its planned mixed reality headsets to its gaming console. Dell, Lenovo, HP, Asus, and Acer are all planning to release mixed reality devices later this year, but these all need to be tethered to a Windows 10 PC. When Microsoft first unveiled Project Scorpio, Xbox chief Phil Spencer said the console would be “built with the hardware capabilities to support the high-end VR that you see happening in the PC space today.” Microsoft’s mixed messages don’t provide much hope for VR on Xbox any time soon, and the company refused to clarify to Polygon whether its plans for wireless headsets would impact the 2018 promise for mixed reality headsets on Xbox One.
Apple CEO Tim Cook says President Donald Trump made the wrong decision when he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate agreement last week.
After much speculation and lobbying from both sides, the president kept his campaign promise to withdraw, though he said he was open to negotiating a deal that is more fair. (After the press conference, France, Germany, and Italy issued a joint statement saying that the agreement can’t be negotiated, according to The Associated Press.)
Speaking to Bloomberg at the company’s annual WWDC conference in San Jose, California, yesterday, Cook said that Trump “decided wrong.”
“I think it’s not in the best interest of the United States what he decided,” he said. “But in terms of, ‘do you interact with politicians or do you not,’ my view is that first and foremost things are about, can you help your country and if you can help your country and you do that by interacting, then you do it. The country eclipses politics.”
Cook personally called Trump to try to convince the president not to withdraw from the climate agreements. He was far from the only tech industry leader who tried to sway Trump. Ahead of the decision, the execs of 25 major companies’ executives all signed a letter in favor of the agreement that was published as a full-page ad in The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal. Tesla CEO Elon Musk also had hoped that Trump would remain.
In the wake of the decision, Musk has now left the president’s advisory council due to the decision. Many Silicon Valley leaders — including the CEOs of Microsoft, Facebook, and Google — have all said they remain committed to the agreement, and three US states have created a coalition to fight climate change.


Logitech has released a keyboard case for the new 10.5-inch iPad Pro. The Logitech Slim Combo features a hard case with an adjustable stand, a detachable full-size, backlit keyboard and a row of shortcuts, and a holder for the Apple Pencil.
The case doesn’t need to be charged, as it draws power directly from your iPad through the Smart Connector. The keyboard palm rest can be folded under to shrink the footprint (if you’re typing on your lap, for example), or you can fold over the entire keyboard to protect the display while on the go.
The Logitech Slim Combo will cost you $129 for the 10.5-inch version, which is $30 cheaper than Apple’s Smart Keyboard. The company has also made a version for the 12.9-inch iPad Pro, which comes in at $149, a $20 discount over Apple’s keyboard case.
You can purchase the Slim Combo today from Logitech and from Apple’s online and physical stores.
DH Gate is selling a Pokémon Pikachu Portable USB phone charger for anyone who wants to combine their love of this mouse-like electric mascot with a full battery. The plug, spotted by RocketNews24, is currently running at a sale price of $25.72. It includes a USB charging cable and a Pikachu adapter that plugs directly into your wall.
In theory, a Pikachu powering up your phone is an adorable partnership. The adapter’s little ears slip off to reveal its charging prongs. The ad includes a sweet illustration of a tiny Pikachu sticking its ears into a socket (which would feel good, I guess?). And it’s a way cuter option than something like an Elekid, even if said pokémon literally has a plug for a head. But, here’s what it actually looks like in use.
Hmm. I mean it... um. Ah.
Other Pikachu chargers have been made, but I’d like to note that they generally plugged into more PG spots, like its leg. It doesn’t help that Pikachu itself looks so angry, as opposed to its usually sunny smile.
This is not an official pokémon item, and there’s no guarantee it won’t burn down your house. The plug also requires a specific type of outlet that you may or may not have. But if you’re looking for a final verdict on whether or not to pick up this item, let the Pikachu featured in these images speak for themselves.
General Electric has just released a music video about “energy and the flow of it,” featuring a song by EDM artist Gryffin and a cameo by Mackenzie Ziegler. According to a PR rep for GE, the video’s official premiere was at 6AM this morning at a three-hour yoga and dance party at a nightclub in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
Gryffin is best known for collaborations with Scottish pop band Chvrches and Australian YouTube-star-turned-pop-singer Troye Sivan. Mackenzie Ziegler is the younger sister of Maddie Ziegler, the frequent muse and sometimes avatar for reclusive pop star Sia, and both were once the meme-worthy young stars of TLC’s Dance Moms. Mackenzie, in my opinion, was way more fun, as she basically admitted she hated dancing, plus her teeth were a little messed-up and very adorable. Good for her, getting that sweet GE money.
The song, called “Illuminate,” is fine. The video, which “showcase[s] the many parts of the power grid through music and movement,” is hard to follow. Beams of light make up windmills, solar panels, nuclear reactors, and the aforementioned power grid, while the accompanying text reads, “We work to move the grid because the grid moves us all.” The lights from the various GE energy sources outline the dancers’ limbs while they move, implying (in tandem with the text) that GE powers the muscles of human bodies, pulling on their bones. That is true in some situations: when someone’s interacting with a defibrillator, or wearing a pacemaker.
Why did GE do this? Good question. GE sent me this music video in an email with the subject line, “Why is GE collaborating with an EDM artist and dance troupe?” and then proceeded to answer its own question with this: “In the next 20 years, there will be nearly an 80 percent increase in the demand for electricity. As an expert supplier of a third of the world’s power, GE’s role in maintaining the flow of energy through the electric grid is critical. This complex transmission is a choreographed dance that happens invisibly, everyday.” This metaphor works for me kind of, but I’m also a little freaked out now about the world’s energy demands.
Enjoy! It’s 45 seconds long.
Update: Updated June 6th 11:15 AM EST to include media brief from GE.
The next rover that NASA plans to send to Mars in 2020 has a big job to do: gather and prepare samples from the Red Planet that can eventually be returned to Earth. It’s the first step toward a coveted “Mars sample return” — one of the highest priorities in the planetary science community right now. The only problem? There is no second step planned. Currently, the space agency doesn’t have a procedure for getting these samples off Mars and back to our own planet.
That’s a huge problem, according to the Planetary Society, which released a white paper today analyzing the current state of NASA’s Mars Exploration Program. It’s the space agency’s long-term initiative to explore the Red Planet with satellites, rovers, and landers. However, the paper, titled “Mars in Retrograde,” paints a fairly bleak picture of the program’s future. After suffering underinvestment over the past decade, the program has seen cutbacks, such as the cancellation of a few planned missions. And essentially, NASA’s exploration of Mars comes to a halt after the Mars 2020 rover, since there are no official follow-up missions in the works.
The Planetary Society argues that now is the time to start developing new missions to Mars if we want to keep up the amazing science that the US has done at the planet. To continue our study of Mars, we’re going to need a new orbiter to provide communication capabilities, as well as a vehicle to get any future samples off of Mars. And since planetary missions take many years to come to fruition, we’d need to get started on these vehicles sooner rather than later in order to have them ready in the mid-2020s or 2030s.
For now, though, it looks increasingly likely that these new missions could fall by the wayside. The president’s 2018 budget request for NASA doesn’t call for the development of any new Mars mission — and it may be difficult to start anything new in the future, too. NASA is facing flat budgets for the next five years, without any adjustments for inflation, according to a report in Space News. So the funds for new vehicles may be scarce. The Planetary Society says if that’s the case, we could be facing a significant gap in US exploration of Mars in the decades to come.
“Right now we are unconsciously setting ourselves up for a very difficult Mars program in the 2020s, because of all these immediate needs,” Casey Dreier, director of space policy at the Planetary Society, tells The Verge. “We don’t want to have a problem where we’ve prepared these samples and then they just rot on the ground because we’re unable to commit to bringing them back.”
Dreier argues that, above all, the most immediate need is the development of a new Mars telecommunications orbiter. Any future spacecraft we send to the Red Planet is going to need a way to communicate with mission teams on Earth. Right now, NASA has three operational satellites orbiting Mars, but only two — the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter and Mars Odyssey — are primarily used for telecommunications. And these vehicles are getting old. Both orbiters have been at Mars for more than a decade and have lasted much longer than the span of their primary missions. By the time spacecraft are sent to retrieve samples from Mars, these satellites may have broken down and have stopped functioning. There are other orbiters circling Mars, operated by NASA and other space agencies, but these satellites are primarily aimed at doing science, and their orbits make them ill-suited for telecommunications, according to the Planetary Society.
It’s not just a Mars sample return vehicle that could use a new telecommunications orbiter, either. Basically any spacecraft that is sent to Mars is going to need a way to communicate with Earth. Currently, NASA is focused on sending people to Mars in the 2030s, but developing a new orbiter would put in place key infrastructure for a number of missions that NASA hopes to complete on and around the planet.
NASA has been studying a number of new orbiter concepts, but the Planetary Society says it’s time to commit to a design as soon as possible. “The ideal timeframe for an orbiter to start is yesterday,” says Dreier. In order to have an orbiter ready to launch by 2022 or 2024, funding needs to be included in the budget for fiscal year 2018. That’s still possible — though the president’s budget request has already been released, NASA’s final annual budget is decided by Congress later in the year. So there is potentially still time to include a new mission, even if, as Dreier says, funding ideally should have been provided in 2017.
Beyond a new orbiter, the Planetary Society says NASA should at least start to figure out how to create a vehicle that can get samples off the Red Planet. And that’s going to be a monumental task. A Mars sample return is going to require a vehicle that can land on Mars and then take back off again, and somehow, the samples will need to be transported to that vehicle while it’s on the surface.
Of course, there are still a lot facets of NASA’s policy that need to be decided, so these concerns may not make the top of the list. The space agency still doesn’t have a permanent administrator, and, at some point, a National Space Council will be formed to help decide the nation’s space policy. It’s still unclear the exact direction this administration wants to take NASA, too. Perhaps the agency could be directed to shift its focus from Mars to another destination. Still, the Planetary Society hopes to make policy makers aware of these problems now, in order prevent a potential gap in exploration moving forward. “We just want people to be conscious that this is a decision that needs to be made and not have it be one that’s made for us by inattentiveness,” says Dreier. “There are lots of immediate problems [at NASA], but this is an immediate problem that has longer term consequences. We’re trying to raise awareness so that we can help this decision right now.”




Among the many announcements at WWDC yesterday, Apple cut the cost of its 2TB iCloud storage plan in half — from $19.99 a month to $9.99. This replaces the now-defunct 1TB plan that was previously offered at that price point.
That leaves three options for iCloud pricing now: $0.99 per month for 50GB of storage, $2.99 per for 200GB, and $9.99 per month for 2TB. Free storage (unfortunately) is stuck at a mere 5GB for now.
That 2TB plan is also potentially more useful, given that Apple also announced that family members using iCloud Family Sharing together will be able to split a single subscription for iCloud storage across every member of the family in iOS 11 and macOS High Sierra.
$9.99 for 2TB of storage is a pretty good deal when compared to competitors: Google Drive and Dropbox charge a similar $9.99 per month, but for only 1TB of storage, while  Microsoft OneDrive maxes out at 1TB for $6.99 a month (although that also includes a copy of Office 365).
The 2TB plan is available now at the new price point, and any users who had been subscribed to the 1TB plan for $9.99 per month will automatically be upgraded to the 2TB plan.
Each June, the video game industry congregates in downtown Los Angeles and, with the help of some very loud house music and celebrity guests, reveals a flurry of new big-budget sequels and a handful of new ideas. And each June, a few weeks ahead of said event, with no EDM or celeb support, I shamelessly attempt to predict those announcements, making informed guesses from a mix of rumors, leaks, and tea leaves.
This year, friends, I will shirk my humility and confess I’m feeling pretty confident. Partly because publishers have vaguely confirmed rumors through investment calls. Mostly because long-in-development video games (of which there are plenty) must be announced eventually. Why shouldn’t E3 2017 be the place Nintendo commits to a new Pokémon? Or Bethesda finally makes its Elder Scrolls-but-in-space official?
I suppose that’s as practical a place to start as any.
With the publisher committed to Elder Scrolls Online, I wonder if it may be a while before we see another formal entry in that franchise. What seems more likely is continued support of Fallout 4, along with the reveal of Starfield, the long-rumored game that transplants the publisher’s role-playing foundation onto a sci-fi setting.
Bethesda filed for a Starfield trademark in 2013, but little has been heard since. However in a recent interview with Polygon, Bethesda’s executive producer Todd Howard had this to say about the studio’s future plans: “We have so many ideas that we didn't think we were ready for. But given our size now and how the tech is coming together, we can do some of the things that we've talked about for a very long time. Now they are within our grasp."
A sequel to Wolfenstein: The New Order has been teased since October of last year (and possibly E3 2016). As for The Evil Within, rumors of a sequel to the horror-adventure circulated in March, following a leaked job listing. My Fallout prediction is, to be transparent, coming entirely from the gut.
But I have some context clues. Bethesda’s Fallout Shelter, a massively popular mobile game hit, was originally announced at E3. What better place to reveal a sequel? Then there’s the question of what comes after Fallout 4. The open-world game cost many millions of dollars to produce, and though it has outperformed the studio’s previous champ, Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, it stands to reason a publisher will want to milk the investment even further. Fallout 5 is unlikely, but maybe we’ll see more of the series in the form of a spinoff, like Fallout New Vegas, or an expansive multiplayer mode, as Rockstar has done with its money-printing machine, Grand Theft Auto Online.
Nintendo has a hit in the Switch, but with few releases on the calendar, the hardware’s future is still little murky. Going into E3, we aren’t sure how third-party developers will support the system. As with the Wii U, the burden will (at least until EA, Activision, and Ubisoft reveal a plan) fall on the publisher. Nintendo can only produce so many titles on its own, so expect lots of remakes and remasters, which are comparably cheap and quick to produce.
It’s certainly possible that a new Smash Bros. will be announced. Nintendo has worked with a variety of developers on the series, meaning its development wouldn’t require too much involvement from the publisher’s internal team. But judging from Mario Kart 8, Splatoon 2, and the extended Wii U catalog, a remake or an “evolution” of a classic Smash Bros. title is more plausible. An updated version of Smash Bros. Melee, with an emphasis on competitive gaming, would fit snuggly into Nintendo’s ambitious plan for Switch to cut into the e-sports community.
EA’s open-world Star Wars game is all but confirmed. Developer Scott Warner hinted at the project two years ago on Twitter. (He has since left Visceral for Oculus, and deleted those tweets somewhere along the way.) At E3 2016, EA showed a glimpse of “early in-game footage” for the unnamed project.
And over the years, EA has assembled big-name talent around the title. Game director and writer Amy Hennig, who left Uncharted developer Naughty Dog in 2014 and joined Visceral the same year, has spoken vaguely about her work on the Star Wars project. Jade Raymond, formerly executive producer on Assassin’s Creed at Ubisoft, founded Motive Studios for EA. It was revealed that her team would be co-developing the project with Hennig’s Visceral for a 2018 release.
I thought EA would announce this project in 2015; surely they’ll give it a name and trailer in 2017.
Since its release last fall, Sony has sold over a million PlayStation VR headsets. At the same time, the company used VR to leverage sales of its new PS4 Pro, promising better virtual reality performance when paired with the superior hardware. Microsoft has already announced a suite of mixed reality headsets. And it has a new console in need of a raison d’être beyond 4K gaming.
Sure, VR may look to some folks like a fad. But if Microsoft doesn’t use a headset to push the Scorpio (and likewise, use the console to sell its mixed reality platform) then the company will be leaving money on the table.
Some math: a new Halo has been published, on average, every three years, and they tend to be announced at least a year ahead of release. Halo 5 was released in 2015. It’s 2017. At the very least, Microsoft will tease Halo 6. At most, it will use Master Chief to champion its “cross play” strategy, promising competition between Xbox One, Scorpio, and Windows 10.
Now that Sony has released The Last Guardian, Beyond Good and Evil 2 is the game most likely to be confirmed every E3 as “not dead.” I won’t go so far as to predict a trailer, let alone a release date. (Creator Michel Ancel has said the game won’t make a formal appearance.) Instead, I expect Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot will whisper, in the middle of an interview, that the game isn’t dead, and they can’t wait to show everybody when the time is right.
This is a long shot. In May, a rumor claimed that an announcement of Shadow of the Tomb Raider would come this year, but after E3. We already knew Crystal Dynamics, the developer behind the Tomb Raider reboot, had moved on to The Avengers — one of Square Enix’s many Marvel projects.
Square Enix said in January that more information about The Avengers would be announced in 2018. But with the future of Sleeping Dogs, Deus Ex, and Hitman in question, Square Enix has few other projects to show from its Western studios. Presumably, it’s still early days on most Marvel projects. But that hasn’t stopped studios in the past from rolling out a flash cinematic teaser.



Update, June 6th: The most recent update adds PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds and What Remains of Edith Finch.
I am a sucker for end-of-year lists. They’re positive, celebratory, and useful. But too often, lists are backloaded with fall releases. A book published in January? A video game released in March? They’ll need luck and a good publicist to score best-of list slots come December.
I empathize with annual curators. Given the constant deluge of new titles, each arriving with their own noisy hype, it can be a struggle to remember a TV show or a film from 11 months ago. So this year, I’ve decided to keep a journal of my favorite video games, a public way to collect the year’s finest.
The format is inspired by Thrillist’s ongoing list of the year’s best movies. Critic Matt Patches only catalogs the stuff he can recommend 100 percent. “No mixed-bags,” he writes, “[or] interesting train-wrecks.” My list won’t be quite as definitive. I love train-wrecks; I live for mixed bags.
I’ll be updating my list as often as I can — hopefully I’ll have plenty of games to add. I’d love it if you joined me in this experiment. I’m opening the comments so you, dear reader, can share your favorite games as the year goes on.
Dates refer to when I began each game, and may not align with release dates. This is not a definitive list for The Verge. I am only adding games as I play them. If you feel something is missing, please recommend it in the comments.
Am I breaking the rules when I confess that I decided to add Battlegrounds to this list before I actually played the game? I came to it, like so many fans, as a spectator. I’ve since begun playing, and while I enjoy being obliterated by strangers, I am certain my interest will last far longer as a viewer than a player.
What makes it astonishing as an e-sport — or any sport — is the accessibility of its rules. Enjoyment isn’t predicated on understanding arcane strategy, impenetrable mythos, weapon and perk sets, or the word “meta.” Rather like traditional sports, Battlegrounds is radically simple: stay in the shrinking field of play, collect materials to survive, defeat enemies, and be the last person standing.
Battlegrounds uses a cliched premise because its familiarity is foundational — similar to the way a sport uses a ball and a goal. A mob of players fighting to the death on a 25-square-mile island is as structurally compelling as it is laughably familiar. Yes, film fans, it’s basically Battle Royale or Hunger Games. Yes, game nerds, it looks an awful lot like Arma and Day Z. Battlegrounds isn’t an original idea, I’ll grant you that. But it is a familiar idea crafted exceptionally.
At Waypoint Bruno Dias writes that each Battlegrounds live stream is imbued with the pace and tension of a horror film. That’s an astute point, but I’ll go a step further and say that it’s Battlegrounds steadied pace that will, looking into the long term, allow it to become one of the most watchable e-sports of this decade. Whether you like games or not, the visual language of Battlegrounds is familiar from decades of action movies. And because its action is slow, a video editor can — like the magicians at NFL Films do for pro football — splice together the teamwork of a four-person squad into an thrilling match for an audience of people who’ve never played the game.
Whether or not Battlegrounds is the best game I played in 2017 is irrelevant; it’s the best video game I’ve watched — ever.
Available on PC.
Around the release of What Remains of Edith Finch, video game academic, essayist, and lovable provocateur Ian Bogost inspired a kerfuffle with the controversially titled The Atlantic essay “Video Games Are Better Without Stories.”
“If there is a future of games, let alone a future in which they discover their potential as a defining medium of an era,” Bogost concluded, “it will be one in which games abandon the dream of becoming narrative media and pursue the one they are already so good at: taking the tidy, ordinary world apart and putting it back together again in surprising, ghastly new ways.”
Finch is an argument that games can be both. Shaped like a musky short story collection, the game sends the player deep into the Seussian house of the Finch clan, and its family tree, of which each branch has a tragic end. By spelunking the rooms of lost relatives, the player is launched, through time, to relive a series of final moments. The vignettes borrow style from the kings of horror shorts — Edgar Allen Poe, Ray Bradbury, Stephen King — along with other short fiction masters, like Tobias Wolff and Lorrie Moore.
Finch’s storytelling never approaches the literary highs of its inspirations (a very high bar, to be fair) but it does offer something the writing alone can not. Space. A livable, breathable, touchable space.
Where great literature breaks apart the world, then leaves the reader’s mind to fill in the blanks, Finch offers a meticulously designed space to investigate and explore and experience. Perhaps that sounds lacking in imagination; I assure you, it is not. These pulpy stories feel lived in and immediate, because Finch’s designers have turned them into little fidget objects, and placed them into your hand.
In one of the game’s final stories, you must navigate a dreamworld of puzzles with one side of the controller, while chopping fish heads in a factory with the other. Rapidly, the dream takes over the screen, but the real-world obligation never goes away, nor does it become any less dangerous. The sequence is not subtle: it’s an ode to and warning of the sheer power of games to transport us into new, impossible spaces.
Available on PS4 and PC.
I’ve whined for years about action games that star the same bald dude fighting the same one-dimensional villains, using the same rocket launcher and machine guns. Indie games have been a counterpoint for more than a decade, but big-budget games have been slower to stray from the pack. Gravity Rush 2 is one of a few recent AAA games to break the cycle. All its most powerful characters are women. Its antagonists are embodiments of income disparity and personal grief. And the main character never fires a gun. It has some tacky fan service, and missions can be repetitive, but these are small flaws in a weird video game that’s truly unlike anything else on the market.
Our review digs into the game’s creative use of an open-world environment:
Walls, rooftops, and the underbellies of the constructions are speckled with a pink gem currency that upgrades Kat’s powers and provides the minimum excuse to investigate the nooks and crannies of every building. This would be tedious if not for the game’s ecstatic sense of momentum. Besides falling, Kat has the power to slide across surfaces in any direction — it feels sort of like grinding in Tony Hawk Pro Skater or Jet Set Radio. Slipping up a 50-story clock tower, then free falling over the other side never loses its thrill.

Available on PS4.
I don’t know how I missed the Yakuza series. I raised myself as a diehard Sega fanboy, only shedding my allegiance during the fall of the Sega Dreamcast. As a spiritual follow-up to that console’s ambitious, unfinished Shenmu series, Yakuza floated at the top of my to-do list. But then there was high school, college, my first job, my second job, marriage, and all the other games that I, for one reason or another, prioritized above the adventures of a man with nice suits and impressive back tattoos. Yakuza 0 has been a treat, a throwback to what I remember of Sega games in the late 1990s and early 2000s. It’s a melodramatic soap opera with violence that has the sensory pleasure of popping bubble wrap or cracking open a can of beer.
Our review by Andrew Webster describes the game’s old-school structure:
Yakuza 0 does a lot of things that modern games shy away from. It features cutscenes that can span many minutes, and lots of text-heavy dialogue you’ll need to pore over. There’s plenty of repetition, with occasionally excessive amounts of battles and missions that boil down to boring fetch quests. A lot of the time you’re simply running from one place to the next. It even has long and frequent load times that harken back to another era. It can take some getting used to, but eventually Yakuza 0 settles into a pleasing rhythm. Beat up some bad guys, watch some cutscenes, and then relax with a visit to the batting cages. Instead of making the game feel dated, these aspects give it a distinct sense of charm. It’s not perfect, but it’s unlike anything else being made today.
Available on PS4.
I love the very idea of Hatsune Miku and open-source rock stars. I hope we see more “virtual” musicians, a model that could democratize pop singles without sacrificing a teenager to the music industry in the process.
Hatsune Miku Project Diva Future Tone is the culmination of a solid rhythm-game series that collects music created by Miku producers and fans. If Yakuza 0 is the entry point into the Yakuza series, then I recommend Future Tone for anyone curious about the Miku phenomenon.
Along with Final Fantasy XV and The Last Guardian in December, this winter has been crowded with great video games from Japanese developers. Maybe I should have listened to Kotaku’s Jason Schreier, who’s been tracking the abundance of RPGs and interactive-fiction releases over the past few years.
That said, all four games have an irritating deference for fan service: Cidney’s costume in Final Fantasy XV, the lecherous snapshot mission in Gravity Rush 2, female “pain sponges” in Yakuza 0, and skimpy bikini costumes meant for Future Tone’s cast of underage girls. January’s best games are fantastic in their own ways, but I can’t think of another month in which I was so reluctant to play games while we had guests in the house.
Available on PS4.
It’s fitting that January should end with one more game from a Japanese developer, this time Capcom saving the Resident Evil series from a convoluted mythos and years of regressive action-game design. Resident Evil 7 trades the third-person perspective of previous entries for a first-person viewpoint. What could have been an over-the-top zombie shooter is a legitimately frightening horror game. The dark corridors of a Southern plantation borrow heavily from TV shows like True Detective and American Horror Story. But the game is most indebted to indie horror games like Amnesia and Outlast, which kept the horror flame lit while Capcom floundered with Resident Evil 5, Resident Evil 6, and a handful of remakes and spinoffs.
In our review, Andrew Webster praises the nauseating detail of the scenery:
The Baker home, in particular, is a gorgeously grotesque place, where simply wandering around and looking at things — cages whose use is best left to the imagination, or disturbingly bloodstained bathrooms — can foster a powerful sense of dread.
Available on PC, PS4, and Xbox One.
For a decade, the developer Guerrilla Games and its hundreds of employees spent tremendous time, money, and energy on Killzone, a franchise damned by a generic title and bland premise. A space army fights space Nazi-stand-ins through a handful of games that served largely as graphical showpieces for Sony’s PlayStation consoles. The games weren’t bad, but they were forgettable, largely running towards the goal posts established by the genre king of the last generation, Call of Duty.
Horizon is the first game from the studio since Killzone. Phil Kollar at Polygon wrote in his review, “Horizon Zero Dawn is a refreshing change of pace for Guerrilla Games. While playing it, I couldn't shake the feeling that this game was made by people excited to be working on it, and that excitement was contagious.” And that’s true. But what surprises me most about Horizon is how much it builds of the technical skill acquired through the Killlzone series.
Guerrilla Games learned to design beautiful scenery, write competent human drama, and design a really tangible and responsive form of combat through Killzone. And then, crucially, they didn’t throw the baby out with the bathwater. Rather, Horizon feels like a studio unburdened from a flagging genre, a meaningless sci-fi setting, and one of video games’ drabbest color palettes. The result is a creative riff on the evermore popular open world roleplaying genre, set in a fascinating “post post apocalyptic world,” drenched in color, and sprinkled with lovable characters. Horizon is absolutely fantastic, and I can’t imagine it happening without the games that came before it.
Available on PS4.
A game like Hidden Folks justifies this diary experiment. The app doesn’t have hundreds of side-quests, a fully explorable open world, or expensive 3D models. It doesn’t even have color. A black-and-white riff on the hidden objects genre, Hidden Folks is modest and charming. It’s also steeped in a potent nostalgia, albeit in a manner unlike its contemporaries. You won’t find beloved characters or pixel graphics. The nostalgia on offer is akin to that of coloring books, which have had their own resurgence in popularity. Opening the app is transportive, returning you to the time you sifted through a copy of Where’s Waldo, waiting for your Mom at the salon. Or when you combed every page of Highlights at the doctor’s office. Creator Adriaan de Jongh previously designed Bounden, a game that used a smartphone to turn strangers into dance partners. It was a game that asked you to look outward, to connect. Hidden Folks is Bounden’s inverse. A game that has you quietly searching through a tiny collective image from our childhoods. It points you inwards. Yes, it’s cute and silly and simple, but Hidden Folks is something else, too: meditative.
Available on iOS and Steam.
One of my favorite conversations to have with friends about Breath of the Wild is to hear what they don’t like about the game. I know, it’s a cynical place to start, but the conversation naturally ramps to the same positive conclusion: “I hate this specific thing, but I can’t imagine the game without it.” The weapons degrade, but I love the danger of each battle. Thunderstorms turn Link into a lightning rod, but I love to use the weather against my enemies. The world is too big, but I love to get lost.
The love / hate tension speaks to Breath of the Wild’s audacity of design. Its directors have copped to trimming what didn’t work from Zelda, and yes, they deserve commendation for that. (Nintendo, more than most, is protective of its brands and its tradition.) But what I cherish about Breath of the Wild is how aggressively its creators have balked at assumptions about open worlds and a genre as a whole, assumptions that have been calcified over a decade of corporate risk management.
It seems silly to say a Zelda game is risky, but wow, this Zelda took risks that could have been, at almost every step, catastrophes easily mitigated with safer, proven design. When someone tells me they don’t like something in Zelda, often they mean I haven’t liked the execution of this idea in other games. But here, under the right guidance, and stripped to their essentials, rough ideas become polished, and big, risky, sometimes infuriating design is inseparable from an all but perfect adventure.
Available on Nintendo Switch and Wii U.
I met Zach Gage in 2009, when he made an art installation / game that randomly and permanently deleted files from its computer’s hard drive. Gage hasn’t stopped making capital-A art, but his oeuvre has expanded beyond museums and into debatably the most mainstream venue of our time: the App Store. In recent years, he’s released Sage Solitaire, Really Bad Chess, and Spelltower. You have almost certainly heard of one of them, if not played all of them.
What makes Gage’s life as a mobile game designer so fascinating is that it isn’t actually separate from his life as an artist. Gage takes the most familiar and played-out genres (a remake of Space Invaders, an update to Solitaire, a Milton Bradley board game, word puzzles) and contorts them into commentaries of themselves. As such, a Zach Gage game is like a book and a book club, and Gage is like a creator and a critic.
Gage wears plenty of other hats, too. For his latest game, Typeshift, a collaboration with Merriam-Webster Dictionary, Gage has created a contraption that would make a shrewd CMO envious. A puzzle game, Typeshift teaches players by asking them to find words. Words are aligned by shifting letter tiles up and down, each push accompanied by the perfect ASMR click. It’s addictive and edifying, like popping a special kind of bubble wrap that expands your vocabulary. But here’s the business hook: once a board’s completed, a menu provides links to the definition of each discovered word on Merriam-Webster’s site. Merriam-Webster gets a web visit every time a player experiences the slightest hint of curiosity. In two days, I’ve probably visited the site for 50+ definitions. The dictionary gets traffic. The player gets smarter. And Gage, he expands the reach of his art.
Available on iOS.
I’ve played a little under 50 hours of Persona 5, easily more time than I’ve spent with any single game in the past year. I’m only halfway through. When I tell this to friends unfamiliar with games, they look almost nauseous. Don’t you know what can be accomplished in 50 hours? The go to is, almost without fail, Moby Dick. You could read Moby Dick! Twice!
Games can benefit from length for a number of reasons. Minecraft and other “make your own fun” laboratories become richer as their tools become more familiar. Well-designed e-sports — just like traditional sports — demand practice for the pursuit of perfection. Casual clickers like The Simpsons mobile game and the obscure Candy Box play themselves when the player steps away, creating a parallel and exaggerated sense of progress running alongside daily life.
Role-playing games can, and often do, extend beyond the 100-hour mark, but the reward isn’t skill or education; I’d argue it’s leisure. The genre can be loud and big — there are battles and quests to save the world and maybe even kill God in the process — but the pleasure is most often in the details, particularly those that draw similarities to our own world. To enjoy them, it demands you relax.
I like Persona 5 because, frankly, I lack the imagination for fantasy and sci-fi, practically the default settings of RPGs. I’d much rather be dropped into a place I am familiar with, but, because I am a grown-up with obligations and finite money and time, I can’t call home. Persona 5 is set across Tokyo, and while it’s hardly the story of a normal life — you fight mental demons through a portal revealed by a mysterious smartphone app — it does a tremendous job of simply letting the player be a teenager in Japan. I find myself rushing through the game-y aspects, so I can spend more time studying after class, strolling in the park, making friends, seeing and hearing how a different culture passes a year. Or should I say how a band of artists portray the world around them.
With most games, I eventually find myself becoming self-conscious about the time with them. There are other things I could do; I could finally read Moby Dick. But I haven’t had that with Persona. It’s like a vacation, and I leisurely sink into it, obeying the prompt that appears on every load screen: “Take your time.”
Available on PS3 and PS4.
To describe psychedelic experiences, researchers rely on the phrase “set and setting.” Set refers to the mindset and preparation of the subject, setting, to their literal and social environment at the time of the test. It’s widely believed that both set and setting are crucial to laying the framework for a positive and meaningful psychedelic experience. The psychedelic drug is, in the words of Timothy Leary, simply the “key,” unlocking the consciousness to freely analyze the mind and the world around it.
Maybe I’m taking you on a long walk for a small glass of criticism, but I think set and setting are applicable to art, which, depending on where you are mentally and physically, can unlock different experiences and emotions. I know, Mario Kart isn’t magic mushrooms or the Mona Lisa, but it is probably the closest thing that video games have to a universally beloved experience.
Mario Kart 8 was a lovingly crafted game hamstrung by a crummy console that lived in your living room. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is that exact same game (with a handful of tweaks), but now it can be easily enjoyed wherever you’ll enjoy it most. The game is fine at home alone. But when stuck at an airport with a five-hour delay, passing the time on Rainbow Road is almost transcendent.
Available on Nintendo Switch.
A confession: I don’t entirely get French New Wave cinema, even though I faked it through college. Nonetheless, I appreciate one corner of the movement: a handful of critics became filmmakers to criticize capital-F Film with their own movies. They did so with respect for the form, but also with eagerness to deconstruct it, to save it from its worst tendencies. And they often did so with a sense of humor that saved the experiment from becoming utterly insufferable. I think about these directors when I play Nier: Automata.
At first, Automata seems straightforward enough. You are a cyborg sent to fight robots on Earth in a proxy war between aliens beneath the surface and humans who now live on the Moon. Okay, that isn’t so simple, but it’s easy enough to synopsize, unlike the story that cuts a path through the greatest hits of existential philosophy. When you aren’t stabbing and shooting robots, you’re chatting with them about pain and art and vice and sex and being, well, human.
Automata is, in no small part, the product of creator Yoko Taro’s mind. I don’t know Taro’s full resume, but I don’t believe he ever served as a professional critic. That’s fine. His game has more to say about games — how they imitate one another, how they evolve, how they treat life, how they continue to exist even after they’re finished — than most books on the medium.
Automata is a sequel to Nier and a spinoff of Drakengard, two games you’d be forgiven for having never heard of. Like its predecessor, it’s weird and a little messy and surprisingly emphatic, a rarity, as Aevee Bee noted at The Guardian, for a video game in which you kill hundreds of characters. Unlike its predecessor, it’s something of a hit, selling over a million copies worldwide. You don’t need to play either game to enjoy Automata, but to really see it for what it is, you’ll want to play Automata itself many times through. The repetition is criticism of games at large, for sure, but Taro also uses each new playthrough to look further and further inward. Automata is the rarest of games: sharp criticism of itself.
Available on PS4 and PC.
HomePod is Apple’s newest hardware, and the company’s big play to put Apple Music and Siri in the center of your living room. It’s an interesting product, one that seems to be making a simultaneous move against Sonos’ industry-leading, multi-room audio speakers and smart assistant hubs like the Amazon Echo and Google Home.
The problem? HomePod is expensive. At $350, a single HomePod speaker costs more than many of its competitors in either product category. Smart assistant speakers aren’t even close — an Amazon Echo costs $180; the Echo Show costs $230; Google Home sells for $129; and perhaps most significantly, an Echo Dot is just $50. And Sonos’ speakers — which aren’t exactly known across the industry for being the cheapest line of products — also undercut the HomePod when it comes to price: a Sonos Play:1 costs $199, while a Play:3 runs for $299. Only the Play:5, which is hardly comparable from a speaker standpoint to Apple’s offering, is more expensive than HomePod.
Related
Apple’s argument is that the HomePod is worth the cost because it combines smart features and great sound, which is actually comparable to the current market. You can pick up a Sonos Play:3 and an Amazon Echo Dot for the same $349 price. But the HomePod is also limited in ways that Amazon and Sonos aren’t.
Right now, the only music service that seems to be supported on HomePod directly is (unsurprisingly) Apple Music. And while it seems likely that you’ll be able to play music from another service to HomePod through the newly announced AirPlay 2 system, that’s still the weakest music support of any of the HomePod’s competitors, all of which support direct playback of services like Spotify, Pandora, and, in Sonos’ case, just about every music service ever made. It’s the same story on the other side of the divide, too — while HomePod supports Siri and HomeKit, it’s still as locked down as ever. Its abilities as a home assistant are limited to whatever Apple allows you to use it for, instead of the open platform that Amazon has made with Alexa Skills, or that Google would like to foster by allowing developers to build out things for Home.
Meet Apple's adorable new HomePod speaker.
That said, the HomePod is still months from release, and there’s undoubtably a lot we don’t know. Early reports of the sound quality are good, and there’s always the option for Apple to add support for other music services or Siri integrations down the line.
Given that the HomePod isn’t out until December, you’ve got some time to make a decision, and a list of specifications is still no match for actually comparing how each speaker sounds in person with the music you like. But if you’d like to start seeing how things look now, here’s how the various smart speakers and home assistants stack up against each other on paper:
Correction: Updated chart to include TuneIn and iHeartRadio for Google Home, as well as note the touch panel on the Home for controls. Also included Sonos processor information.
Apple is bringing even more fitness features to the Apple Watch in watchOS 4. The biggest highlight is support for a new technology platform called GymKit, which will let users wireless sync fitness data between cardio machines at a gym and their Apple Watches.
As Apple noted in the keynote yesterday, when you use gym equipment with a Watch, there’s data on a treadmill that the Watch can only estimate, like distance traveled. Conversely, data on the Watch, like calories burned, is information the treadmill lacks or imprecisely measures. GymKit solves that problem by pairing an Apple Watch to whatever cardio gear you’re using by tapping on an NFC pad, allowing the two devices to sync their respective datasets to ensure that your workout results are accurate on both ends.
GymKit will be supported on workout equipment from partners like Life Fitness, Cybex, TechnoGym, Matrix, Star Trac, StairMaster, and Schwinn. The first models set to roll out this fall. For now, GymKit will sync data from cardio equipment — specifically treadmills, ellipticals, indoor bikes, and stair steppers — but there’s no reason why Apple couldn’t extend this to other types of workout equipment in the future.
That said, while GymKit-enabled gear will be out this fall, it’s probably too much to hope for any of them to show up in my local gym anytime soon.
Uber is helping get the vote out in the UK, teaming up with disability charity Whizz-Kidz to offer free rides to polling stations for wheelchair users. The trips will be provided via the company’s UberAccess option, which offers fully wheelchair accessible vehicles in three UK cities: London, Manchester, and Birmingham. Wheelchair users wanting to take up Uber on the offer will get two free voucher codes worth up to £10 ($13) each, sent either via the company’s app (if they’ve used UberAccess before) or direct from Whizz-Kidz.
In a press statement, Ruth Owen, chief executive of Whizz-Kidz, said: “Exercising your right to vote is such a fundamental milestone in transitioning from childhood to adulthood [...] We hope Uber’s generous move will inspire many young wheelchair users to get out and vote on Thursday.”
The rides will be available between 7AM and 10PM, and Uber is paying for the trips. The company will also be prompting all its UK users to make their voices heard in the general election, with an in-app message on Thursday reminding users to vote, and giving them help to find their local polling station.
The iPad has never been a full-fledged computer. At its launch back in 2010, it was mocked for having a large screen without a typical large-screen operating system like macOS or Windows, and it was dismissed as just a bigger iPhone. But, as it turned out, people found a whole bunch of really cool and enjoyable uses for that enlarged iPhone, and even as iPad sales have slowed over recent years, Apple’s tablet has proven enduringly popular among those who’ve acquired one. At WWDC 2017, Apple underlined its commitment to pushing the iPad as its next computing platform, and for the first time ever, it even has me interested.
In all the time it’s been around, I haven’t been able to answer the question of who the iPad is for. It’s often been the wrong question, mind you, as the iPad shows its strengths best when it’s serving narrowly defined purposes and applications: a sketching pad for some, a comic book reader for others, and a great way to show off pictures for all. But with the changes to how the iPad works in iOS 11, Apple is ready to answer the question of who the iPad is for in a bold and emphatic way: it’s for everyone. What this latest generation of Apple’s tablet represents is a maturation into a truly versatile and powerful computer, thanks to Apple’s usual mix of tightly integrated hardware and software upgrades.
iOS 11 is a software update dedicated almost entirely to the iPad Pro. It brings better multitasking, drag-and-drop functionality, access to the device's file system via a new Files app, and even an auto-hiding app dock that works strikingly like the one in macOS. The app switcher from Apple’s desktop operating system has now made its way to the iPad. For so many years it was macOS that was leaching iOS features up into the desktop environment, but with iOS 11 Apple is taking on the harder task of bringing macOS versatility to its mobile devices.
On iPads with 4GB RAM, you can now run three apps at the same time. Two side by side, one floating pic.twitter.com/QQgbQ7xRVo
By itself, iOS 11 looks like a laudable advance, but it’d be an incomplete solution for people who’ve traditionally favored laptops, the incumbent one-size-fits-all computer of choice. People like me. But what’s happened over the past year is a vast, if subtle, upgrade in the hardware capabilities of Apple’s portable devices. The iPhone 7 brought with it the new A10 Fusion chip, which has ungodly amounts of performance and can legitimately rival Intel’s most power-efficient offerings for ultraportables and 2-in-1s. Now in its A10X Fusion form for the iPad Pro, this processor is the key that unlocks a whole new tier of capabilities and functionality from Apple’s tablet.
During the WWDC keynote, I saw the new iPad Pro used with the Affinity Photo app to do some complicated image blending and reprocessing work, and every task was accomplished almost instantaneously. Apple has also upped the refresh rate of its new iPad Pro to 120Hz, which will mean even smoother animations while helping lower latency for stylus input down to a supposedly industry-leading 20ms. And yes, as usual for a new iPad release, the new 10.5-inch Pro model has the best and loveliest display Apple’s ever made.
With performance that’s edging into laptop territory, and now software that’s bridging the gap to a desktop operating environment, the iPad Pro’s established advantages over something like a MacBook or MacBook Pro grow in significance. After the MacBook Pro was downgraded in terms of ports and other pro features last year, I’m now much more open to tolerating the iPad’s limitations in order to gain the benefit of its strengths. That would be things like better battery life, easier portability, and a substantially lower price, starting at $649 for the latest iPad Pro.
One of these new 10.5-inch iPad Pros, with its reduced bezels and still vanishingly thin profile, is much easier to tote around than any MacBook Pro. Reducing the footprint of a device is much more impactful nowadays than shaving a few extra millimeters off its thickness, and I can envision a daily carry scenario for myself where an iPad Pro shrinks the size of bag I need to use. There are some really lovely and small camera bags — like the Domke F-803, for instance — that work really well with just an iPad slotted in, but struggle to fit a proper laptop. Well, now maybe I no longer need a proper laptop if I have something that’s close enough.
Judging by Craig Federighi's excitement, iOS 11 on the iPad is by far the biggest news today. And I agree.
Getting to grips with the iOS 11-powered iPad Pro at Apple’s event yesterday, my colleague Jake Kastrenakes noted that he never felt like he could move quickly and efficiently around iOS before, but the new version is the first one that feels like it could change that. I’m on exactly the same page: iOS has always felt like a more leisurely way to use a mobile device, not quite the lean and mean productivity workhouse that I could sculpt together in macOS. But with more robust split-screen multitasking and the ability to float additional apps and picture-in-picture video on the screen, I foresee finally being able to get Real Work done on an iPad.
Being able to manipulate files in the self-explanatory Files browser is basically the tipping point: I get the extra degree of control I’ve always felt has been missing on iOS, and now I’m wondering exactly what I’d be losing if I switched to doing my research and writing on one of Apple’s tablets. Sure, I’d need to hunt down a good third-party keyboard, but there’s never a shortage of good accessories for Apple devices. By making the changes it’s made in iOS 11, Apple looks to have successfully attracted professional holdouts like me while still retaining its touch-friendly and accessible interface for the majority of others.
The computer I use most often at home is a Chromebook Pixel 2. Like the iPad, the Chromebook started off very spartan but evolved over time and gained just enough of the conventional OS capabilities to feel like a legitimate machine for getting work done. It's still fundamentally built around the Chrome browser, but it also has a file system, a basic photo editor, and a few other niceties that leave me missing only Adobe's powerful editing suite. This article is written on that very Chromebook, and the next meal I have will be paid for with the money I make from that writing, so I'm quite confident in saying that a Chromebook can be a professional computer. So why not an iPad?
Some might point to the iPad’s lack of mouse input or external monitor support, but consider that even a fully specced-out $2,000 ThinkPad wouldn’t have those when you’re cradling it in your lap on a packed train en route to work. And unlike a Windows laptop, Apple’s iOS is designed with touch input from the start, so an iPad has the advantage of being tailored to situations of limited space. The inconvenience of working on the move is the iPad’s great equalizer. That’s also why I’m not too worried about the limited number of apps I can run side by side or the relative paucity of memory on iPads. Those limitations, which Apple is gradually loosening anyway, are less oppressive when working in a truly mobile environment.
Productivity these days comes in many forms and sizes, and I’m starting to buy in to Apple’s premise that the next frontier for it will be the iPad, Pro or otherwise, rather than the MacBook, the latter of which got only the most token of spec upgrades at WWDC 2017. Another thing I notice from Apple’s promotional materials is that in almost all photos of the new iPad, there’s the Pencil stylus somewhere in the vicinity, hovering with productive intent. Of course, that’s not solely Apple’s idea, as Microsoft has pushed the idea of pen computing and 2-in-1 devices through its Surface Pro line for years, and Google has recently also joined in with the S Pen-equipped 2017 Samsung Chromebooks and its initiative to bring Android apps to Chrome OS.
We always knew the future of computing was mobile — because the present already is — but this year we’re seeing what that means beyond just the ever-present smartphone. The traditional laptop clamshell is being broken up, styluses are all the rage, and the lines between mobile and desktop software are being eroded into nothing.
This isn’t the final step to the iPad becoming a computer, but it’s certainly a major one.

Lyft announced a new partnership today with Boston-based self-driving car startup NuTonomy to eventually put “thousands” of on-demand, autonomous vehicles on the road. In the meantime, the two companies said they intend to launch a limited pilot in Boston within the next few months, in which Lyft users will be able to hail one of NuTonomy’s driverless vehicles by using Lyft’s app.
It’s not Lyft’s first dalliance with self-driving partnerships. Last month, the company announced its plan to work with Alphabet’s Waymo on autonomous technology. And previously, GM invested $500 million in Lyft with the goal of eventually deploying its driverless Chevy Bolts on the ride-hail network. John Zimmer and Logan Green, Lyft’s co-founders, are on record saying that they expect the majority of the company’s rides to take place in autonomous vehicles by 2021.
So while Lyft has declined to wade into the thorny mess of developing its own autonomous technology — probably for the best, considering the quagmire its main rival Uber currently finds itself in — it has racked up a host of eager partners willing to feature their own self-driving cars on Lyft’s app.
But if these new partnerships conflict in any way, Lyft wouldn’t say: in a call with reporters on Monday, Green would only say that each collaboration is unique to itself. “What we’re doing with other partners is very different,” Green said. Pressed on how exactly they are different, he replied, “I can’t comment on those other programs.”
A Lyft spokesperson later added, “We are not disclosing the details of the work we are doing with each partner. Overall, we're partnering with leaders in this space who share a vision of solving transportation issues and positively impact the future of our cities.”
What we do know, though, is that even though the Lyft / Waymo partnership was announced back in May, NuTonomy’s self-driving cars will be the first ones available on Lyft’s platform. NuTonomy, which spun out of MIT in 2013 and has been operating autonomous taxis in Singapore since 2016, recently received permission to test its vehicles in Boston. Its partnership with Lyft will kick off in the city in the coming months, giving Lyft users the chance to hail a ride in one of NuTonomy’s self-driving Renault Zoe electric cars through the ride-hail app.
Green said the first stage of his company’s partnership with NuTonomy will be focused on “R&D around understanding the passenger experience.” That will likely include bringing some elements of the Lyft app into the car itself. “There will be a version of the Lyft application running on a console inside the car,” Green confirmed.
Uber has placed tablets in the backseats of its self-driving cars so passengers can see how the vehicle’s sensors perceive the surrounding environment — as well as snap a selfie. Its unclear whether Lyft’s in-car app experience will attempt something similar, but NuTonomy CEO Karl Iagnemma said their plan is to focus on “optimizing” the passenger experience by “sharing knowledge” about how the vehicle is driving itself.
“We don’t really know in detail how riders are going to engage with autonomous vehicles because we just haven’t frankly had that much real-world experience,” Iagnemma added.
It wasn’t too long ago that Lyft’s co-founders were dismissing Uber’s public trials as a “marketing stunt.” But a lot has changed in the past year. Now tech companies see value in normalizing a futuristic and potentially scary-sounding technology in order to get Average Joes used the idea of cars driving themselves. The ultimate goal is safety, but polls show that drivers are wary, if not downright reluctant, about turning over their steering wheels to a computer.
Both Uber and Waymo are offering rides to the public in Arizona. Uber is also operating a small fleet of self-driving cars in Pittsburgh (though the company’s relationship with the city government appears to be souring). And almost three dozen companies have signed up to test their autonomous cars in California, although none have gone so far as to invite average people rides. (Uber tried, and was quickly rebuked for not following the state’s protocols.)
NuTonomy has a Memorandum of Understanding with the city of Boston and the Massachusetts Department of Transportation to operate its self-driving cars within a specific area — but that MOU doesn’t include offering rides to members of the public. Lyft says it won’t launch its own pilot until it has also received the green light from city and state regulators. The company is being careful to avoid the pitfalls that Uber ran into in California, when it was forced to end its self-driving pilot in San Francisco a week after launching because of a flap with the DMV.
“Current regulations in the testing zone don't allow for passengers to ride in autonomous vehicles and we will not launch without explicit regulatory approval,” a spokesperson said. Lyft expects to receive that approval “in a couple months,” she added.


Apple’s biggest announcement at WWDC this week was the HomePod — a Siri-enabled speaker that will compete against Amazon’s Echo. The conference also brought updates to Apple’s voice assistant that should make it easier and more powerful to use, especially in an increasingly tight market that has assistants from Amazon, Google, and other tech giants battling for space.
But no amount of natural language processing or extra functionality can fix my core problem with Siri, and voice assistants in general: I just don’t want to talk to them.
Some of my colleagues love them, but for me, voice assistants just feel intrusive, unwelcome, and downright awkward. I can count on one hand the number of times I’ve deliberately used Siri in five years of owning an iPhone, and each of those were me proving that it worked to incredulous elderly friends or children. The only time I activate Siri now is accidentally when I’m pulling my phone out of my pocket, and my natural reaction is to go silent — even if I’m in the middle of a sentence — just in case it steps in with a response.
Worse still is when it does catch a snippet of conversation and starts blaring over the top of it. My phone defaults to British English, and the UK version of Siri speaks with a posh, slightly stern male voice that sounds like a scary teacher. “I’m sorry, I don’t understand,” he’ll say, somehow making it feel like it’s my fault. It’s like I haven’t done my homework, but instead of homework, it’s adequately explaining search terms to a robot that lives in my pocket.
I like to explain this fear away, and imagine it’s inspired by privacy concerns. I’ve got a point, I think, in an internet age where your web history can provide an eerily accurate insight into your personality and predilections. With a sweltering summer coming up, I idly searched Amazon for a dehumidifier the other day, just to get an idea of prices. Now every single website I visit serves a secondary purpose of trying to sell me a dehumidifier, their sidebars filling up with rank after rank of squat, white, moisture-sucking machines.
In this world, I don’t want Siri to be able to put together a picture of me (or more likely, clarify the picture Apple already has) through search topics, activation times, and even my accent.
But I’ve realized that my fear of voice assistants really comes from a more subconscious place. I’m British, so talking to strangers is awkward already. Talking to weird robot strangers who hide in my house and only come out to chastise me when I talk too loudly is just too much, especially when I’m expected to do so in public, where people could potentially hear me.
That panic is compounded further by the country I now live in. Public spaces in Japan are typically quiet, and they are kept that way through social pressure. I can’t even imagine an existence in which I’d bust out my iPhone on a train in busy Kyoto and use my real-life human voice to ask it for restaurant recommendations. I don’t think it’s a local thing, either — there’s a performative aspect to using voice assistants in public that I just can’t get on board with, unless I really wanted a gang of randoms to know exactly where I would be having dinner that night. It’s something that I think game designer Tak Fujii understands:
Lots of gadget makes you to SPEAK. Hey Siri, Alexa, OK Google, Xbox and so on. Does this feel right to you? I DON'T because I AM SHY BOY.
That’s not to say Siri (and Alexa and Bixby and all their friends) aren’t powerful tools, but their effect can be diminished when used outside of their home countries. My fellow Japan-dweller Sam Byford wrote about the difficulty of using Amazon’s Echo across languages previously, but there are even problems understanding adaptations of the same language.
These things are typically built for English-speaking American audiences, but I speak my English with an English accent. It’s still English, sure, but I speak fast and low, mumbling through words that have mild differences in pronunciation to my transatlantic friends. Aluminium, for example, or router, or Featherstonehaugh.
I sometimes find human American friends unable to understand me — I see them with their heads cocked to the side, knowing that we’re meant to share a common tongue. Robots have even less of a chance, especially when they can’t take facial or contextual clues. They also can’t do what I think my friends often do: simply nod, smile, and ask someone else later what the hell I was chatting about.
Still, I can usually make the machine catch my drift on the second or third attempt, but for those with other accents, it’s sometimes tougher. I bought a PlayStation Camera along with my PS4, (foolishly) expecting it to be an integral part of the next-generation console gaming experience. When I first used it, I called my wife over to watch as I started a game using nothing but the power of my voice. “Cool!” she said. “I’ll try.”
For the record, my wife is from the northeast of England, and she has an accent described in the country as “Geordie.” It’s softened over the years, but she still pronounces words like “book” with an array of extra “oo” vowel sounds, and the word “PlayStation” as “PleeSteetian.” It was enough to confuse my poor console, which tried gamely to work out what she was asking, but couldn’t quite manage it. Of course, the moment we adopted our best California surfer dude accents, it worked on the first try, but the damage had been done. I packed the camera away in its cardboard box and haven’t broken it out since.
I’ve seen excitingly accented friends have similar trouble with Siri — their scouse, manc, or brummie brogue lost on the posho that lives inside my phone. By the time they’ve repeated their speech for the third time, it’s usually easier to just grab the phone and type in the thing they’re looking for.
And really, is that so bad? Voice controls work fantastically as assistive technology, but every company seems intent on invading public spaces, your home, even your pocket with their own special talking robot. The world is noisy enough already — can’t we just have a little quiet time?
Kaspersky Lab has filed antitrust complaints in Europe against Microsoft. Kaspersky first filed a complaint against Microsoft with Russia’s Federal Antimonopoly Service (FAS), claiming that Microsoft is using its dominant position with Windows to push its own anti-virus software over competitor products with Windows 10. While Microsoft has made some product changes since the initial complaint, Kaspersky isn’t happy these are enough and has filed complaints with the European Commission and the German Federal Cartel Office recently.
“Microsoft uses its dominant position in the computer operating system (OS) market to fiercely promote its own – inferior – security software (Windows Defender) at the expense of users’ previously self-chosen security solution,” says Eugene Kaspersky, the Russian co-founder of the anti-virus company. Kaspersky claims Microsoft has been removing its software when users upgrade to Windows 10, and enabling its own Windows Defender solution. Kaspersky also claims Microsoft does not provide enough time to fully test its latest Windows 10 upgrades to ensure existing software is compatible.
Microsoft has been gradually improving its Windows Defender anti-virus software in recent years, and with Windows 10 the company has built it into the operating system and enabled it by default. While Microsoft argues this is to protect Windows users, anti-virus makers like Kaspersky argue it's anti-competitive. “We want Microsoft to stop misleading and misinforming our – and not only our – users,” says Kaspersky in a blog post. “We want to see all security solutions being able to work on the Windows platform on a level playing field.”
Microsoft believes Windows 10 complies with competition laws. “Microsoft’s primary objective is to keep customers protected," says a Microsoft spokesperson in a statement to The Verge. "We are confident that the security features of Windows 10 comply with competition laws. And we will answer any questions regulators may have.”
Microsoft also says it has offered to meet with Kaspersky officials to work through their complaints. "We’re always interested in feedback from other companies and we engage deeply with antimalware vendors and have taken a number of steps to address their feedback," says a Microsoft spokesperson. "We reached out directly to Kaspersky a number of months ago offering to meet directly at an executive level to better understand their concerns, but that meeting has not yet taken place.”
Update, 12:30PM ET: Article updated with an additional Microsoft statement.
It wasn’t announced onstage at WWDC yesterday, but Apple’s new Pencil Case might be the most quintessential Apple product to date. It’s a leather sheath for the company’s iPad stylus that comes in four colors. It costs $29, and is described by the company using the usual string of flattering adjectives. “Beautifully crafted,” says the product page, channeling Jony Ive. “A graceful statement [...] cleanly and precisely designed.”
It is a pencil case that holds a single, $99 pencil. Very, very Apple.
In the spectrum of odd products the company has made, the Pencil case probably falls somewhere between the iPod Sock and last year’s $300 coffee-table book. It embodies some of Apple’s better traits, like attention to detail and high-quality craftsmanship, but the overall impression is one of fastidiousness and self-indulgence. It’ll protect your iPad Pencil from scrapes and scratches, I guess, but iPad owners are probably more concerned about losing the damn thing in the first place.
Which is why the Pencil case looks even more unnecessary when compared to its companion piece — a leather iPad Pro sleeve and built-in Pencil holder. This seems like a genuinely useful product, because a) people need cases for their tablets, and b) it keeps the iPad and Pencil together. You get the same pleasing colors and leather craftwork, but also some actual functionality. Although at $129, it seems you can’t dodge the Apple price tag.


Probably the biggest critique of OnePlus, the small Chinese company that has garnered global hype and acclaim with its Android phones, is that its customer service is not good enough. OnePlus phones are often great, but the experience of owning one and dealing with a fault or needing a repair has not been so hot for everyone. So now, in an unconventional move, OnePlus is building hype for its next phone by showing how much its customer service department has grown and how important it considers aftersales care to be.
The company has clearly expanded the number of staff it has in its customer service department, and it now offers some degree of multilingual support for local markets. More importantly, though, OnePlus now has repair centers in the United States and Europe, which greatly accelerates the turnaround time on handling any issues with devices.
Honestly, customer care is the unglamorous stuff that doesn’t spark much hype or attention before the launch of a new device, but it certainly matters over the full course of owning one. It’s good to see OnePlus addressing what has historically been a weakness. And hey, if you want something to salivate about with regard to the OnePlus 5, the company’s newly announced partnership with camera experts DxO bodes well for improving one of the critical components of any modern smartphone.
Alongside the announcement of a bunch of gaming computers today, HP is introducing a series of accessories so that it can try to sell gamers the entire package. That includes two displays, a gaming mouse, a mechanical keyboard, and an external GPU enclosure.
The external GPU may be the standout of the bunch (at the very least, it takes up the most room). It’s called the HP Accelerator, and it’s mostly just a big box with a power supply and space to hold a single graphics card and a hard drive. It also includes several additional ports, including four USB 3.0 and a single USB-C, and connects to a laptop over Thunderbolt 3.
Products like the Accelerator are meant to be plugged into a laptop to transform it into a much more powerful machine. It lets you leave some of the power of a desktop at home, while still running everything off of a relatively standard laptop.
HP’s solution is a pretty nice alternative to something like Razer’s Core. It’s not clear yet if it’ll support the same breadth of graphics card options, but HP’s Accelerator stands out for including a slot for an external hard drive, too. It’s also much cheaper, at $299.99
Unfortunately, HP isn’t going to guarantee the Accelerator will work with anything but its own laptops. Mike Nash, who heads HP’s consumer PC division, says that there's been too much variation in how Thunderbolt is used for HP to make any promises about compatibility with other companies' PCs.
Still, it’s a nice option for gamers using HP’s equipment. And it could be useful for anyone who wants to do video editing at their desk, too. The Accelerator goes on sale in August.
HP is also launching two displays for gaming. A 25-inch display with AMD’s FreeSync, 1080p resolution, and two USB 3.0 ports will be available for $279.99. Then stepping way up, there’ll be the 27-inch model with a QHD display, those same two USB ports, and Nvidia’s G-Sync. HP says response time can get as low as 1 millisecond on both. The 27-inch goes on sale this week, and the 25-inch comes out at the end of the month.
And finally, HP is also launching a gaming mouse and a mechanical keyboard. The keyboard has Cherry MX Red switches and sells for $129.99. And HP now has its own mouse, instead of a co-branded SteelSeries model like it launched last year. The new model has adjustable weights and will sell for $59.99. Both accessories launch today.
Alongside the announcement of a bunch of gaming computers today, HP is introducing a series of accessories so that it can try to sell gamers the entire package. That includes two displays, a gaming mouse, a mechanical keyboard, and an external GPU enclosure.
The external GPU may be the standout of the bunch (at the very least, it takes up the most room). It’s called the HP Accelerator, and it’s mostly just a big box with a power supply and space to hold a single graphics card and a hard drive. It also includes several additional ports, including four USB 3.0 and a single USB-C, and connects to a laptop over Thunderbolt 3.
Products like the Accelerator are meant to be plugged into a laptop to transform it into a much more powerful machine. It lets you leave some of the power of a desktop at home, while still running everything off of a relatively standard laptop.
HP’s solution is a pretty nice alternative to something like Razer’s Core. It’s not clear yet if it’ll support the same breadth of graphics card options, but HP’s Accelerator stands out for including a slot for an external hard drive, too. It’s also much cheaper, at $299.99
Unfortunately, HP isn’t going to guarantee the Accelerator will work with anything but its own laptops. Mike Nash, who heads HP’s consumer PC division, says that there's been too much variation in how Thunderbolt is used for HP to make any promises about compatibility with other companies' PCs.
Still, it’s a nice option for gamers using HP’s equipment. And it could be useful for anyone who wants to do video editing at their desk, too. The Accelerator goes on sale in August.
HP is also launching two displays for gaming. A 25-inch display with AMD’s FreeSync, 1080p resolution, and two USB 3.0 ports will be available for $279.99. Then stepping way up, there’ll be the 27-inch model with a QHD display, those same two USB ports, and Nvidia’s G-Sync. HP says response time can get as low as 1 millisecond on both. The 27-inch goes on sale this week, and the 25-inch comes out at the end of the month.
And finally, HP is also launching a gaming mouse and a mechanical keyboard. The keyboard has Cherry MX Red switches and sells for $129.99. And HP now has its own mouse, instead of a co-branded SteelSeries model like it launched last year. The new model has adjustable weights and will sell for $59.99. Both accessories launch today.
HP got back into gaming last year with the debut of its Omen line of gaming PCs, and today the product line is getting a series of updates. The most notable is a backpack PC for VR gaming, but HP is also releasing three much more traditional PCs with brand-new designs: a desktop, a 15-inch laptop, and a 17-inch laptop.
The Omen Desktop is meant to be a really scalable option for gamers who don't feel like building their own machine. It starts at $899 and includes a GeForce GTX 1050 graphics card and a choice between Intel’s Core i and AMD’s Ryzen processors. The desktop can be configured up to nearly $3,000, at which point it’ll have dual GTX 1080 Tis or dual Radeon RX 580s.
There are a few nice tweaks to this year's design of the Omen Desktop. It has two cold swappable hard drive slots on the front; its side can just pop open for tinkering; and it can now be configured with dual graphics cards, unlike last year’s model. The new desktop goes on sale June 6th.
HP is also releasing new designs for its 15- and 17-inch Omen Laptops. They look even more gamer-y than they did last year, with what HP describes as “fighter jet and spacecraft-inspired designs.” They will not make you many friends at coffee shops.
The 15-inch model can be configured with up to either a Radeon RX 550 or a GeForce GTX 1060; the 17-inch model maxes out at a GTX 1070 or RX 580. Both laptops have Kaby Lake chips, a red keyboard backlight, and several display options: 4K, 1080p with G-Sync, or 1080p with FreeSync. The laptops’ hard drives and RAM are also user upgradable.
Both laptops go on sale June 28th. The 15-inch starts at $999.99, and the 17-inch starts at $1,099.99. At those starting prices, they’re avoiding some of the more formidable gaming laptops — but that also means that, like the Omen Desktop, they seem to be designed more to scale up to many different price and power points, rather than optimize for one sweet spot.
Correction June 6th, 11:27AM ET: The Omen Desktop’s hard drives are cold swappable, not hot swappable, as initially stated.
HP has reworked the backpack PC concept it unveiled last year and is now ready to put the computer on sale.
The Omen X Compact Desktop is a surprisingly slim and light gaming PC that's meant to be strapped to your back and used for VR. The idea sounds strange, but several companies have been trying it out as a way to let gamers to walk around in virtual reality without tripping over the many cables that need to stretch from a VR headset back to a PC.
HP has made some design changes since it first unveiled the backpack PC last year, opting for a (relatively) more toned-down style.
But the single biggest change is the introduction of a dock for the computer, which transforms it into a standard desktop PC. It's a smart addition that makes the Omen X Compact seem less frivolous and solves the concept model’s biggest problem: the PC is no longer just for VR — you can now set it down and use it for desktop gaming (or general computing), too. You could do that without the dock, but the dock allows for a monitor, keyboard, and other accessories to stay plugged in, making it a lot more convenient.
I got to wear the Omen X Compact for a few minutes during a briefing last month, and I was surprised at just how small and light the PC was. It’s very possible the weight would get more noticeable over the course of a prolonged gaming session, but in the few minutes I was standing around in it, I hardly noticed I had it on.
HP is outfitting the Omen X Compact with Kaby Lake i7 processor options and a GeForce GTX 1080. It’s also pretending like you might buy this PC for reasons other than VR — in case you really want a PC that mounts on a detachable pedestal / dock, I guess — and so the computer itself is being sold separately from the backpack parts needed to take it portable. The computer alone will start at $2,499, and the backpack accessory starts at $599.99. Both will be available in July.
The Omen X Compact won’t be the only backpack PC available when it launches. But HP’s addition of the dock goes a long ways toward making it easier to buy into this form factor, which could be enough to give it the edge for any gamers interested in this experimental new shape of PC.
Google is launching an educational program designed to teach kids about phishing, internet harassment, passwords, and other internet safety issues. Called “Be Internet Awesome,” it includes a classroom curriculum and a video game called Interland. It was developed with help from teachers, YouTube videographers, and internet safety and literacy organizations, and resources are available online for free.
Be Internet Awesome tackles topics that are relevant to all ages, though it’s seemingly aimed at younger children. It includes sections on how to limit sharing personal information with people online, avoid falling for scams or phishing attacks, creating strong passwords, and avoiding negative behavior online. (It includes a “Be Internet Awesome Pledge” that students can sign.) Google says the program is compliant with International Society for Technology in Education standards, awarded to programs that promote a range of tech-savvy skills.
In this case, that happens through a range of quizzes, role-playing activities, and other abstract exercises. For the “Share with Care” module, students look at a made-up social media profile and cross out information that a parent, employer, or future self might look poorly upon. In “Don’t Fall for Fake,” they decide whether a series of webpages and emails look real or fake. And “It’s Cool to be Kind” urges kids to avoid responding or reacting to hurtful messages, as well as block and report bullies.
Interland, the accompanying video game, seems less like a training tool and more like a sweetener that could get students interested in the material. “Mindful Mountain,” for example, turns the process of sharing specific posts with the right people into a spatial puzzle. (It also works as a grim commentary on how opaque social network privacy settings can be, although that’s never mentioned.) Players promote positivity in a platforming game by tossing out friendly emoticons and hitting the “block” button to trap trolls. The password security game is a Temple Run-style endless runner about collecting letters and symbols.
This is only the latest in Google’s string of educational programs, which range from promoting Chromebooks in the classroom to offering virtual reality field trips through Google Cardboard. (Interland also uses a low-poly aesthetic that will be familiar to Daydream VR users.)
As someone who’s not a trained educator, I can’t pass judgment on this curriculum. Everybody could stand to be a little more cautious about phishing, but anti-bullying programs, of which “Cool to be Kind” is a subset, vary in effectiveness. Even if this is effective for teaching students the basic principles of internet use, we don’t know how well it will translate into real-world social media use. But at the very least, it’s a non-alarmist take on internet safety — even if I might rather teach my kid about hacking with the Mr. Robot game.
Apple CEO Tim Cook says the company has been cooperating with the UK government following a string of terrorist attacks in the country. The news that Apple is assisting UK law enforcement is not surprising, but it comes at a pivotal time. Prime Minister Theresa May has been demanding new digital regulations to combat extremism following a terrorist attack in London last weekend, and Apple has previously been criticized by the UK government for its support of end-to-end encryption.
Speaking to Bloomberg, Cook said: “We’ve been cooperating with the UK government not only in law enforcement matters, but on some of the attacks — and I can’t speak in detail about that.”
Cook’s comments implied that the status quo of digital surveillance was sufficient for investigations. He said that Apple responded promptly to all requests for data from the police (when, he added, “They’ve gone through the lawful process”) and added that he hoped law enforcement “would say that we’ve been cooperating well.”
Cook said that, despite objections by the UK government to the use of end-to-end encryption in apps like iMessage and WhatsApp, there was lots of information tech companies could share in the form of metadata. This does not include the content of messages, but the context — when they were sent, from where, and to who. “Metadata, if you’re putting together a profile, is very important,” said Cook.
Three terrorist attacks in the last three months have resurfaced the issue of online surveillance and regulation in the UK. The current Conservative government has consistently demanded new powers in this domain, and last year introduced legislation that would — hypothetically — allow it to force companies to break encryption protocols. However, the political costs of doing so might be steep, and at this point both government and industry simply seem to be talking up their respective positions. After this week’s UK general election is over, though, the conversation is bound to move forward.
Although we were rebuffed at Apple’s main demo area at WWDC today, we did get a chance to go listen to the HomePod later on. In a controlled demo with specific songs designed to show off the HomePod’s strengths, we heard it do some pretty impressive audio tricks. We couldn’t test Siri or pick our own tracks, but we did get to hear it both individually and set up as a pair of stereo speakers.
I’m no audio expert, so my colleagues Vlad and Nilay will surely take me to task for the words I’m about to type, but here goes. The main thing to know is that Apple has done a remarkably good job finding ways to get its speaker to feel like it’s filling a room with sound. It starts with the subwoofer, which delivers bass that doesn’t quite hit you in the chest but does manage to put other smart speakers like the Echo or Google Home to shame. It’s obviously no standalone subwoofer, but it outperforms what you’d expect from a speaker of this size.
The other thing to know is that Apple is doing something interesting with those seven tweeters. Over the course of a few songs, Apple explained the the HomePod isn’t trying to do anything cheap like create artificial stereo by bouncing the left and right channels in different directions. Rather it’s trying to separate out different aspects of the music. Apple referred to the “ambient” parts like background piano music as distinct from the more central parts like the vocals.
Basically, Apple is claiming that, using the microphones, the speaker can work out the shape of the room and then beamform different parts of the song to different areas. So the vocals get pumped straight out into the center of the room while the “ambient” bits get bounced off the wall. I can’t speak to the proper audiophile terms for what they’re talking about, but I can say that it sounded pretty immersive and impressive in person.
That’s not really a surprise — this is called the HomePod, after all, and it seems like it was designed for music rather than as a vehicle for some vision of ambient computing. Siri will be here when it launches in December, but even onstage Apple referred to its assistant as a “musicologist” first and an assistant second.
Apple also paired up a second HomePod for true stereo separation and the sound there  was, er, twice as good. I don’t know that anybody is going to be able to justify buying two of these for a home theater setup, but there are probably some Apple and AirPlay fans who will think about it.
We also heard the sound quality up against an Amazon Echo and a Sonos Play:3 — obviously the HomePod came out on top — but I’m not sure how much credence to lend to that part of the demo. For one thing, the audio from the Echo was playing over Bluetooth. Now I have zero problems saying that the HomePod sounds way better than an Echo, but it’s still not a direct comparison. As far as the Sonos is concerned, I’m not 100 percent sure it was tuned using Sonos’ TruePlay room tuning. The Sonos Play:3 isn’t really the best-sounding Sonos speaker, but I know it can pull off better audio than what I heard today.
Regardless, the takeaway here is that when it comes to smart speakers, the HomePod is likely to be head and shoulders above its direct competitors, the Echo and Google Home. For the price and size, you should expect that, and Apple delivered.
Oh, one last interesting note: the units we listened to had big + and - buttons on the top, not the Siri waveform. The Siri glow is what you should expect to get, but it seems like you will be able to tap the top of the speaker to adjust volume directly instead of controlling everything with Siri or sliders on your iPhone.
At WWDC 2017, Apple is set to announce Business Chat, a feature that looks to be a direct shot at customer service messaging platforms like Facebook Messenger and Twitter’s DM support. Not a whole lot of details are currently available from the official website other than customers will be able to start a chat with businesses by searching for them from Siri, Spotlight, Safari, or Maps. So if Apple can get businesses to sign on, that will help iOS users avoid the need to have Messenger or Twitter installed in order to start interacting (i.e., file complaints) with various companies’ customer service departments.
In a preview screenshot Apple provided, a dad has messaged Apple from his phone to discuss buying an iPad for his daughter. The responder appears to be a real person (he introduces himself by name) which is similar to how Twitter currently handles customer service support. (Typically Twitter-based support team members sign off with their initials to let the customer know who is handling their case.)
Apple also says there will be built-in features like Apple Pay and calendar integration, which will allow Business Chat to facilitate purchases without requiring the user to exit the chat. Facebook’s Messenger for Business announced a similar integration back in 2015. China’s WeChat has long had a feature like this as well.
We’ll find out more details on how exactly this works when Apple officially unveils Business Chat in a session on June 9th. For now, the feature is available in an iOS 11 developer preview.
Apple today announced that, as part of its updated Metal 2 graphics tech in macOS High Sierra, that Macs would soon support external GPUs via the Thunderbolt 3 port. This paves the way for virtual reality development on lighter-weight laptops and also opens up the possibility that Mac users will some day be able to plug in and play with VR headsets. Steam owner Valve also announced today that it’s made SteamVR available for Mac in beta.
To help developers get started, Apple has also started selling its very own external graphics enclosure to developers. The idea is to give Mac owners who’ve always wanted and needed a bit more horsepower the extra juice required to work on graphically intensive VR and 3D applications and games. This all seems to work only in the beta version of macOS High Sierra, which is now available. However, an Apple preview page for the new OS says external GPU support might not arrive for everyday consumers until spring of 2018.
That said, the Apple-approved enclosure on the company’s website is a Sonnet external GPU chassis with Thunderbolt 3 support and a 350-watt power supply. The package comes with a AMD Radeon RX 580 8GB graphics card, which is a VR-ready GPU. Developers will also get $100 toward a HTC Vive headset to use for VR purposes. You have to be a member of the Apple Developer Program to even be eligible to purchase the kit.
This is what the VR stations at #wwdc2017 look like. MacBook, GPU Enclosure, Vive. pic.twitter.com/nQ8n8pPmlP
This is all a promising start to bringing the Mac platform up to speed for the VR community. But there’s still a lot of work that needs to be done before developers, and especially consumer, can look at Apple’s platform as a viable place to create and consume VR content. At least in the short term, when external GPU support does launch, the MacBook and iMac line might just become more viable gaming machines.
I just spent a moment with Apple’s new HomePod intelligent speaker, which kind of looks like a mesh-wrapped Mac Pro. It comes in black and white, and it’s cute. Like a cute little ovoid thing. It has seven tweeters in the bottom, along with a four-inch woofer, and six microphones at the top. It’s about the size of two large grapefruits stacked on top of each other, I guess, if I needed to describe it. Smaller than a breadbox, anyway.
When you say “Hey, Siri,” it lights up at the top with a little waveform, and you can ask for a lot of Siri-type things, like reminders, timers, and random questions. Or at least, it’s supposed to do that. In the “demo” area, I looked around at all the Apple representatives, said “Hey, Siri” in a clear voice, and all I heard in response was the sound of their laughter. Nice try, Dieter.
The bit on top that lights up is neat, though. It looks a lot like the waveform you see on Siri when you speak to it on your phone — though, of course, this doesn’t look like a complete LCD here. You won’t be getting any visual answers out of the HomePod.
There’s also an A8 chip inside that does automatic EQ and echo cancellation with beamforming for the tweeters — it detects the size and shape of a room to tune the best sound. Again, this isn’t something Apple is showing in the demo area, but given the company’s ability to make great hardware, I bet it works well. I’m actually more curious to know how Apple is handling multi-room setups — something no company not named “Sonos” has really figured out.
Apple’s also promoting the privacy aspects of the HomePod — it doesn’t send anything to Apple until you say “Hey Siri,” and then it sends data using an anonymous encrypted Siri ID. We’ll have to learn a lot more about what that means, of course.
Apple’s billing the HomePod as a home music speaker first of all, connecting it to the iPod, iPhone, Apple Music, and AirPods. So there’s a lot of focus on Apple Music integration. Even still, with integrated microphones and Siri, it obviously competes with Amazon’s various Echo devices and Google Home, and Apple hasn’t really discussed in detail how Siri and HomeKit will match the extensibility of those platforms. But it’s exciting, and we’ll see when it ships in December for $349.
Unfortunately, that’s about all we can say about this thing for now. The HomePods are here in the demo area, but they’re nonfunctional beyond lighting up. I plan on going back into the demo zone and hollering “Hey Siri” again, and I’ll report back if anything there changes.

Apple’s latest desktop powerhouse is a pro variant of its all-in-one iMac, which will start shipping in December starting at $4,999. The device has all sorts of top-notch specs, including a Xeon processor that scales up to 18 cores and an all-new AMD Radeon Vega GPU.
But the computer’s most aesthetically pleasing perk happens to be an all-new space gray finish alongside space gray accessories, which we’ve never seen from Apple before. Unfortunately, the company says these new color options for the wireless Magic Mouse, Magic Trackpad, and Magic Keyboard will be restricted to buyers of the iMac Pro, according to 9to5Mac.
That’s a huge bummer, considering how sleek and much-needed a black option is. Of course, Apple has been known to take hardline stances on certain design aspects, choosing to restrict certain color choices to distinct price tiers. But this is a whole other level of unnecessary, especially when you factor in just how many customers would shell out for mice and keyboards in a color beyond bland Apple white.
Apple also confirmed to 9to5Mac that the iMac Pro will not have user-replaceable RAM, which is perhaps equally disappointing but much less surprising. The company currently allows users to replace the RAM on its 27-inch 5K iMac model, but not on the 21.5-inch one. So it’s pretty in line with Apple’s stance on part swapping to have gone the more restrictive route with the iMac Pro. The good news: you can configure the device to have up to 128GB of ECC RAM (if you’re willing to spend a fortune), which is specifically designed to protect against data loss and corruption. The base model, however, will start at 32GB.
Chris Hemsworth’s Marvel Cinematic Universe character Thor was an integral part of the first Avengers movie, but as the shared-world series has continued, he’s been moved out of the main storyline in preparation for his sidebar movie, Thor: Ragnarok. In an Instagram video Hemsworth posted today, he pouted a little about that. While supposedly on a set visit for Avengers: Infinity War, which began shooting back in January 2017, he also took out his frustrations on action figures of the Avengers.
Just stumbled across a little secret Avengers rehearsal by the @therussobrothers
A post shared by Chris Hemsworth (@chrishemsworth) on Jun 5, 2017 at 9:25am PDT
Poor guy. But what else could this short be telling us that ordinary fans might be missing? We live in an era where any piece of franchise-related media is worth picking over for deeper meaning and possible hints at what’s to come. Here, it seems pretty clear that Hemsworth, one of the biggest stars on the planet, doesn’t mind playing with action figures. But what if we went deeper? I asked The Verge staff about the kinds of speculative clickbait stories we could launch after watching this video. Here’s where we landed.
(We don’t actually have any intention of reporting these stories. This is just us pitching ideas after having too much caffeine — and seeing too many terrible headlines from people extrapolating movie theories out of virtually no evidence.)
Did Chris Hemsworth just confirm Captain America's death in the next Marvel film?
Marvel has a problem with killing off its bankable characters. This Instagram video from Chris Hemsworth shows the studio may finally be willing to change course.
Captain American is an idiot, says Hemsworth
Are Chris Hemsworth and Chris Evans feuding? Based on this video, maybe!
Guns aren't cool, says Chris Hemsworth
Chris Hemsworth takes a subtle, yet provocative stance against gun violence in his latest Instagram post.
New set video proves Thor would win a fight against all the MCU heroes
See Thor take down Iron Man, Captain America, and Spider-Man in 10 seconds flat in this exciting behind-the-scenes leaked video!
Chris Hemsworth proves he's the best of the Chrises with this one Instagram video
Even though Chris Pine is getting all the attention right after his turn in Wonder Woman, Chris Hemsworth is putting up a fight.
Chris Hemsworth launches major feud with Russo brothers: “thanks for nothing, losers"
Avengers: Infinity War is currently in production, but one of its stars may want out.
Just days before Apple’s WWDC 2017 event kicked off, Foxconn employees dumped a bunch of rumors on Reddit, signaling tons of new hardware to come from the Cupertino-based company. From new iPhones to an AR glasses, the leaks suggested that there were quite a few hardware news to watch for. But just how many of them did Apple actually reveal in the opening keynote?
If you missed it, here’s a supercut of the entire two-hour keynote edited down to a snack-sized 19 minutes featuring iOS 11, iMacs, HomePod, and more. And when you’re done, you can check out more detailed looks at each story here.
iOS 11 isn’t coming out until this fall, but Apple had the preview loaded up on its new 10.5-inch iPad Pro today for members of the press to check out. I got to the play with the operating system for a few minutes while handling the tablet, and what stands out the most is just how complicated it’s starting to feel — but in a way that shows the platform is evolving, not getting harder to use.
The biggest updates in iOS 11 are on the iPad. And for once, iOS is taking hints from macOS, instead of the other way around.
iOS’s new dock, in particular, feels like it’s come straight from the Mac. It can now hold as many apps as you want, and those apps retain their previous windowing state when they’re opened up again — so something you had in split-screen will stay in split-screen when you resume use of it. It’s a little bit like the Mac’s Spaces features.
The dock hides much like it does for fullscreen Mac apps, too. But instead of moving your mouse cursor down, you just swipe up to reveal the dock again. Swiping to find the dock feels really natural, and, more importantly, it’s handy. I’ve never felt like I was able to quickly move around iOS, but it already feels like iOS 11 will start to change that.
Part of that is because Apple has also brought something that resembles Mission Control to the iPad as well. If you swipe up on the dock (or do a single long swipe while the dock is hidden), all of your open apps, including ones you have in split-screen, will appear in a grid. It’s way more efficient than the existing task switcher, which required you to move through apps one at a time. (One other interesting note about all this swiping: it sure helps to obviate the need for a Home button!)
This all comes together to help make iOS feel like a big interconnected workspace, instead of a storage container for a bunch of disparate apps. Apple’s new drag-and-drop feature is another example of that. You no longer have to use the awful share sheet to move a single file around; you can just drag an object around the operating system until you find the app you want to put it in.
Selecting multiple objects for drag and drop is pretty easy: you press and hold on a single object, then tap any additional objects with another finger. It seems ideal for moving a few items at once, rather than the contents of an entire folder, but it’s still a huge improvement over the old way of moving things around, where every item felt locked into an app until it went through the magic “share sheet” and got spit out on the other side.
Apple’s new Files app ties into this, too, as a central hub for moving things around. The app is basically just Finder from the Mac, but it’s been upgraded in a really smart way: cloud services like Dropbox and Box are build right into the sidebar instead of with premade folders for photos and movies. Tags are there, too, and I expect to use them exactly as infrequently (never) as I do on the Mac. But hey, they’re pretty easy to apply thanks to the drag-and-drop feature.
On one hand, all of these changes complicate the iPad and could make the device harder for some people to use. The operating system no longer feels like it’s as “on rails” as it used to be. But in my quick use of iOS 11, the interactions all seemed to make sense, especially as someone coming from the Mac. That’s something I’ve been hoping Apple would do for a long time, and it’s shaping the iPad Pro into something much more similar to a traditional laptop.
Some other stray impressions:
Google today released its monthly security update for Pixel and Nexus devices. The security patch is rolling out over-the-air and can also be downloaded directly if you’re not one for waiting. In addition to bolstering the security of its devices, Android Police points out that Google included a pretty important Pixel software fix in this update: a nasty bug that has resulted in some Pixel smartphones randomly freezing has supposedly been fixed. Well, hopefully.
A post on Google’s product forums confirms that the fix “should address many of the freezing issues that have been reported.” Count me as one of the unlucky ones; my Pixel has been completely locking up at unpredictable times — at least once or twice a day — for months. And it rarely recovers or snaps out of it, so I usually have to hold down the power button for a hard reset whenever the freezes occur. (Yes, the Pixel’s camera is so good that it makes putting up with this stuff worth it.) Not all Pixel devices exhibit the issue. My colleague Vlad hasn’t encountered it at all, for example.
I’m installing the OTA right now, so I’m trying to be optimistic that the freezing will vanish for good. But the company warns that “freezing and general device performance issues can be caused my many different things” so Google is encouraging users to report back on whether it truly alleviates the problem.
Now if only Google could improve the Pixel’s Bluetooth performance...
If you’re looking for a wired keyboard from Apple, well you’re out of luck. The company introduced the Magic Keyboard with Numeric Keypad shortly after its WWDC keynote today, and quickly removed its wired keyboard with numeric keypad from its online store.
The move increases the price of the cheapest keyboard you can purchase from Apple from $49 to $79 for its standard Magic Keyboard, while the new magic keyboard with numeric keypad will come in at $129. A $50 premium for a few additional keys is definitely ridiculous, but plenty of people can’t work without the numeric keyboard, and the wireless capabilities have been a request for some time.
It just would’ve been nice if Apple kept around the wired keyboard for people who don’t want to drop $130 on the same keyboard, just without the wire. You can purchase the Magic Keyboard with Numeric Keypad from Apple’s online store today.
Earlier today, Apple announced a new version of the iPad Pro, a 10.5-inch model that is technically just a little bit larger than the earlier 9.7-inch tablet but, with 40 percent smaller bezels, it offers much more screen real estate. Like all of the high-end iPad Pros its an impressive piece of hardware, with a brighter display, a new 64-bit A10X Fusion chip, and something called Pro Motion that increases the refresh rate and, Apple claims, makes the accessory Pencil feel even more natural.
For most people, the first question to ask is probably: okay, well how big is it? We didn’t have a 9.7-inch model on hand to compare the two, but I can tell you that the 10.5-inch iPad felt like a “normal-sized” iPad and isn’t nearly as ginormous as the 12.9-inch iPad Pro.
What’s more interesting are the new iOS 11 multitasking features for the iPad that are borrowed from macOS. With these changes it feels as though Apple has stopped trying to convince its iPad users (or potential iPad customers) that they should just figure out how to be productive despite mobile limitations, and has acknowledged that some people might actually like to be able to manipulate apps and files on mobile. In some ways it’s even reminiscent of what Microsoft was trying to do with Windows 8 on the Surface tablet, as my colleague Tom Warren astutely pointed out.
The first thing you’ll notice about the new iOS 11 on the iPad is that there’s an app dock at the bottom of the display. It automatically appears on the home screen, but when you’re in an app, you can swipe up from the bottom of the screen to pull up the dock at any time. From there, you can drag and drop another app to the side of the screen to put it in multitasking mode. Some, like iMessage, even exist as floating sidebars now, rather than apps that snap on to the side of the screen.
After using the iPad Pro for just a few minutes, I’ve pretty much determined that a dock is one of the simplest and best things Apple could have done for the iPad, which I’ve had a hard time accepting as a true productivity device, but there’s more.
You can now switch between iPad apps by activating a Mission Control-like interface using a four-finger swipe. This casts apps into spaces and lets you look at all of the apps that are opened or running. The four-finger swipe felt a little awkward and not entirely responsive on the iPad I tried it on, but iOS 11 is still in beta for now.
Drag and drop is also worth mentioning. In iOS 11 you can open two apps side by side — let’s use Mail and Safari as an example — and drag and drop web content directly into an email draft. You can also drag and drop any app into the dock, or just move it around the home screen. (The little delete “x” won’t appear as you’re doing this.) Apps still fall into Apple’s predetermined arrangement of application icons, which means you can’t move apps anywhere; and you still can’t put files anywhere you want on the mobile home screen. But Apple thinks it has a solution for that, too.
Which is Files, the thing that was leaked just before WWDC kicked off today. I didn’t get the chance to play with this app much, and again, I was using it on a preregistered demo model. But one of the more interesting features of this is the ability to use multi-touch to grab a bunch of files from one folder and drag them into another. You’re supposed to press down on one file first, and then you can use your remaining free fingers to tap other file thumbnails, and they’re immediately added to your selection.
There are other new iPad Pro-specific features, too. The text you write with the accessory Pencil can be indexed in Spotlight search results. And, of course, there’s an Apple-made smart accessory keyboard for this particular size and model.
The 10.5-inch iPad Pro goes on sale today and ships next week; while iOS 11 ships to consumers in the fall. The iPad costs $648 for the 64-gigabyte base model and creeps up from there, which not surprisingly puts it firmly in the category of very high-end tablets, unlike the $329 model we reviewed a couple months ago.
Despite the fact that Apple’s iPad sales have been declining for the past several quarters, Apple seems determined to make iPad work as a serious computing device, not just a tablet people use to shop and browse and consume. This is clearly another step in that direction.

The go-to move with any major developer conference is to kick things off with a cheesy video of happy young people using your technology in sunny urbanscapes, and Apple has long been a pioneer of this genre. Today’s WWDC opener, however, was a little bit different, depicting a nightmare glitch scenario wherein all apps on all iPhones and iPads around the world just malfunction and cease to exist.
Cue a fast-moving whirlwind tour of a planet Earth tilted off its axis by hordes of disoriented, howling humans unable to distribute their selfies to a wide enough audience or communicate just how mad and impulsive they are to eat an entire pizza solo. It’s a strangely satisfying and endearing form of self-deprecation, and it culminates on the cheerful note — for all the developers attending Apple’s big annual dev conference — that the world is relying on the apps made for iOS devices, so we’d better keep making them. Or else, the fragile world order around us will collapse into total chaos and disorder.
Russian hacking groups played a larger role in the 2016 election than anyone realized, according to a top secret NSA report published today in The Intercept. That campaign includes targeting a supplier of US voting software, as well as sending spear-phishing emails to more than 100 local election officials just days before Election Day. The result is a troubling new turn in Russian hacking efforts, although there’s no indication the group had access to voting totals or election results.
The Intercept report comes after a string of hacks in the run-up to the 2016 Election, when hackers stole and published emails from the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign. In January, the Director of National Intelligence attributed those leaks to a Russian influence campaign ordered directly by Russian president Vladimir Putin. Putin himself has denied directly ordering the campaign, saying instead that it may have been carried out by “patriots” sympathetic to Russian interests.
But while those hacks focused on influence operations, The Intercept report reveals a hacking group linked to Russia was also directly targeting US voting infrastructure. In one campaign, the group sent attempted phishing emails to seven different employees at an unnamed voting system company. Three of the emails went to non-existent email addresses, but at least one is believed to have successfully compromised its target. According to the NSA’s assessment, the group was “probably trying to obtain information associated with election-related hardware and software applications.”
In another case, the group sent test emails to two “absentee request” accounts for the election office for American Samoa. The emails bounced and did not contain any malicious links or attachments. As a result, analysts believed the emails were research for a separate absentee ballot spoof to be deployed at a later time.
Nothing in the report indicates the group had any direct access to vote totals or the ability to directly alter election results. Still, the report indicates the Russian government was working to compromise the organizations and individuals providing election equipment and maintaining voter rolls. That’s a significant step beyond simply influencing public opinion by publishing stolen information, which had been the focus of previously attributed attacks.
The report itself is still classified, and NSA may have already located the source of the leak. Shortly after the Intercept’s report was published, the Justice Department announced the prosecution of 25-year-old contractor Reality Leigh Winner, who is charged removed classified material from a secure facility and mailing it to an unnamed online news outlet. Winner was arrested at her home on Saturday, and appeared in federal court in Georgia this afternoon.
Update 5:52PM ET: Updated with information on the charges against Reality Leigh Winner.
Microsoft has filed a trademark for a mysterious S logo today. The logo, discovered by a NeoGAF user, is related to “Video game consoles for use with an external display screen or monitor; video game interactive remote control units” and “Computer game software for use with personal computers and video game consoles,” according to the trademark filing. It’s not clear whether the trademark is related to a new game for Microsoft’s Xbox One consoles, or even Project Scorpio itself.
The timing of the trademark filing is significant. Microsoft just teased its Project Scorpio dev kit, and the company is planning to unveil its Xbox Project Scorpio console on Sunday at E3. Microsoft is expected to reveal the final naming, price, and design of the new Xbox console at E3. Microsoft’s Surface Studio naming was revealed in a trademark filing ahead of the company’s PC hardware last fall, and it’s possible we might be witnessing the logo for the new Xbox here.
Whether Microsoft chooses just Xbox Scorpio, Xbox S, or another name entirely will all be revealed on Sunday at 2PM PT / 5PM ET.
District 9 director Neill Blomkamp is working on a new project under his latest undertaking, Oats Studios. The company’s YouTube channel released the official trailer for Volume 1, presumably the first entry in a bizarre and bloody series of experimental films. Or possibly it’s a collection of images from a handful of those short films, as in Oats’ first volume of short films.
The Volume 1 trailer features a nonsensical mash-up of blood-soaked bodies, sci-fi dystopias, and Sigourney Weaver. Truly, I have no idea what’s going on here. There’s levitation, a whip-toting lizard creature, and (best guess) the cooking show from hell. At the very least, it’s consistent with the teaser released last month, in which it would appear that the aforementioned lizard race has imprisoned the people of Earth.
Apple’s WWDC 2017 keynote just wrapped, where key executives Craig Federighi, Phil Schiller, and, of course, Tim Cook, took the stage to announce updates headed to iPhones, MacBooks, Apple TV, and more.
The rumors for this year’s WWDC came in the final hours leading up to the event, with hints of new hardware and, of course, software news for developers to help prep the release of consumer updates in the fall. We were also anticipating the company to finally take Siri up against the likes of Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant on the hardware and smart home front — and it looks like it arrived in the form of the Apple HomePod.
Here are the highlights from today’s keynote.
So let’s get the Siri speaker rumors out of the way: it turns out Apple wasn’t quite aiming its smart speaker to go against just Amazon Echo and Google Home, but also the Sonos home entertainment speakers. Called the HomePod, it uses spacial awareness to tune and better fill the room with sound based on the space it’s in. It also has a “Musicologist” feature that works with Apple Music to stream the music you ask the speaker’s built-in Siri to play. You can even ask more complex, music-related questions like “Who’s the drummer in this song?” or “What album came out on this day 20 years ago?”
The HomePod will be available in two colors — black or white — and will integrate Siri in an Amazon Echo / Google Home-like use case. You can ask it to control smart home devices and check the day’s weather and news briefings. Apple priced the HomePod at $349, with plans to ship it in December first to customers in the US, UK, and Australia. It will enter more international markets next year. Check out our hands-on with the HomePod for a first look.
Apple’s introducing updated iMac desktops with improved Retina displays, graphics boosts, Kaby Lake processors, and USB-C. They will also support graphics for VR content creation. During the keynote, Apple demoed this by showing off a VR game featuring Darth Vader, a lightsaber, and TIE fighter.
There’s a new iMac Pro as well, with a 5K display with improved cooling capacity, and 8-core Xeon processor (upgradeable up to 18-core,) up to 4TB of SSD, up to 128GB of ECC memory, four Thunderbolt 3 ports, and built-in 10GB Ethernet.
The new iMac starts at $1,099 for the 21.5-inch model, and $1,299 for the 4K model. MacBooks will get upgraded, too; the MacBook Pro starting at $1,299, which includes the updated Kaby Lake processor. The iMac Pro starts at $4,999, and ships in December.
The new version of iOS software has some pretty social updates, such as an update to Siri that has improved speech, the ability to help translate sentences into different languages, and on-device learnings that suggest actions based on what you do on your iPhone or iPad. iMessages now live in the iCloud, with synchronized conversations that you can delete from any device you own that are under the same account. You can also pay and receive payments from contacts through iMessage — so no more Venmo or Square Cash if you don’t want to download extra apps.
Photo capture is also improved, with better low-light performance, and the ability to edit Live Photos so you can change the key still image or trim the video. There’s a new control center as well, which relies a lot on 3D Touch and condenses most controls on the lower half of the screen without looking cluttered.
There’s also a new safety feature that recognizes when a user is driving and automatically turns on Do Not Disturb to prevent distractions. When you’re available to be more social, you can now head to Apple Music to see what your friends are listening to and check out shared playlists.
Lastly, the App Store has been redesigned for better discovery and a How To section for tips on how to use various popular apps. Apple’s also bringing back the “App of the Day” section to promote users to open the App Store more frequently.
On the iPad, iOS 11 improves multitasking that lets users pull up an app from the dock and drag it onto the screen to split the screen. Similar to what you can do on a MacBook, you can use touch to hold and drag folders, files, or photos and drop them in a different app such as Mail or iMessage. Handwritten text from an Apple Pencil will also be searchable from the Notes app. Apple claims it uses “deep learning” to recognize penmanship.
Apple also talked briefly about the Files app that leaked a few hours before the keynote kicked off, which is just a management system that you can use to sort files by size and date, similar to how you’d go through your files on a desktop or laptop.
Just as Lauren Goode predicted, Apple introduced a new ARKit to let developers build augmented reality apps for the iPhone. The kit can help find planes, track motion, and estimate scale and ambient lighting. Popular apps like Pokémon Go will also use ARKit for improved real-time renders.
Rather than requiring external hardware like Microsoft’s HoloLens, Apple seems to be betting on ARKit to provide impressive quality imaging through a device most people already own. We’ll know more on how the quality actually compares when we get to try it out ourselves.
The iPad Pro will now be available in three different sizes, with a new 10.5-inch model introduced today. There’s a 12-megapixel camera, just like the iPhone 7, with a 7MP selfie cam. It supports USB 3.0 and has 10 hours of battery life.
There’s a new feature called ProMotion which reduces the Apple Pencil’s latency to 20 milliseconds. It can automatically adjust the refresh rate based on what you’re watching (fast-moving video versus still image). ProMotion also doubles the refresh rate to up to 120Hz.
The 10.5-inch iPad Pro will be available starting with a 64GB configuration at $649; it’s available to order now and shipping next week.
The upcoming version of macOS will be called High Sierra, and it comes with updates to Safari that help block site trackers and autoplaying videos. Apple’s also added new photo-editing tools like curves (helpful for those who don’t have Adobe Photoshop), and it has better filtering tools to sort images by keywords or faces.
An updated file management system will be a part of the update as well, which speeds up directory cloning with native encryption. On the graphics end, there’s a second version of Metal, support for VR, and a Metal 2 developer kit that you can order with an AMD GPU to tune apps for external graphics.
An update for the Apple Watch is coming which introduces new faces that display different types of informations, such as Siri reminders or more visual ones that feature Toy Story characters a la Mickey Mouse. There’s also a fitness-focused update, which includes monthly challenges to encourage the wearer to get more active and NFC-enabled data sharing where the user can tap their Apple Watch on gym equipment to pair the two, sharing the most accurate calorie burn and activity information.
There’s also a new Music app to make finding and playing music via the Apple Watch more visual — you can now use a new dock layout to scroll through recently opened apps.
Catch up on the latest news from WWDC 2017 right here.
Apple's biggest conference of the year kicked off with a lengthy keynote as usual, bringing us news about its take on the smart home speaker, updates to its MacBook and iMac lines, and a look at what's to come from iOS 11. Catch all the latest news right here as we go through the week at Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference in San Jose, CA.
The keynote event of Apple’s Worldwide Developer’s Conference clocked in at more than two hours, and it was full of news about what Apple’s doing with macOS, its hardware, and especially iOS 11. But there’s only so much you can cram into two hours when you have to focus on big features like augmented reality or launching a smart speaker.
That’s why one of the best parts of the show is the moment when Apple just says “screw it” and dumps a few dozen new features into one slide. There isn’t a ton of detail beyond the screen that Apple SVP Craig Federighi flashed onstage, but it’s enough to give us an idea of what we’ll be looking forward to in iOS 11.
Digital assistants are just as frustrating as they are helpful, so making it easier to interact with them is always welcome. It looks like Apple is finally going to add one of the most requested features for any digital assistant — you’ll be able to type to Siri in iOS 11. Socially awkward tech nerds, rejoice!
QR codes aren’t nearly as big in America as they are in other parts of the world, and so Apple has been able to skate by without natively supporting QR codes for a while now. But it looks like the company’s finally changing that by adding QR code support to, likely, the native camera app in iOS 11. Finally — no more bothering with third-party apps once a year when you need to scan a QR code.
Apple started allowing developers to offer third-party keyboards with iOS 8. Since then, it’s been picking some of the most-loved features available in that marketplace (like stickers and apps) and slowly adding them to iMessage. The newest one coming to iOS 11 is one-handed mode. We obviously haven’t seen exactly how it will work, but expect the feature to squish the keyboard layout to your preferred side, maybe even in an arc.
There’s also a mention of “one-handed zoom in Maps,” which will hopefully make Apple’s mapping app a bit easier to use.
Following in the footsteps of competitors like Samsung, which started allowing screen recording (and GIF creation) on its last few Galaxy phones, Apple appears ready to add that functionality in iOS 11. Here’s hoping Apple will let you capture and create GIFs, too.
This feature got a bit more of a tease during the iPad Pro demo, but it looks like Apple is making it much easier to mark up the things you screenshot on your iOS 11 devices. Instead of dipping back into the camera roll after you take a screenshot, you’ll be able to quickly re-crop and markup the image right away.
Apple is redesigning its entire App Store in iOS 11, so it’s not surprising that it’s going to overhaul the Podcasts app, which is a whole marketplace of its own. Discovery has always been tough on Apple’s own podcast listening app, so this is the company’s chance to get it right.
I don’t know about you, but every (rare) time I use Safari on my iPhone I always forget how to access tab switching. Then, after I find it, I wind up stumbling around the interface, trying apply Chrome’s tab behaviors to a different browser. Is iOS 11 going to fix that? Hard to say. But making it easier to swap between tabs — and giving 3D Touch some purpose — is a welcome change.
Speaking of 3D Touch, it appears that Apple is expanding its usage in iOS 11 in other ways, too. It will apparently serve as a shortcut to the “look up” feature, which lets users get a quick set of definitions or related web search results for a highlighted word or phrase. 3D Touch is also getting more integration in iMessage, with apple adding an ability to share URLs with the feature.
Something Siri’s been behind on when compared to Google’s Assistant is knowing when and where you’re going. That will change with iOS 11, which will now grab your flight information and keep it visible (and make it searchable) in a Spotlight widget.
There’s a lot more listed — better non-English language support, improved password management, FaceTime Live Photos — and we’re sure to learn more about iOS 11 in the week ahead. Let us know what you’re looking forward to most in the comments below.
Apple has officially announced the HomePod speaker today, which the company claims will reinvent music in homes like the iPod did for music on the go.
The new smart speaker features a seven-speaker array of tweeters. Additionally, there’s a four-inch upward-facing subwoofer and an Apple A8 chip. The speaker features “spatial awareness,” which allows it to automatically tune the sound to the space that the speaker is in. Setup is simple — simply hold an iPhone next to the HomePod, similar to setting up a pair of AirPods. (HomePod is compatible with the iPhone 5S and up.) You’ll also be able to use a pair of HomePods together in a single room for improved sound. HomePod is also compatible with Apple’s newly announced AirPlay 2 multi-room audio solution, so you’ll be able to use the speakers together with other HomePods or other AirPlay 2-compatible speakers around your house.
HomePod is obviously compatible with Apple Music, and can wirelessly access the full library of songs from Apple Music. There’s a six-microphone array, used to access Siri, which has been upgraded with even more capacity when it comes to specific music requests, like “Who’s playing drums on this track?” or “What was the top song on May 5th, 2016?” Apple says that the microphones are good enough to hear commands from far away, even with the music at full volume. The Siri waveform appears on top of the device when the assistant is activated, similar to the LED lights on an Amazon Echo, although the HomePod also features integrated touch controls as well.
Along with the music support, HomePod is designed to work as a home assistant, so you can use Siri for things like unit conversion, news, weather, traffic, sports, reminders, timers, and more. Apple’s own services tie in, too: you can send iMessages through HomePod, or control HomeKit devices. HomePod will also serve as a HomeKit hub to allow you to control smart home products away from your home, too.
Apple also highlighted the security of HomePod. While the device will always listen for a “Hey, Siri” prompt to activate, information won’t be sent to Apple’s servers until after that command is heard. And what information is sent is “encrypted and sent using an anonymous Siri identifier.”
The speaker hardware itself is a small cylinder covered in mesh that brings to mind a wider, squatter Logitech UE Boom, and will be available in both white and space gray. HomePod will cost $349 when it ships in December in the US, UK, and Australia.

Apple announced some new updates for the iPad Pro at WWDC as part of the upcoming iOS 11 update that finally builds out the tablet’s potential as a professional device, with what Apple calls “the largest iOS release for iPad ever.”
The Dock is getting overhauled, and now resembles the dock on a Mac. Users can stick as many apps as they want into the dock, and access it from anywhere in an application to easily switch between apps or simply drag out a second application in split-screen.
Additionally, Apple is also upgrading multitasking on the iPad, adding a new app switcher to show multiple apps at the same time, similar to Spaces on the Mac. iOS 11 will also allow users to drag and drop text, images, and other snippets between applications, similar to the third-party implementation developed by Readdle earlier this year.
There’s a new Files application that leaked out earlier, which makes managing files easier. It can tie into cloud services like Dropbox, Box, or Google Drive as well. Files works with the new drag-and-drop support, too, making it simple to access documents in other apps, too.
Additionally, the Apple Pencil is more deeply integrated into iOS 11. Simply tapping on the lock screen opens up the iPad to the Notes app in iOS 11, and anything you handwrite in Notes is searchable through machine learning that analyzes your written text. Anything that you can screenshot can be automatically marked up with Pencil. There’s a new document scanner in the Notes application, which allows documents to be easily digitized and written on all in one place.
As Apple continues to face pressure from devices like Microsoft’s Surface Laptop and Google’s Chromebook in fighting for the attention of students and workers looking for simple productivity devices, these updates could go a long way toward furthering the professional applications of Apple’s tablet hardware.
iOS 11 is expected to release sometime this fall.

Today, President Donald Trump endorsed a plan to hand over oversight of the nation’s airspace to a nonprofit corporation that will likely be largely controlled by the major airlines. Republicans argue that privatizing air traffic control will help save money and fast-track important technological upgrades. But Democrats and consumer groups criticize that plan as a corporate giveaway that will inevitably harm passengers.
Trump announced his support for the proposal as part of his administration’s kick-off of “infrastructure week,” in which the president hopes to reclaim multiple weeks of bad headlines by highlighting his campaign promise to rebuild the nation’s crumbling roads and bridges. Trump is expected to travel to Ohio later this week to galvanize support for his still amorphous plan.
The air traffic reform proposal, which fell short in Congress last year, would transfer oversight from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to a government-sanctioned, independent entity that would be made up of appointees from industry stakeholders. The effort picked up steam when the union representing air traffic controllers endorsed the plan, citing years of understaffing by the FAA.
Some passengers may balk at the idea of handing over day-to-day management of the nation’s highly complex air traffic control system to the same companies that rack up tens of thousands of customer complaints a year, and occasionally physically assault or drag passengers off their planes. But the Trump administration argues this is the only way to modernize a system that still runs on technology that’s been around since World War II.
Many supporters, though, conflate the bill to privatize air traffic control with an ongoing effort to modernize the technology that powers air traffic control. The FAA is already years into a technology upgrade known as NextGen, which involves moving from the current system based on radar and voice communications to one based on satellite navigation and digital communications. The FAA wants to use GPS technology to shorten routes, save time and fuel, and reduce traffic delays by increasing capacity.
Supporters of the White House’s plan say a new, corporate-run agency would be able to complete the shift to NextGen on a much faster timeline. They argue that congressional squabbling, including the occasional government shutdown and controller furloughs, has made for inconsistent funding for the FAA. “If we want to continue to have the safest air traffic control system in the world, we need to modernize technology and ensure that the system cannot continue to be interrupted by Congressional budget impasses,” writes Chris Ward, former head of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which oversees the busiest airports in the nation. “This approach keeps costs down, reduces delays and enhances safety.”
Trump has adopted the belief that privatization equals better technology. “Today we’re proposing to American air travel into the future — finally,” Trump said during today’s announcement at the White House. He later sat at a desk and signed a list of “principles” on air traffic control — basically his support for the proposal in written form — in a bit of stagecraft designed to look like a bill-signing.
But privatization won’t directly affect the rollout of NextGen technology, and critics argue that conflating the two amount to nothing other than a vague promise to speed up the timeline of the rollout by eliminating bureaucratic hurdles.
Trump seems to have awkwardly confused ATC privatization with NextGen.
Critics also point out that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has said that the privatization effort would increase the deficit by $20 billion over 10 years, which could undermine the implementation of NextGen technology.
Trump’s plan is seen as identical to a bill proposed by Pennsylvania Congressman Bill Shuster, who chairs the House’s Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. (In 2015, Politico reported that Shuster was dating a top lobbyist for Airlines for America, an industry group that supports the privatization effort. Shuster has said the relationship doesn’t effect his policymaking decisions.)
Unsurprisingly, many of the big airlines support the privatization plan. They’ve been lobbying Congress for almost two decades to support separating air traffic control from the FAA, noting that nations like Canada, Germany, France, Australia, New Zealand, and the UK have all shifted control of their airspace to semi-private entities.
But not all of the major carriers are on board. Last year, Delta Air Lines left a major industry group in protest to the privatization effort, citing a study it says predicts that traveler fees could skyrocket 30 percent under a private system. Other critics note that semi-private air traffic groups in countries like Canada and the UK have needed taxpayer-funded bailouts to make up for budget shortfalls.
“Privatization supporters say that shifting the funding for air traffic operations to a private group will lessen the burden on taxpayers,” Steve Dickson, senior VP of flight operations for Delta, wrote in an op-ed last year. “But in practice, it has never worked that way.”
But the bill’s future already seems bleak. Key Republicans say the bill won’t go anywhere without Democratic support in the Senate. And after an extremely rocky start to his presidency, it seems unlikely that Trump can say or do anything to garner votes from across the aisle.
Here's Senate Commerce chair @SenJohnThune saying very politely that FAA privatization is going nowhere. pic.twitter.com/DWgW6NWP4e

One of Microsoft's big claims with its new Surface Pen was that it's the fastest digital pen in the world, making it "twice as responsive as the Apple Pencil.” Today at Apple's WWDC keynote, the iPad maker has fired back with a faster Apple Pencil. Microsoft's Surface Pen has 21ms of latency, and Apple's Pencil now has 20ms with the new iPad Pro, making Apple's the fastest digital pen in the world.
Just like Microsoft, it seems Apple is enabling this faster Apple Pencil thanks to its display technology. The new iPad Pro includes a new display with a 120Hz refresh rate that improves the speed of the Apple Pencil. Either way, it's unlikely anyone is going to notice a 1ms difference between the Surface Pen and Apple Pencil.
While Apple has improved the speed of the Apple Pencil, it's not immediately clear whether the pressure-sensitivity levels have improved. Microsoft has increased the pressure-sensitivity levels on the new Surface Pen to 4096, alongside a 12-gram activation force.
Apple is also improving iOS 11 for Pencil support. Notes hand-written text is now searchable, alongside inline drawings within typed notes. You can even tap on the lock screen with the Pencil to jump straight into the Notes app. iOS 11 will be available later this fall as a free upgrade for existing devices.

Apple announced a new 10.5-inch iPad Pro and a refreshed 12.9-inch model today at its Worldwide Developers Conference. They ship next week; the 10.5-inch model starts at $649 with 64GB of memory, or $779 for a 64GB cellular version. The 12.9-inch version starts at $799 for 64GB of storage and Wi-Fi, or $929 for 64GB of storage with cellular connectivity. They come with up to 512GB of storage. Both iPads are powered by the new A10X six-core CPU and include a 12-core GPU. They support HDR video with a 120Hz refresh rate. Apple says this is ideal for the Apple Pencil because it’s more responsive and drops the latency rate to 20 milliseconds. That refresh rate dynamically adjusts depending on what you’re viewing for smarter power conservation. The True Tone display is also 50 percent brighter than earlier models.
The new iPad Pros also feature a a 12-megapixel rear-facing camera along with a 7-megapixel front-facing camera. Both should last for 10 hours on a single charge. In addition to the iPad, Apple is launching new sleeves and accessories, like a leather sleeve for both that start at $129.
The news follows Apple’s release of another new iPad earlier this year, that it simply calls iPad. That device is 9.7-inches and replaced the iPad Air 2. The price of the iPad has also dropped, too: the 32GB Wi-Fi model starts at $329, and 32GB Wi-Fi and Cellular model is going for $459.



Apple today announced a huge design overhaul of the App Store on iOS, unveiling a all-new interface at its WWDC keynote with a new focus on discovery and how-tos. The main feature is a landing page that highlights just one new app every day, which opens the possibility for new and upcoming developers to get huge boosts from Apple itself when and if they’re able to get the featured spotlight.
In terms of visual language, the new App Store looks very much like Apple Music and Apple News, bringing a cleaner and more consistent and colorful look to its suite of stock service software. Apple is also putting a bigger emphasis on games, breaking out the category as its own tab in the App Store separate from the general purpose “apps” tab. The company is also breaking out in-app purchases on the description page, so they can be purchased right from the App Store and not by only opening and digging through the software itself.
One last big change Apple highlighted onstage today is a new editorially curated focus to the revamped App Store that features a “top story” of the day, how-to guides on using powerful apps like photo editor VSCO, and new article-like description pages for apps that resemble uncluttered blog posts, like something you might read on Medium.

Like the rest of the tech world, Apple wants to make AI on your mobile device as fast and powerful as possible. That’s why the company unveiled a new machine learning framework API for developers today named Core ML.
The key benefit of Core ML will be speeding up how quickly AI tasks execute on the iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch. This could cover everything from text analysis to face recognition, and should have an effect on a broad category of apps. It means, says Apple, that image recognition on the iPhone will be six times faster than on Google’s Pixel.
Core ML will support a number of essential machine learning tools, including all sorts of neural networks (deep, recurrent, and convolutional), as well as linear models and tree ensembles. And because this is Apple, there’s also a privacy focus, too — Core ML is for on-device processing, meaning the data that developers use to improve user experience won’t leave customers’ phones and tablets.
Apple isn’t the only tech company looking to make AI work better on mobile, though, and this announcement fits an industry-wide trend. Both Google and Facebook have previously announced versions of their machine learning frameworks optimized for mobile devices, and chip-maker Qualcomm has created its own software (named the Neural Processing Engine) to smooth the mobile AI experience. Machine learning: it’s not just happening in the cloud anymore.

Apple has announced a tool it calls ARKit, which will provide advanced augmented reality capabilities on iOS. It’s supposed to allow for “fast and stable motion tracking” that makes objects look like they’re actually being placed in real space, instead of simply hovering over it. And yes, this will make Pokémon Go look better.
On stage, Apple showed off a very basic implementation of ARKit: you can map the flat surface of a table and place a teacup on it with realistic perspective, drawing information from an iPhone or iPad’s sensors and cameras. But you can theoretically make much more complex experiences. Sir Peter Jackson’s studio Wingnut AR appeared with a complex augmented reality landscape made in Unreal Engine, which ARKit supports alongside Unity and SceneKit. The demo is supposed to be released as a game “later this year.”
Apple has so far kept a low profile in the augmented reality space, although CEO Tim Cook said last year that the company was investing in it, and that it could be “huge.” Popular third-party iOS apps (like Pokémon Go and Snapchat) incorporated AR capabilities, but Apple’s hardware and software hasn’t been specifically built to enable it, until now.
To some extent, Apple is playing catchup with competitor Google, which already has its Tango augmented reality platform. But Tango is only available on a few Android devices, while Apple’s Craig Federighi boasts that because ARKit will be available across the iOS ecosystem, it’s “the largest AR platform in the world.”
Three years after its debut, Monument Valley is getting a sequel — and it’s launching today on iPhone and iPad. (An Android version is coming “soon.”) The mobile puzzle game burst onto the scene in 2014, and its clever, approachable gameplay coupled with breathtaking, MC Escher-inspired visuals turned it into a runaway success. It's been downloaded more than 30 million times, was featured in an episode of House of Cards, and was named Apple’s iPad game of the year in 2014.
That’s a tough act to follow, and, initially, developer Ustwo Games appeared publicly against the idea of a sequel. After the launch of Monument Valley’s only major expansion, “Forgotten Shores,” the studio switched gears to virtual reality, releasing the mysterious adventure title Land’s End on Gear VR. “We were creatively exhausted as a small team,” says studio head Dan Gray. “We really needed to work on something new.”
But during that time the studio started to change. Last year Ken Wong, lead designer on the original Monument Valley, left to form his own studio Mountains. Meanwhile, Ustwo Games over doubled in size, going from a tiny team of eight to around 20 people. The injection of new blood had a profound impact. “These were all people who joined the team because they loved Monument Valley,” says Gray. “So what we found was, they brought a whole bunch of new ideas that we had never even thought of.”
In its earliest chapters, Monument Valley 2 sticks very closely to the formula laid down by the original. The sequel stars new characters, a mother named Ro and her daughter, but it still features a series of beautiful, colorful buildings that are architecturally impossible. Getting to the end of each stage involves manipulating the landscape to make platforms and bridges connect in ways that wouldn’t make sense in the real world. There’s an incredibly satisfying “ah ha!” moment when you figure out how things click together.
But a few chapters in, Monument Valley starts to expand in new and interesting ways. You’ll encounter portals that shift you from one area of a stage to another, and trees that will only grow when subjected to sunlight. Toward the end you’ll control both characters, which gives a completely different feel to the puzzles.
Perhaps the biggest change in Monument Valley 2, though, is its much larger focus on storytelling. Like the original, the sequel isn’t a game with much in the way of an explicit narrative; there’s little text and no lengthy cutscenes. Instead, it tells its story through a combination of character animations and the environment; you infer what’s going on by watching the mother and daughter and how they interact with the world around them. Over the course of Monument Valley 2’s 14 chapters, you’ll see the pair’s relationship grow, an arc that begins with a young and helpless child who is utterly dependent on her mother, and concludes with her clearly much stronger and more self-sufficient.
According to Gray, the decision to focus on story was inspired in part by the response to the first game. “What surprised us a lot was how much affinity people had for the relationship between Ida and the totem,” he says. “We almost Trojan horsed a story into an experience where people weren’t expecting to feel anything.”
The parental narrative also came about in part because several members of the development team became parents themselves during the gap between the two games. David Fernández Huerta, Monument Valley 2’s art director, had his first child in that time, and he parlayed that personal experience into the game. He says he designed around 100 potential characters for the game, but found that the mother and daughter pair were the most resonant. Meanwhile, certain chapters were inspired largely by his real life. One stage, in which the protagonists separate, takes place in a grey and gloomy brutalist structure, and is based on Huerta’s struggle with coming back to work after paternity leave. “I really wanted that level to feel like how I felt,” he says.
That stage is also one of several that diverts from the original when it comes to visuals. While most stages in the first Monument Valley featured a similar art style — a sort of candy-coated take on MC Escher — the sequel pulls from a more diverse range of inspirations. Some stages look like oppressive buildings in the mold of Boston’s City Hall, while others have more in common with graphic design, like a minimalist Penguin book cover. In large part, the variety of visual styles is meant to reflect the range of emotions in the story. “If we have a broader set of emotions that we’re trying to convey,” says Gray, “that’s obviously going to result in a slightly broader array of visual styles.”
Ro and her child were also chosen as the game’s leads because the team at Ustwo wanted to do its part to help broaden the types of stories told in games. For all the strides the medium has made over the years, games still typically tell a fairly narrow set of stories, helmed by an even more narrow subset of character archetypes.
“Mothers are hardly ever present in video games, and when they are they’re usually something that’s vulnerable that you need to protect,” says Gray. “Usually their entire character is summarized by the fact that they have a child and not much else. With Monument Valley 2, she’s not only there to protect and bestow knowledge on her child, she’s also very influential and powerful within the world of Monument Valley.” Huerta adds, “If you can make a game where the characters have no faces, and tell the evolving relationship of a mother and child over the years, then there’s no excuse. You can tell any story [in a game].”
The sequel is also slightly larger than the original Monument Valley — a relatively short length was one of the few common complaints with the first game — and it sounds like the team has plenty of ideas for ways to potentially expand the experience even more. Of course, whether those ideas will ever be something you can play, either in the form of a sequel or an expansion, isn’t something the team is ready to divulge just yet.
“I’ve always been against working on sequels,” says Huerta. “But there’s something about Monument Valley that is fertile ground — you can do anything with it.”
Apple Music is getting a bit more social, the company announced at WWDC today. Apple showed off new social features that will arrive in iOS 11. The update will allow users to create profiles and share music with their friends.
There will also be a “friends are listening to” section, which will show you what the people you follow have been listening to and liking. (For users who are less social, you can make your profile private and hide your Nickelback love from your friends.)
Apple will also introduce a new shared “up next” list in Apple Music, that will allow users to let friends choose what songs will come up next in a playlist. This will come in handy if you’re using the new HomeKit 2, which allows for control over your speakers and multi-room audio.
Apple also announced MusicKit for developers, which will allow developers to easily integrate Apple Music with their apps. Nike, Anchor, and Shazam are three of the major developers using MusicKit already.
Apple also updated the music app on the Apple Watch as well, with bigger album art, support for multiple playlists, and automatically updated sections like new music based on what you listen to.
After a tumultuous launch in 2015, Apple found its balance with Apple Music after a refresh last year, and this time it seems the company is largely just cleaning up and refocusing certain areas of the app.

Apple’s HomeKit is about to get a much needed major upgrade, thanks to the addition of speakers, the company announced during its WWDC keynote today. The announcement came in the form of a new version of AirPlay, called AirPlay 2, which will allow HomeKit to communicate to speakers. If you happen to own an Apple TV connected to a speaker setup, it can also act as the central hub for you to stream music.
This opens the door for multi-room audio controls from a single device. Apple says it’s signed on a number of manufacturers, including (of course) Apple-owned Beats, but also Bose, Bang & Olufsen, and a number of other speaker makers. It’s unclear if only Apple software will be able to link with HomeKit via AirPlay 2. Yet Apple exec Craig Federighi said onstage that "third-party audio apps will be able to get in on the multi-room audio fun,” opening up the possibility that you’ll be control song streaming via Spotify or Google Play Music as well.
Here’s an partial hardware partner list, as shared by Apple onstage:

Apple is trying to stop distracted driving. The company announced today at its Worldwide Developers Conference that it’s launching “Do Not Disturb While Driving” as part of iOS 11. It’ll block notifications from showing up when Apple determines you’re driving, either through a Bluetooth connection or Wi-Fi doppler. Your iPhone screen will be blacked out until you stop driving.
iMessage will automatically respond to anyone who texts to say that you’re driving. Not every message has to be blocked, though. You can set certain people as important, and anything they send will show up on your phone. If you aren’t actually driving, you can exit this mode, too.
Apple also introduced indoor mapping to Apple Maps today. This functionality is initially coming to malls and airports around the world. Around eight cities will be included at launch. These include Chicago, Hong Kong, New York, and Tokyo. For malls, you’ll be available to view a directory and where stores are in relation to each other. Airports will be similar. There will be around 30 airports at launch, including JFK and La Guardia in New York and London Heathrow Airport.

Apple announced that major changes are coming to Siri across the various hardware platforms that support the digital assistant in iOS 11. There’s a new voice for the digital assistant that’s meant to sound more natural, along with a more visual interface that shows suggestions and follow-ups to your original query.
Siri is also getting a new Translation feature in beta, for translating from English to Chinese, French, German, Italian, and Spanish, with more language combinations coming soon. Siri will also use "on-device learning" to be more predicative about what you want next, based on your existing use of the digital assistant. That learning gets synced across all your devices, but remains private to you, according to Apple.
Additionally, more open third-party support that will allow developers freedom to integrate their apps with the voice-controlled assistant. Developers will be able to do more things, including task management and more.
The updated version of Siri will roll out later this year in iOS 11.

Apple is bringing iMessage to its iCloud platform. The company announced during WWDC that in iOS 11, users will be able to sign in on any device and have all of their messages, thanks to iCloud integration.
iMessage in the Cloud also means if you delete a message on your iPhone, the deletion will be reflected on your Mac, a major update to a major annoyance noticed by anyone who’s ever used the Messages app on an Apple desktop or laptop. The company has also redesigned the app drawer in iMessage, and the cloud integration will allow for smaller backups, as nearly all of your messages except for your most recent ones are stored in the cloud and not on your device.
Apple understands that iMessage is one of the core anchors of iOS as an operating system, keeping people locked into its closed ecosystem by way of blue-bubbled group texts with friends and family. Last year Apple revamped iMessage by adding third-party app extensions, stickers, emoji animations, and a number of other well-known chat app features to make it more competitive against Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, and Snapchat.
The company borrowed a handful of the best messaging features across the entire chat app marketplace to make iMessage more hip, fun, and versatile, and this year, it’s bringing the chat service to the cloud. Also announced today as part of its WWDC keynote is an iMessage and Apple Pay integration, to let you perform peer-to-peer payments, like with Venmo or Square Cash, right from the chat app.

Apple just announced onstage at its Worldwide Developer’s Conference that Apple Pay is getting person-to-person payments. The feature will come in iOS 11, which was announced onstage, and will be available later this year.
It’s an obvious swipe at the part of the payments market that apps like Venmo, PayPal, and Square Cash have cornered. But there’s a catch — P2P payments with Apple Pay will live inside iMessage, and it’s unclear if Apple will let users perform them outside of its messaging app. Also, the money will be transferred to something called an “Apple Pay Cash Card,” which can then be sent to your bank account. That means Apple is not only coming for the Venmos of the world, but maybe the banks themselves.


Apple CEO Tim Cook just officially announced iOS 11 onstage at WWDC 2017. The next major update to the operating system running on millions of iPhones and iPads will improve on the “core technologies” that power the OS and also introduce numerous new user-facing features. Chief among them are new, improved productivity solutions for iPad, but other enhancements are coming to Messages, Apple Pay, and other apps. iOS 11 will be released this fall — presumably alongside new iPhone 8 and iPhone 7S smartphones. A public beta will be available later in June.
The first new iOS 11 feature demonstrated by Craig Federighi was a super convenient one: synchronized conversations across iCloud, iOS, and macOS. Messages is moving to iCloud, essentially. If you erase a message on your iPhone or iPad, that will now be reflected on your Mac as well. Previously, you’d often have to deal with notifications twice or delete old conversations again. Your conversations will be stored on iCloud, which will make them easier to retrieve on your future Apple devices but might also open potential privacy and government snooping concerns.
Apple Pay is also expanding to include person-to-person payments, positioning Apple to take on Venmo and Square Cash. iOS 11 will introduce a Apple Pay Cash Card, where users will store their received funds from peer-to-peer transactions. This money can be transferred to your personal bank account.
Apple has made improvements to Siri that make the assistant’s voice sound more natural when responding to users. Additionally, Siri will now be able to perform translations from English to Chinese, French, German, Italian, or Spanish.
Siri is also getting smarter about suggestions. It accomplishes this through what Federighi described as “on-device learning.” On-device learning is synced across your other Apple devices but "kept completely private, readable only by you and your devices." Apple says on-device learning lets Siri give suggestions “based on personal usage of Safari, News, Mail, Messages and more. For example, as Siri learns topics or places a user is interested in while browsing Safari, they will be suggested when typing in Mail, Messages and other apps.”
iOS 11 lets users take Portrait Mode images with optical image stabilization, with a flash, or in HDR. New Loop and Bounce effects can be applied to Live Photos, and Apple is using a High Efficiency Image File Format (HEIF) to shrink the amount of storage that photos take up on your iPhone.
In iOS 11, Apple has completely redesigned Control Center, which is the panel that users can swipe up to access frequent and important settings or change songs when listening to music.
The iPad is getting some special attention with iOS 11. Apple is making the iPad’s dock similar to the Mac’s by letting users add many more apps to it.
A new drag-and-drop feature lets you quickly move info or media from one split-screen app into the one beside it. Yes, that’s pretty basic stuff — but it shows exactly why Apple needed to make these iPad improvements in the first place. They were overdue. Drag and drop can also be used with apps on your home screen or dock.
Also, iOS 11 can now preserve app pairings for iPad when you’re switching between apps. It’s basically the equivalent of the Mac’s Spaces feature — but now on iPad. This means you can keep two apps you commonly use together when switching to another app, and easily return to them without having to set up the split-screen view again.
Apple will bring traditional file management — or at least something resembling it — to the iPad with iOS 11. A new Files app, leaked earlier on Monday morning, will give users a simple view of files on their device and also those stored with cloud services including iCloud, Dropbox, OneDrive, and more.
Apple Maps is introducing indoor maps for airports and shopping centers in select cities.
Mall layouts will be available for the following cities:  Boston, Chicago, Hong Kong, London, Los Angeles, New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, San Jose, Tokyo, and Washington, DC.
Apple has indoor maps for well over 20 major airports as well, including both US and international locations.
iOS 11 also adds new improvements to Maps when you’re behind the wheel of a car. Lane guidance and speed limits should help you navigate unfamiliar highways.
More important is a new safety measure: Do Not Disturb While Driving will get rid of potential distractions when your eyes should be focused on the road. Text messages won’t be shown by default, though senders have the option of replying with “urgent” in cases when you really need to see something.
Sonos has some huge competition on the way. Apple’s Craig Federighi said on stage that iOS 11 will introduce support for multi-room audio between iPhones, iPads, and a slew of third-party speakers.
Plus, Apple Music is adding a much needed social element, which will show you what friends are currently listening to on the service. Like Spotify, you’ve got the option of listening privately if you don’t want to let others in on your guilty pleasures.
The App Store is getting its biggest makeover ever in iOS 11. There’s a new “Today” tab that will surface notable releases, and Apple is finally giving the games section its own dedicated tab. There’s a much bigger editorial aspect to the store now, too, as users will find how-tos, “making of” stories, and other content that pertains to select apps. Other refinements include the ability for developers to directly list in-app purchases in the App Store — rather than making users hunt for them in the app.
Apple is building augmented reality directly into the core of iOS, giving developers the tools they need to convincingly blend digital entertainment with the real world.
Craig Federighi demonstrates ARKit on stage at #WWDC2017 https://t.co/FdzYreKeEM pic.twitter.com/USK5AHUkVI
Here’s the fun slide of other features coming to iOS 11 that didn’t get stage time. Standouts include screen recording, a one-handed keyboard, FaceTime Live Photos, password autofill in apps, and more.
iOS 10, unveiled at last year’s WWDC, focused on a major update to the Messages app, and also included redesigned Maps, Photos, Apple Music, and News apps. A new Home app for controlling HomeKit-compatible smart home gadgets was introduced, and Apple began its work to open Siri to software developers as part of iOS 10, as well.
According to Apple, iOS 11 will be available for iPhone 5s and later, all iPad Air and iPad Pro models, iPad fifth generation, iPad mini 2 and later, and iPod touch sixth generation. Some features — like person-to-person Apple Pay — require newer hardware.

Today, Apple announced a brand-new tier of its all-in-one desktop called the iMac Pro. The new product, unveiled onstage at the company’s Worldwide Developers Conference in San Jose, California, is supposed to be a “the most powerful Mac ever,” according to the company. In other words, this computer is going to replace the painfully outdated and woefully mismanaged Mac Pro line, at least for the foreseeable future. The iMac Pro will start shipping this December starting at $4,999, Apple confirmed.
Apple says the computer will ship with an 8-core Xeon processor, with configurations that scale up to an 18-core Xeon processor, 5K display, and an all-new AMD Radeon Vega GPU. You’ll also be able to shell out for up to 16GB of VRAM, up to 128GB of data corruption-protecting ECC RAM, and up to 4TB for SSD storage. There’s a whole bunch of other upgrades in there. Check out the full list Apple shared in its presentation below:
Everything else in the iMac Pro pic.twitter.com/wg5R3gURoP
Apple imagines this desktop being used for everything from high-end editing and graphics work to gaming and VR, with specs that could even support artificial intelligence research.

Apple has announced updates to its entire MacBook line at WWDC, giving its laptops more powerful specifications in the form of the latest Intel chips.
As had been previously rumored, last year’s MacBook Pros are getting Intel’s Kaby Lake processors, as is Apple’s 12-inch MacBook, which is also getting faster SSDs. Additionally, there’s a new configuration of the 13-inch MacBook Pro without a Touch Bar that starts at a cheaper $1,299, while the 15-inch model now has discrete graphics included standard. Otherwise, the MacBook remains unchanged, with the same screen, design, and ports.
Diving into the hardware specs, the MacBook now maxes out at up to a 1.3GHz Core i7 processor, the 13-inch MacBook Pro has up to a 3.5GHz Core i7, and the 15-inch MacBook Pro goes up to a 3.1GHz Core i7 processor.
Finally, the long-languishing MacBook Air is getting an update, albeit a minor one — Apple is giving the Air a desperately needed speed boost, now offering a faster 1.8GHz Intel processor — the company has yet to offer more details, aside from the speed boost — but that’s about it. The screen is still the same 1440 x 900 panel, the design remains unchanged, and there are no USB-C ports. It seems that the Air is sticking around as an entry-level budget model, even as Apple looks to push users to the MacBook and MacBook Pro.
Overall, the updates across the MacBook line show that Apple is committed to staying competitive in the laptop space, even if the spec boost fails to address larger problems with the products like Apple’s unwavering commitment to USB-C or the gimmicky Touch Bar. Still, given the huge amount of time that has historically gone between even spec boosts for some Apple products, like the iMac or Mac Pro, it’s nice to see that the company seems to be trying harder to keep things updated going forward.
The newly updated MacBook laptops will be available today.

Apple has announced updates to its iMac line at WWDC, giving its all-in-one desktop more powerful specifications and the latest Intel chips.
Apple is bringing Intel’s seventh-generation Kaby Lake processors to the new iMac, along with what Apple calls “the best Mac display ever,” offering 500 nits of brightness, or 43 percent brighter than the previous generation. The 21.5-inch model now can be configured up to 32GB of RAM, while the 27-inch goes up to 64GB, twice what had previously been offered. The new iMacs also are getting two Thunderbolt 3 USB-C ports, making it Apple’s first desktop computer to embrace the port standard.
Graphics cards are getting a spec boost in the updated iMacs, too. The entry-level 21.5-inch model will have an Intel Iris Plus 640 GPU, while the 4K 21.5-inch models will get Radeon Pro 555 and 560 graphics cards. Meanwhile, the 27-inch 5K model will have a choice of Radeon Pro 570, 575, and 580 graphics cards, topping out at 8GB of VRAM. (The top model Radeon Pro 580 is roughly equivalent to an Nvidia 1060.) Those new GPUs, along with updates in macOS High Sierra, also means that the new iMacs will support VR.
While the design of the iMac is mostly unchanged from the outside, it’s still a significant update, given that it’s been almost almost two years since Apple last updated the desktop line in October 2015. And it’s especially important, given that these new iMacs are pulling double duty as Apple’s primary desktop computer until it sorts out the situation with the Mac Pro sometime next year, although the newly announced iMac Pro slated for later this year should help with that.
The 21.5-inch iMac will start at $1,099 and the 4K 21.5-inch model at $1,299. The updated iMacs will be available later today.

Apple announced a new version of the operating system for its computers today called macOS High Sierra. No, seriously! It will be available as a developer beta today, in public beta later this month, and it will roll out to the public for free this fall.
"We talked to the guys and they said ‘this might be misconstrued,’ but they assured us this name is fully baked,” Apple’s senior vice president of software Craig Federighi joked onstage.
But the updated version of Apple’s macOS Sierra operating system promises to be faster, safer, and help applications use less space than ever. A big part of this will be Apple’s File System replacing the Hierarchical File System, which the company claims its own file system will be more safe and stable. It will also be much faster.
On the performance side, Safari’s JavaScript performance will be 80 percent faster than Chrome’s, according to Federighi. Safari on macOS High Sierra will also will also get some security upgrades. The browser will use machine learning to identify and block ad trackers as you navigate around the web, and will be capable of blocking autoplay videos. The Mail application, meanwhile, will take up 35 percent less space than it has in the past.
The Photos app is getting refreshed in High Sierra, too. Apple’s giving it an overhaul that takes what was mostly a photo management app with light-editing tools and turns it into something that’s much closer to a Photoshop experience. The company promises it will be easier to search through your images now, too.
Everything’s also going to look better on High Sierra. Apple announced a new version of Metal, its graphics technology, called Metal 2. A big advantage of the upgrade to Metal is that macOS will now be able to support VR — something Apple showed off by bringing Lucasfilm’s ILMXLAB onstage to demo a new Star Wars VR experience featuring Darth Vader.

Apple has just announced that watchOS 4, the next version of its smartwatch platform, will be arriving later this fall. It includes new features for watchfaces, such as complications updating based on time of day or location, and a new Siri-based watchface. The Siri watchface uses machine learning to determine what information is most useful to you at a given point in time. That information can include flight boarding passes, time of sunset, or smart home control.
In addition, Apple has developed a kaleidoscope watchface and new character faces to join the Mickey and Minnie Mouse options already available. The new characters include Woody, Jesse, and Buzz from the Toy Story movie franchise.
WatchOS 4 will also bring updates to the watch’s fitness tracking, including a new user interface for the workout app and new integrations with gym equipment manufacturers. This integration will provide information such as incline and intensity to the Watch for more accurate workout tracking. Apple says Watch wearers will be able to link their devices with the gym equipment through NFC.
Music management is also improved for watchOS 4; the Watch will automatically import Apple Music playlists and can support multiple playlists. Apple has also redesigned the dock with a vertical interface for scrolling through recent apps.
Overall, the updates that Apple has shown off so far are not nearly as dramatic of a change as watchOS 3 was, but will pinpoint specific areas to improve the user experience. Developers will be able to access a preview version of watchOS 4 starting today, while a public release will be available this fall.

The rumors were true: Amazon’s video app is finally coming to Apple’s TV streaming box. Today at WWDC, it was announced that Amazon Prime Video will soon be available for Apple TV. The app will let users stream original hits like Transparent, Bosch, Mozart in the Jungle, Catastrophe, and more. Apple CEO Tim Cook said that Amazon Video for Apple TV will be released “later this year.”
That’s also when Apple plans to release more details about what’s next for tvOS; the Amazon announcement was the platform’s only mention on stage today. That’s an unusual departure, as Apple usually reveals at least a few new tvOS software features at its developer conference. In its own tweet announcing the news, Amazon said that it plans to integrate with the TV app on Apple TV.
You asked (a lot). We listened. Amazon Prime Video is coming to the TV App and all Apple TVs this year.
Prime Video’s arrival on Apple TV signals the end of a years-long squabble between Apple and Amazon. Jeff Bezos has previously said that the two sides couldn’t find “acceptable business terms” for Amazon to put a video app on Apple’s living room device. Amazon stopped selling the Apple TV in 2015 because of its lack of any Prime Video app and convenient access to the company’s content. Amazon has not yet revealed whether the Apple TV will return to its online store as a result of this deal. Recode reported last month that Apple and Amazon were nearing a deal, with BuzzFeed News later confirming that one had been reached.

In late 2016, the focus of Sony’s PlayStation division was on hardware. During a span of around 60 days, the company launched three new devices: a slimmer base PS4, the more powerful PS4 Pro, and the PlayStation VR headset. The surge appears to have been largely a success; the PSVR has topped 1 million units sold, while Sony says the PS4 is “close to” hitting the 60 million mark.
The question mark is the PS4 Pro. The company isn’t releasing specific sales data for the upgraded hardware, but it says that since the debut in November, one in five new PS4s sold has been the Pro model. (Sony says the actual number “runs into the millions.”) Nonetheless, Sony is committed to the Pro and the shift its added power represents.
“We see 4K as being the next HD,” says Shawn Layden, president and CEO of Sony Interactive Entertainment America, “and PlayStation 4 Pro is our answer to that opportunity.”
For many consumers, some confusion remains around the PS4 Pro. While the hardware features an enhanced GPU and the ability to play games and other media in 4K, it’s not always clear which games or developers are actually supporting the device, or what features are only available on the pricier console.
When Prey launched on May 8th, for instance, it purportedly supported PS4 Pro. But it wasn’t until last week that a patch was released, adding in a large number of Pro-specific improvements.
In comparison to Microsoft’s upcoming Project Scorpio — which the company says will offer 4K support and performance improvements for all Xbox One games — the advantages of upgrading to PS4 Pro aren’t as immediately clear.
According to Jim Ryan, president and CEO and Sony Interactive Entertainment Europe, the responsibility to support the hardware lies with game developers. That is to say, each developer must spend time and resources to tweak and patch their games to take advantage of the PS4’s added power.
“It’s one of those things where we very much leave it to the content creator to make what they will of the power of the machine,” he says. “I think the proof of the pudding is in the tasting; when you look at something like Horizon Zero Dawn, which is just gorgeous on PS4 Pro, you can see firsthand what the device delivers. Now there are other games where the benefits of Pro are less apparent, and frankly in some cases less necessary. So it’s down to the individual developer.”
Project Scorpio is expected to launch later this year, but at Microsoft’s E3 Keynote on June 11th the company will be revealing more details about the console. According to Ryan, the relative mystery around Scorpio, along with PS4 Pro’s one-year head start, has been advantageous for Sony. “We were able to get out and lay out our agenda before anybody else,” he says. “We don’t know yet when Microsoft will come with Scorpio, there’s much that’s yet to be known about that product. We don’t know the date, we don’t know the price, we don’t know the quantities. So we’re able to get out there and do our thing, and we’re very happy about that.”
The entire concept of mid-cycle upgrades like PS4 Pro and Project Scorpio — consoles that are more powerful than their predecessors, but not an entirely new generation of hardware — is still largely unproven territory, and recent studies suggest that a majority of consumers are unaware of the new devices and the advantages they offer.
Historically, raw power has had little impact on the success of a console; just look at the meteoric sales of the original Wii compared to the more powerful PS3 and Xbox 360. That said, Ryan believes updates like the PS4 Pro will help Sony appeal to early adopters and those consumers who don’t even know what a PS4 Pro is.
“For us, it’s about trying to strike a balance between having a platform have a certain lifespan that will allow developers to become familiar, and to exploit the platform, but at the same time, to allow those who wish to upgrade mid-cycle to have something that’s new and shiny and more powerful,” he says. “I think we’ve struck really an elegant balance between those two factors.”
Sony has now sold more than 1 million PlayStation VR headsets, the company announced today. The news follows a reveal back in February that the PSVR had topped 915,000 units sold since its debut last October. It puts PSVR ahead of direct competitors like the HTC Vive and Oculus Rift — according to research firm SuperData, the two sold 420,000 and 243,000 units respectively by the end of 2016 — but still well back of Samsung’s Gear VR, which has sold more than 5 million units globally. Shawn Layden, president and CEO of Sony Interactive Entertainment America, admits there’s still plenty of work to be done, especially given the large install base of PS4 owners, which is approaching 60 million. “It’s still just a million units,” he says.
Layden expects sales to pick up this year in large part because of availability. “We’ll have freer supply in the marketplace,” he says of 2017. “We got to a point around Christmas where you would be hard-pressed to find VR anywhere. So we dialed back some of our promotional activity at that time because we didn’t want to be promoting a platform for people to find out they couldn’t get it. I didn’t want to create more unhappy customers.”
Software will be a big focus. When PSVR launched, it was released alongside a surprisingly robust lineup of virtual reality experiences, including well-received titles like Thumper and Rez Infinite. Since then, however, the release schedule has died down significantly, with few notable highlights outside of the VR mode for Resident Evil 7.
Last month, however, saw the release of sci-fi shooter Farpoint and the Aim Controller peripheral, which Layden believes is the start of a “second wave” of games hitting the platform. “When a new console or a new platform launches, there’s a lot of activity driving launch day,” he says. “And then there’s the inevitable lull between that and the next launch of titles. I think we’re seeing that happening now. Farpoint is the lead of that, and we’ll be talking about a number of other titles at E3.” According to Sony, PSVR owners have purchased 5.25 million VR games to date, and play an average of 25 minutes per session.
Outside of games, Sony is also looking to expand the platform with different types of experiences. To that end, Sony Pictures is bringing an upcoming experience based on Breaking Bad to PSVR, which will be helmed by the show’s creator Vince Gilligan. “For PSVR, we came to it from a gaming context,” Layden says. “But we knew at the time when we were developing it that a lot of people will have interest in this.”
One big question that remains is the life cycle of a platform like PSVR. New consoles come out on average around every 5 to 6 years, while smartphones are often refreshed on an annual basis. It’s not clear yet where virtual reality hardware like PSVR fits on that spectrum.
“With VR, it’s a totally brave new world,” says Layden. “We’re still trying to understand exactly what people are going to want to do in that medium. It’s hard to make predictions about it. People will want it to be smaller, lighter, wireless — these are all things we’re looking at from a conventional iteration process. But I don’t presume to be able to tell you what VR is going to look like in the year 2018 or 2019. We’re going to find out together as we go along.”
Facial recognition systems have made huge technological leaps in recent years — offering definitive identification in seconds, from as far as 350 meters away — but there’s one scenario where they still fall short: the car. Modern systems still struggle to identify faces through glass, particularly the slanted windshield of an automobile. Current systems at land borders in Hong Kong perform facial recognition through rolled-down windows, simply to avoid the confounding effect of the glass.
But over the past few months, a new system has emerged to solve that problem, developed at Oak Ridge National Laboratory at the request of US Customs and Border Patrol. Still largely secret, the system draws on light-field sensor arrays to mitigate the glass barrier, allowing cameras to focus past the reflections on the windshield to the faces of the drivers and passengers. If effective, it could pave the way for far more aggressive deployment of facial recognition at automotive crossings.
The system arose out of an initiative called biometric exit, which mandates a face or fingerprint verification of every US visitor as they exit the country. At airports, that has meant a massive push for facial recognition cameras at departure gates and elsewhere — but land borders present unique challenges. Most land visitors arrive in cars, and windshields make it difficult to reliably capture facial images. According to a GAO report released in February, the available technologies “would require all passengers to stop and exit their vehicle to be photographed or scanned.” The result would create unworkable delays at some of America’s busiest crossing points, particularly at the Mexican border.
In June, Customs reached out to Oak Ridge National Laboratory for a solution, and recent statements indicate that they’ve found one. The lab still hasn’t publicly discussed its findings (a representative declined to comment for this piece), but at a conference in April, CBP executive director Colleen Manaher said the lab had made progress with a system called a plenoptic camera.
“The camera they have developed can go into a vehicle through tint and glare,” Manaher told the crowd. “I’m looking at it through the naked eye and I can’t see in, but there on that screen are two people, the passenger and the driver, in facial recognition quality.” The camera is still in the prototype phase, but for Manaher and others at Customs, it presents a unique chance to break the technological stalemate.
The biggest problem for in-car facial recognition is the glass barrier, which adds reflections that confuse many algorithms, and also cuts down on the total amount of available light. The details of Oak Ridge’s plenoptic camera are still largely undisclosed, but the general technology could address both problems. Also called light-field cameras, plenoptic systems use an array of sensors to capture as much light information as possible, far more than would be necessary to construct a single static photograph. That means more light overall, but also enough information to perceive depth, a crucial element in distinguishing glass reflections from the features of the face behind it.
Got a tip for us? Use SecureDrop or Signal to securely send messages and files to The Verge without revealing your identity.
While the technology is relatively new to government agencies, it’s been available to consumers for years. The Lytro camera, first released in 2012, uses a similar system to let consumers tweak the focus and perspective of a photo in post-processing. Colvin Pitts, a senior architect at Lytro, says the camera’s depth-sensing capability could be particularly useful when cleaning up an image for facial recognition. “Because it lets you separate objects in space, you can imagine focusing one image on the tinted windshield and another image where you expect the driver to be,” Pitts says. “With some clever image processing, you could remove some portion of what you get from the windshield.”
It’s still unclear how reliable those techniques would be in the field, and Pitts cautioned that showing early success might be easier than developing a reliable system. “Solving some of the cases is a lot easier than solving all of the cases,” he told The Verge. That’s consistent with Manaher’s early assessment, which described the system as “very prototypey.”
As the technology develops, it could enable ambitious new facial recognition projects, particularly when combined with automatic license plate recognition or ALPR technology. Last Year, New York governor Andrew Cuomo announced a plan called New York Crossings that would install facial recognition cameras alongside ALPR systems at every bridge and tunnel leading into Manhattan, although experts say there are still significant logistical challenges to such a system. If implemented, New York Crossings would give officials identifying information on hundreds of thousands of individuals as they enter and exit New York City, the vast majority of which would not be suspected of any crime.
While it may be years before the systems are deployed, the issue is already raising privacy concerns. Clare Garvie, an associate at Georgetown Law’s Center on Privacy and Technology, says on-road systems like New York Crossings raise serious user consent issues. “It doesn’t matter how much notice is given the the public in advance,” Garvie says. “If these cameras are installed on gantries over main arteries, there is very little practical way to opt out of this system.”
National insurer AAA is raising its prices for Tesla’s Model S and Model X, citing higher-than-average claim rates and repair costs for the two cars. According to a report from Automotive News, AAA said it could raise its premiums by as much as 30 percent for the vehicles. Other large insurers including State Farm and Geico told the publication they couldn’t say whether or not they would also increase prices, but noted that data about claim frequency is always used to calculate insurance premiums.
Tesla itself disputes the move, saying the AAA has made its decision based on faulty information from the Highway Loss Data Institute. A spokesperson for Tesla told Automotive News: “This analysis is severely flawed and is not reflective of reality.”
The crux of the matter is whether or not Tesla’s cars have a higher-than-average claim rate for crashes and collisions. Usually, these averages are calculated by comparing the number of claims with similar cars. In this case, the Model S and Model X are categorized as “large luxury vehicles” — a class that also includes the BMW 5 series, Mercedes-Benz E class, Audi A6, and Volvo XC70. But, Tesla says, it’s “false and misleading” to compare the Model S and X to the likes of a Volvo station wagon, pointing out that its cars have faster acceleration rates and better passenger safety.
In general, says the Highway Loss Data Institute, luxury vehicles are more expensive to insure because they’re involved in more collisions than other cars (13 percent more) and cost more to repair (about 50 percent more). But Tesla’s vehicles stand out even among this crowd, says the HLDI, with Model X owners filing insurance claims 41 precent more than average, and with these claims costing 89 percent more than average to fix.
“Teslas get into a lot of crashes and are costly to repair afterward,” Russ Rader of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety told Automotive News. “Consumers will pay for that when they go to insure one."
WWDC 2017 is finally here, and it’s almost time to see what Apple has in store for this year, with everything from a new version of iOS to brand-new hardware possibly making an appearance.
Google and Microsoft had their turns in the past few weeks to show their visions of the future of computing, and now it’s Apple’s turn. As has become tradition, Apple CEO Tim Cook will take the stage to kick off the conference with a keynote that will highlight what the Cupertino company has planned for your Apple hardware and software.
Related
On the software side of things, we expect to get our first look at iOS 11 and macOS 10.13, along with whatever California locale Apple decides to dub the latest version of desktop OS, as well as the annual updates to the tvOS and watchOS platforms. While the rumor mill has been quieter than usual when it comes to Apple’s software revisions this year, the word is that there might be an updated user interface in store for the iPhone, along with some more minor updates to Apple’s other operating systems. Of course, all eyes will be on Siri this year. As Amazon, Google, and even Microsoft are focusing attention on their own AI assistants, Apple is in danger of falling behind.
That brings us right to the hardware side of the rumors, which are centered on the introduction of a new “Siri speaker” that would bring Apple’s digital assistant on a level playing field with devices like the Amazon Echo or Google Home. There are conflicting reports as to what the device would actually look like, but if Apple can bring itself to open up Siri to developers like it has for watchOS or tvOS, it could be a powerful platform connecting the various components of Apple’s ecosystem together.
Along with a smart speaker, we could see some spec-bumped MacBooks, and maybe a new screen size for the iPad Pro. Plus, astute observers have noted that June 2017 is the actual 10th anniversary of the original iPhone launch... and while new phones this early in the year seem highly unlikely, anything could happen.
As always, The Verge will be on the ground in San Jose to bring you all the latest news as it happens. Here’s how you can follow along:
Starting time: San Francisco: 10AM / New York: 1PM / London: 6PM / Berlin: 7PM / Moscow: 8PM / Beijing: 1AM (June 6th) / Tokyo: 2AM (June 6th) / Sydney: 3AM (June 6th).
Live blog: Tune into The Verge live blog for up-to-the-second updates, commentary, and pictures directly from the venue, or follow below.

Keynote live stream: Apple’s live stream is available on the company's own website, though it requires either Safari or Microsoft Edge on the desktop.
Live tweeting: Follow @verge on Twitter for the latest headlines and details as they emerge.

It’s been more than 20 years since Microsoft used the Workstation branding in its Windows 4.0 Workstation edition, but it appears the company is ready to bring it back. Twitter users @AndItsTito and @GrandMofongo have discovered references to a new edition of Windows 10 in a build Microsoft accidentally released to testers last week. Described as “Windows 10 Pro for Advanced PCs,” the new version appears to cater for significant hardware demands.
In a leaked slide, Microsoft describes the edition as “Windows 10 Pro for Workstation” with four main capabilities:
Microsoft is clearly targeting this new edition of Windows 10 to power users who are processing mass amounts of data each day. This will likely be used mostly in enterprise scenarios, and the software giant appears to still be working on the exact feature set and naming.
Apple’s big Worldwide Developers Conference keynote kicks off in just over 10 hours, and the company itself may have let slip a major piece of news. As spotted by developer Steve Troughton-Smith, the iOS App Store currently has a placeholder listing for an Apple-developed app called Files. The listing doesn’t have many details, but the app apparently requires the as-yet unannounced iOS 11 and its icon is unmistakably that of a macOS-style folder.
The obvious reading here is that Apple is overhauling iOS’s approach to file management. Ever since the original iPhone was released in 2007, Apple’s mobile devices have abstracted away files wherever possible, leaving the handling of documents to individual apps and cloud services.
Related
The current iCloud Drive app gives some semblance of a file structure, but the files themselves have to be stored on iCloud, whereas Android allows for traditional on-device file management and integration with various cloud storage providers. Apple is widely expected to make improvements to iPad productivity in particular this year, and iOS file management is certainly an area with room for improvement.
We’ll have to wait a little longer for the WWDC keynote to find out exactly how far Apple plans to go. But it might not necessarily be a huge philosophical reversal for the company — Steve Jobs told Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher in 2005 that “eventually, the file system management is just going to be an app for pros and consumers aren’t going need to use it.”
Just a few months after being edged out of Facebook, Oculus founder Palmer Luckey has a new startup, in a new industry — defense. The New York Times reports that Luckey is working on surveillance technology designed to be used at national borders and at military bases, using a variety of sensors to watch for people crossing between countries or into restricted areas illegally.
In pitching the technology, Luckey has reportedly secured meetings with key White House representatives, including Trump right-hand man Steve Bannon. He could also secure funding for the venture, with PayPal founder Peter Thiel apparently mulling investment through his Founder’s Fund company.
The planned system uses LIDAR and infrared sensors, as well as regular cameras, to monitor perimeter areas. People familiar with the technology say that it will be able to distinguish between moving targets through specialized software — identifying the difference between humans or coyotes, for example — and even detect drones flying in the vicinity.
Luckey outlined his plans in an email to the NYT, saying that while governments were spending more than ever on defense, innovation had been slowing down. “We need a new kind of defense company, one that will save taxpayer dollars while creating superior technology to keep our troops and citizens safer,” he said. His proposed surveillance system could be mounted on poles — a solution that Luckey reportedly sees as a cheaper and easier way to restrict the US-Mexico border than Trump’s oft-mentioned wall.
To that end, Luckey has apparently started canvassing the current US administration to sell them on his surveillance idea. The New York Times says that he has spoken with the president’s chief strategist, Steve Bannon, about using similar technology to monitor the country’s southern border. Gizmodo first reported news of another meeting, held in the White House in April, between Luckey and Ryan Zinke, the secretary of the interior. A spokesperson for Zinke said there had been no action from the meeting, but confirmed that Luckey had been pitching the secretary on border control technology.
The first investment for the new company could come from another Trump ally — Peter Thiel. Both Luckey and Thiel (who hit headlines last year for bankrolling Hulk Hogan’s lawsuit in a bid to bring down Gawker), have distinguished themselves over the past few years as some of the few big Silicon Valley figures willing to publicly support Republican candidates and politics. Thiel donated $1.25 million to Donald Trump’s election campaign late in the cycle, before stepping into a role in the president-elect’s transition team.
While Luckey previously denied being a Trump supporter, it was revealed that he donated thousands of dollars to an organization devoted to attacking Hillary Clinton with memes during the presidential campaigns. Earlier this year, Luckey also donated $100,000 to Trump’s inaugural celebrations, hiding the cash behind shell corporations named after SNES video game Chrono Trigger. These actions have been seen as contributing factors to his departure from Facebook, where he had retained a role after Oculus was bought out for $2 billion in 2014.
Previously an outsized personality, online and at a string of industry events, Luckey had effected a policy of radio silence during his latter days at Facebook, but his departure marked a renewed public presence. He was pictured in a bikini during a VR convention in Japan, cosplaying as Metal Gear Solid V character Quiet, but also showed a willingness to return to politics, holding a fundraiser for Texas senator and failed Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz.
That fundraiser could be an indication of Luckey’s politics, or simply his business nous, with Cruz as one of the loudest proponents for border security. Luckey’s new venture might not be as thrilling to the average consumer as Oculus was, but with people like Cruz in positions of power in the current White House, it may have an easier time finding a lucrative market.
In a thread on Reddit, three alleged Foxconn employees have posted information about some of Apple’s upcoming products, such as the iPhone 7S and iPhone 8, the rumored Siri Speaker, smart glasses, and more, just days before the company is set to start WWDC on Monday.
According to the subreddit’s moderators, the identities of the posters have been verified with proper documentation and evidence, but it’s not clear how trustworthy the information is. AppleInsider notes that there’s some basis to take this information with a grain of salt, and the mods noted that they’re only able to verify that the users in question would have access to this information.
Here’s an overview of what they revealed, and we’ll see tomorrow how accurate it is.
One of the more interesting sets of details was about Apple’s rumored augmented reality Glasses. Reports of the devices surfaced last fall, and Apple CEO Tim Cook recently noted that the company has invested in AR.
According to Foxconninsider, the project is called Project Mirrorshades (a reference to a 1980s Cyberpunk anthology?), which would be designed to bring AR to a larger audience.
The glasses consist of a “Kopin NED Acetate frame, Polarisized or prescription lens with Zeiss smart optics, Bone induction modules Microphones (noise cancellation), Light sensor Accelerometer for step tracking and head movement, app navigation Magnetometer for navigation, Capacitive Pavel Ceramic battery, Apple chipset, [and] Charging circuit BL5 Induction module.” They also reportedly came in crystal, champagne, and black colors.
Movement would play some role in the function of the glasses: Foxconninsider noted that for an app like Tinder, a user could shake their head for no, or nod for yes. A “small capacitive strip on” the arm would allow users to accept calls and control the volume, while Siri could also be used to make calls. The device would use a prism that “conveys NED display image to lens,” and would have 428 x 240 resolution.
The insiders noted that they only saw a “transparent reader lens but I understand they can procure polarised or prescription lenses,” that the frames were “Cellulose acetate Injection mold frames into an aluminum mold,” that they came in two sizes (men’s and women’s), and that they had a P3 frame design. There was also the possibility that there would be seasonal design updates. The materials cost for the devices would be around $150, which Foxconninsider noted would likely place the retail price in the $600.
It’s not clear if Mirrorshades will go forward, however. Foxconninsider explained that while they were a “unique design,” there was a 65 percent chance that the entire project would be canceled because the batteries are difficult to produce.
Foxconninsider referred to the overhauled iPhone as the iPhone X, and that production has been delayed, which is in line with some rumors that have surfaced recently. The user noted that some of the leaked designs weren’t accurate, and explained that the new version looked “more like an iPhone 7 with glass and without the AuthenTec's capacitive touch module.” When asked which leaked image it looked like the most, they said that the middle one was the most accurate. The rear camera has been reoriented, and the bezel on the phone will be thinner on the Y-axis.
They also reported that they saw some “test units with fingerprint scanners mounted below the glass, but performance and yield rates were not good.” They explained that they haven’t seen a rumored rear fingerprint scanner, speculating that it might have been misinformation. The phone will apparently also use facial detection and a retina scanner, which will be “included in the front facing camera modules.”
They detailed some other tidbits about the overhauled model: it would come with 3GB RAM, and it won’t have an aluminum unibody, but instead will have a “composite glass to allow wireless charging,” with a rear panel. They also noted that the new iPhone will be “water resistant” (a feature already shared by the iPhone 7), and that they won’t use USB-C.
The user spoke a bit about an previously rumored iPhone 7 refresh: noting that it’ll have an aluminum unibody instead of a glass chassis, and that it won’t have wireless charging.
Apple is thought to be revealing its Siri-powered home device tomorrow, and Foxconninsider had some details about the device. They described the device as having a similar shape to that of the Mac Pro, but smaller, but also cautioned that they hadn’t seen it in a while. They did note that they tested three designs: “one design without camera, without screen.” (The third presumably has both.) The device would also come with a “modified A9 chip.”
They predicted that it would be announced soon, but that it wouldn’t come out until later this year.
Apple is reportedly updating its entire MacBook lineup this year, with a new MacBook Pro, a more powerful version of the 12-inch MacBook, and an updated 13-inch MacBook Air. (Foxconninsider noted in the thread that the MacBook Air was being discontinued, so we’ll see.) They noted that they tested some updated MacBook designs, which included “more glass and dark black body,” as well as a reintroduction of white apple light that was discontinued in 2015. When asked if it would be similar to the Thunderbolt Display, they agreed: “Somewhat; similar to the black iPhone 7 and the iPhone X finish (like iPhone 4).”
They also said that the discontinued MagSafe would return in “12-18 months.” When asked if the MacBook Pros would get 3D / Force Touch, they noted that aside from the Touch Bar, no laptops in the 18-month range will have any sort of touch display.
The iMac will reportedly get an SOC and incremental updates, and a full redesign (with smart keys, which will join the Touch Bar, rather than replace it). It is being delayed until next year.
When asked about the keyboards, they noted that they tested “two e-paper technologies; E-ink in black and white and color, other a color Qualcomm display (cancelled due to IP dispute).” They also noted that the keys would be low profile.
They also noted that they don’t have access to the iPads, but did confirm a rumored third iPad size.
Foxconninsider noted that contrary to rumors, Apple is sticking with its lightning cable. When asked about TV panels, they also said that there’ll be some information coming later this year about the Apple TV.
They also spoke a little about some of the projects that have been canceled over the years, listing several: “IoT devices like fitness band, headphone designs, larger keyboard with backlighting etc.”
The thread details a number of specific updates and details about Apple’s next line of products, some of which fit with the rumors that have come in recent months. However, it’s worth noting that it’s not clear how accurate all of these leaks will be, given that the users themselves noted that they haven’t seen some of the devices in a while. We’ll find out tomorrow.
Summer is fast approaching, and with it comes a wave of articles claiming sunscreen is toxic and bad for your health. But is it?
As anyone who has ever gotten a sunburn can attest — sun damage is real. But you can protect yourself! However, the intimidating ingredients list found on most sunscreens may leave you anxious about all those chemicals. The Verge spoke to David Leffell, a professor of dermatology and surgery at the Yale School of Medicine, to put our sunscreen fears to rest.
Along with Batman and Superman, Wonder Woman is a pillar of what’s known among fans as the DC Trinity. At 75 years old, she’s one of the oldest and most enduring of all superheroes, but where her counterparts have been featured in numerous TV shows and movies, Diana of Themyscira hasn’t ever been as lucky. Up until this weekend’s Wonder Woman, she’s only appeared solo in one successful TV series, one failed TV movie, and one direct-to-video animated film. As a matter of fact, as Polygon’s Susana Polo noted, the first major theatrical release Wonder Woman was even in was 2014’s The Lego Movie.
It all goes to show how studios, thanks to a whole lot of laziness, have struggled to figure out what to do with Wonder Woman on-screen. These days, you can watch Diana be amazing on shows like Justice League and Young Justice. But there were so many missteps along the way.
Take the unaired pilot for 1967’s Who’s Afraid of Diana Prince?. At the time, William Dozier, the executive producer and narrator for the ‘60s Batman series, commissioned a script for a Wonder Woman pilot. The end result was a show that had Diana (played by Ellie Wood Walker) defending the world, all while her mother complained about her being a spinster in the making. It’s goofy and more than a little cringe-worthy (presumably because the writers brought their style over from the Batman series), and it makes all the sense in the world why it didn’t air.
Fifty years later, Wonder Woman is a thousand steps up from Who’s Afraid of Diana Prince?. Diana’s funny and strong, and so is her mother. And at no point is anyone worried about picking up groceries. Keep that in mind if you head to the theater today.
This morning, British prime minister Theresa May spoke to the need for new regulations on the internet to combat extremism, following last night’s terror attack in London.
Yesterday evening, three attackers used a van to ram pedestrians on London Bridge, and proceeded to drive to Borough Market, where they attacked civilians with knives. The attacks left seven people dead and 48 injured in the span of eight minutes before the three attackers were killed by police.
“We cannot allow this ideology the safe space it needs to breed,” May said outside of 10 Downing Street this morning, “yet that is precisely what the internet, and the big companies that provide internet-based services provide.” She went on to say the UK needed undertake new efforts at home, and reach new international agreements with other countries to help “deprive the extremists of their safe spaces online.”
May announced that the attackers were Islamist extremists, but that British authorities haven’t found a common link between last night’s attackers, and the perpetrators behind the attacks at Westminster Bridge in March, and the concert bombing in May. She characterized the incident as a “new trend in the threat we face,” in that attackers are copying the methods of similar attacks. Vox points out that this puts the UK in a “counterterrorism nightmare,” because the attacks are not only difficult to prevent, but because it’s also almost nearly impossible to disrupt the flow of information about the attacks, especially if the attackers aren’t directly linked to one another.
This isn’t the first time that May has made calls to regulate internet behavior. In 2012, then-Home Secretary May drafted a bill that would force internet service providers to retain user data for up to a year. That bill was blocked, but she worked to introduce similar legislation in subsequent years. Last month, her Conservative Party included its intent to enact internet regulations that are designed to combat online extremism and to protect the public from abusive and offensive materials.
Companies such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Microsoft have ramped up their efforts to combat hate speech online, according to a European commission, although many are still lagging behind their stated commitments. Last month, the European Council approved a set of proposals that will require such companies to block videos containing hate speech and extremist recruiting efforts, while Germany is considering even stiffer penalties for companies that fail to remove hate speech.
After changing hands five times since it was founded in 2003, social bookmarking site Delicious has reached its end. Last week, rival company Pinboard announced that it had acquired the beleaguered site, and that it would be shutting it down as of June 15th.
For a couple of years, Delicious was one of those sites that internet users relied on. Designed to store and share bookmarks, it allowed them to build up a collection of bookmarks that they could access from anywhere. Following its acquisition, Delicious will become a read-only site on June 15th: users won’t be able to save any new bookmarks to the site. The site won’t go away completely: users will still be able to use the site to access their collections. Pinboard owner Maciej Cegłowsk encouraged users to migrate their accounts to his site, and noted that a disabled export feature will be reactivated if users want to go elsewhere.
In the release, Cegłowski explains that he purchased the site (reportedly for a measly $35 thousand) because it was a piece of internet history, and because he didn’t want it to “disappear from the web.” He capped off the announcement by saying “Do not attempt to compete with Pinboard.”
While the site’s heyday has long since passed, Delicious’ influence will linger: it helped to establish social bookmarking in the earlier days of the web, features which have since been incorporated into a number of other sites, such as Pinboard, Pocket, and Pinterest.
My Instagram group chat with my two best friends was popping off this week. “Lmao at Chris liking this,” my friend Colin said to me. I opened the DM to find a photo @emrata, or model Emily Ratajkowski, had posted of herself on a boat with her butt looking good. See above for the post. Apparently Colin was going through @emrata’s feed, and because Instagram lists which of your friends has liked a photo, he saw my boyfriend Chris’ handle.
My immediate reaction wasn’t so much anger as it was confusion and dismay. Why did he like this photo? Is he so un-evolved that he can’t resist the allure of a butt pic? Obviously he liked the photo because he liked what he saw; I understand that, but I still don’t get it. It’s not like I’m afraid he’s going to leave me for @emrata, yet something about the action of his liking turns me off. At the core of my disdain, I think, is the fact that he likes models’ Instagram posts at all. Why like any celebrity’s photo? It’s not like @emrata saw his like and received a boost of serotonin from it. She wasn’t waiting around for him to see the photo, and probably isn’t even the one running her own Instagram. The same goes for all the Kardashians, Beyoncé, Selena Gomez, and Drake. Liking one of their pics is just sending a like into the void solely to boost their numbers.

A post shared by Emily Ratajkowski (@emrata) on May 17, 2017 at 4:50am PDT
I never like celebrities’ posts, other than Ina Garten. I save likes for people I know IRL and who I figure would derive joy out of the fact that I liked their photo. Celebrities don’t need me to acknowledge them, so I don’t. I might bookmark a photo, screenshot it, or send it to my friends to talk about, but I’ll never like. I recognize I might be alone in this behavior, so I polled my colleagues on their thoughts about liking celebrity Instagrams and to posit theories on why my boyfriend liked @emrata’s booty pic.
Kaitlyn: I like celebrity Instagram posts all the time. I liked the Beyoncé pregnancy announcement, just like 11 million other people (as of this writing). I like all of Sophie Turner’s posts, and all of the posts by the guy who plays Archie on Riverdale. I especially enjoy liking posts from Sarah Jessica Parker, whose Instagram is an extremely alluring mix of Amtrak hot dogs, piles of street garbage, and designer shoes. I like posts from Chance the Rapper because Instagram often informs me that my 18-year-old sister has already liked them, and that makes me smile. I like Kim Kardashian’s posts once in a while if North is in them because, my god, she is just the cutest. No offense but I don’t feel like I should have to explain my reasoning, as there really isn’t any and I’m not hurting anyone. Relax!
That said, your boyfriend liking this pic is a little weird, but mostly because he’s a boy. I don’t feel it’s too controversial for me to say that the rules of “Instagram creeping” are slightly different for me, a girl.
We would like to share our love and happiness. We have been blessed two times over. We are incredibly grateful  that our family will be growing by two, and we thank you for your well wishes. - The Carters
A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Feb 1, 2017 at 10:39am PST
Megan: I am a chronic “never a follower, never a liker” of celebrities and that weird group of people that I guess fall under the “influencer” brand. I follow two New York-based models on Instagram, mostly because I like to imagine what my life would be like if I had money. Also, they post pictures of really good outfits. I say I could re-create those looks, but that’s a sweet lie I allow myself. My fashion sense is stripping entire outfits off mannequins at the mall.
I’m the wackadoo who will turn on private browsing to go stalk the accounts of celebrities (or even just like, CW show stars that I find hot, but would never admit to paying attention to). Like, dang, I’m all up in Nina Dobrev and KJ Apa’s feeds from time to time, trying to figure out who’s pals with who from their respective shows IRL. I also like to ponder how I, too, can get my teeth to shine so white that they may blind prospective mates. But, to paraphrase the 1997 classic film Titanic, a woman’s social habits are a deep ocean of secrets. These lil creeps are just for me.
Chris, I’m afraid, does not appear to be an ocean. I would dub him lake / 10, a scoring system that equates to, “well, that is a nice butt pic.”
Perfect way to end a day of work!  Dumb bell swing / burpees  1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,9,8,7,6,5,4,3,2,1 reps Eg. 1 DB swing 1 burpee, 2 DB swing 2 burpees and so on and so on to 10 then back down again. Such a sick workout, perfect if you are running low on time but still really want to smash yourself. 10/15 mins! Thanks to the uso @joenaufahu for this one
A post shared by KJ Apa (@kjapa) on May 28, 2017 at 11:20am PDT
Michael: I don’t follow many celebrities — Drake, Rihanna, and that’s about it. I don’t think I’ve ever liked any of their posts. I guess in my head, a like is a discrete message from the viewer to the poster that says, “I like what you did here,” or “Damn, WTF is that?” or “This is chill,” or “Wish I was there,” or “Yes, your dog is cute” — whatever it is.
What’s the point of sending a message if the person on the receiving end won’t see it — or couldn’t care less? Maybe you’ve developed a double tap reflex when you see something that pleases you. Maybe it’s performative — you’re trying to send a message to friends who follow the same celebrity that you, too, liked that celebrity’s photo. Honestly, I have no clue.
I don’t know why your boyfriend liked @emrata’s post. Maybe he’s hoping that @emrata will receive his message, which, in this case, probably translated to “this is chill.” If so, he’s delusional.

A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on May 2, 2017 at 3:07pm PDT
Lizzie: I would say the majority of the people I follow on Instagram are beautiful strangers who get Nikes sent to them for free, and I’ve never dropped a like on any of their posts. I’ll admit I’m pretty stingy with my likes in general, despite feeling an obligation to heart all of my friends’ posts. If I don’t give my dear friend Tara a like on her Icelandic vacation pic, why would I give one to a random streetwear model whom I follow for inspiration and envy?
Additionally, most of my follows are probably mid-tier Instagram celebrities — I’d guess they earn a decent amount of money just by looking cool in cool places, but they probably don’t get recognized when they go to the drug store. To me, this means that they’re still pretty normal people, and I don’t wanna look like a freak for liking pics of their bootleg designer logo T-shirts before I go to bed.
As for why Chris liked Emily Ratajkowski’s photo... maybe they’re cousins?
Nuh Shake Nuh Break
A post shared by champagnepapi (@champagnepapi) on May 21, 2017 at 11:07pm PDT
Paul: I'm really curious myself about what a like even means. Is it a Facebook poke? A personal declaration of liking something? A bookmark? A sharing action? It's easier for me to understand someone commenting on an Instagram post, even if they're lost in a sea of voices, because I understand talking. But a like? It's almost a meaningless form of communication.
I just pulled up my Instagram and counted the posts I've liked since I joined the service five years ago: 105. Most of my likes have gone to family, a few to close friends, and zero to celebrities. My likes are typically a "More of this, please!" sort of statement, which I would like to be heard.
Maybe likes on a celebrity photo could be seen as a sort of vote. Maybe in aggregate, Chris' encouragement of @emrata will lead her to produce more similar Instagram content in the future? If that's the case, while Chris' contribution was small, he's doing his part.
When you're like I have nothing to wear LOL
A post shared by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Mar 7, 2016 at 12:07am PST
Zainab: Instagram is definitely my favorite platform, and it’s safe to say I’m a bit of an addict. There’s no meme I haven’t seen, or Tastemade video I haven’t watched. It’s a double-edged sword, though, because on one hand, I’ll find endless inspiration, but on the other hand, I’ll go down the rabbit hole for over an hour and end up on a flat-tummy-tea-promoting fitness girl who has an inexplicably small waist. I’m guilty of throwing certain celebs likes that they definitely don’t need from me, but those are almost always models that look like they were built in labs and have some semblance of a personality: Imaan Hammam, Irina Shayk, and Adriana Lima. @emrata is another “how do you look like that” type of person I follow on the 'gram solely for motivation to go to the gym. (I ended up unfollowing her later on because, yawn.) Other than that, I pretty much follow anyone whose music matters to me and news publications; I see it as my visual Twitter news feed.
There’s a bit of a double standard when it comes to a woman double tapping a butt on Instagram, but when I was scrolling down my feed one morning after a lovely night with my boyfriend, my eyes stopped on that butt picture from @emrata. I’ll admit, I stared — probably for an unhealthy amount of time — but what was I really staring at? My boyfriend’s handle in the “xyz & 800,000 people liked this.” So sneaky, Instagram algorithm. Others might not agree, but I have a problem with this! I find it so Neanderthal-esque that men can’t help but have their fingers slip and double tap a big, almost naked butt. The entire concept of my boyfriend, or boyfriends in general, following random “fitness” girls and models they'll never meet irks me. When they throw them a like is when it reaches another level of dumb for me. Not because I feel threatened, but because it’s such a simple thing to not do when you have a beautiful girl right in front of you!
photo credit one and only @michaelangelnyc
A post shared by irinashayk (@irinashayk) on May 24, 2017 at 9:05am PDT
Micah: I only follow three celebrities on Instagram — Beyoncé, Drake, and Rihanna, the holy trinity of great music and good Instagrams. Usually if I’m scrolling through my feed, liking a bunch of photos from friends, and I see something interesting from one of them, I’ll give it a double tap. But this happens far less often than I like my actual friends’ photos. There’s not much thought that goes into not liking celebrity photos besides “they won’t see it, so why bother,” but then again I’m (relatively) old, and Instagram likes hold no social value for me.
As for Chris, I’m not sure why he liked Emily’s Ratajkowski’s Instagram (again, why bother?), but I’m also not sure why it matters. (Please don’t tweet me your reasons as to why it matters.) People use Instagram in weird and different ways. I will say I am a firm believer in never commenting under a celebrity’s Instagram. It’s tacky and awful and no one should ever do it. Now if Chris starts commenting under Ratajkowski’s posts, well then we need to hold an intervention.
Chris, my boyfriend, who responded by text: “I didn’t really think about it; I just liked it.”
If money were no object, what kind of car would you buy? Many people would probably choose a top-of-the-line sports car, or even a supercar or hypercar. Others might opt for a more practical luxury vehicle and tick all the options, like the Tesla Model S P100D. But regardless of your real-life financial situation, we all basically approach this dream scenario the same way: somewhere in the world there’s a car that we want more than all the others.
For the richest people in the world, though, this game has an entirely different set of rules. Yes, if you have enough money — I’m talking island-buying, jet-flying, so-rich-that-one-minute-spent-deciding-between-cars-would-actually-cost-you-money rich — you can apparently pay Rolls-Royce to design a car for you.
That’s the story the company is telling, anyway, about the new “Sweptail” coupe that was unveiled this past week at the yearly Concorso d’Eleganza Villa d’Este event in Italy. According to a (fantastically baroque) 2,500-plus-word press release issued by the company, a very rich man who considers himself a “connoisseur and collector of distinctive, one-off items including super-yachts and private aircraft” came to Rolls-Royce in 2013 with a request: would the automaker be so kind as to create a bespoke car for him?

Four years and a reported $13 million later, and the answer to that question is in the official press pictures below, which show off what is ostensibly the most expensive new car ever purchased.
The Sweptail is named after the tapered “swept tail” rear ends that helped make the company’s Phantoms famous in the early 20th century. In fact, many of its design elements were plucked from some of those iconic coupes. The Sweptail borrows from the round door look of the 1925 Phantom I, the silhouette of the 1934 Phantom II Streamline Saloon, and the swept tail designs of cars like the 1934 Gurney Nutting Phantom II Two Door Light Saloon.
Of course, this car’s got plenty of 21st century touches, too. The panoramic glass roof makes the one on the Tesla Model X look like a sunroof — there’s practically nothing blocking this mystery buyer’s skyward view while he drives (or gets chauffeured) around town. (Or, as Rolls-Royce put it, “What a place to be as one watches the world slip by through the vast windows and roof, detached from the outside world in a cocoon of luxury whilst feeling one is part of that passing landscape.”)
The interior is lined with “generous quantities” of polished Macassar Ebony and open-pore Paldao wood, because modest amounts of those materials are obviously out of the question. The analog clock in the dash uses machined titanium. The center console hides a champagne chiller and two crystal flutes. Instead of a hidden umbrella, like in the Dawn, the car’s side walls conceal a pair of carbon fiber attaché cases that have been specifically designed to fit the buyer’s laptop, and they match a set of custom luggage found in the trunk. There’s even a shelf for his hat.
So the next time that dream car crosses your mind, remember that you could actually dream even bigger if you had enough money to bend the rules. Who knows? Maybe someday you will. If the last two years on this Earth have taught us anything, it’s that everything is possible. Especially a custom-built Rolls-Royce with a built-in champagne cooler.
The X Prize Foundation has launched a number of competitions over the years that include everything from addressing water quality and women’s safety to exploring the depths of the ocean, to sending rovers to the Moon. Now, it’s assembled a supergroup of some of the world’s best known science fiction authors to help the organization imagine what the future will look like.
The Science Fiction Advisory Council is made up of 64 advisors, which includes some of the biggest names from the world of science fiction literature, film, and television: Charlie Jane Anders, Paolo Bacigalupi, Cory Doctorow, Neil Gaiman, David Goyer, Nancy Kress, Annalee Newitz, Larry Niven, Bruce Sterling, J. Michael Straczynski, Charles Stross, Andy Weir, and many others. Eric Desatnik, X Prize’s senior public relations director, told The Verge in an email that he brought the idea of the advisory council to the foundation’s founder, Peter Diamandis last year, who “said yes before I could even finish my sentence.”
The goal, he explains, “is to accelerate positive change in the world by bringing together” people who have already been doing just that. He noted that several of the foundation’s projects, were inspired directly by science fiction stories, including this the tricorder-style device that was awarded a $2.6 million prize.
The group will meet regularly throughout the year in virtual and in-person meetings, and will work with X Prize to figure out various “roadmaps” to “identify the ideal catalysts, drivers and mechanisms” for future prizes, focusing on several broad categories: Planet & Environment; Energy & Resources; Shelter & Infrastructure; Health & Wellbeing; Civil Society; Learning & Human Potential; and Space & New Frontiers.
The group’s first project will be a collaboration with Japan’s All Nippon Airways, Seat14C, which the foundation calls a “digital science fiction anthology featuring original stories by members of the advisory council, told from the perspectives of passengers onboard a fictional ANA flight from Tokyo to San Francisco who mysteriously find themselves transported 20 years in the future.”

You now have another opportunity to save on the Echo Dot if you missed out on Amazon’s flash deal last week. For a few days only, Amazon is offering a targeted sale on the Echo Dot, and it’s adding the Echo to the mix (restrictions listed below).
Sonos just announced discounts on the Play:1 and SUB. If you missed out on the Play:1 deal at Amazon last month, now is your chance to save on the wireless smart speaker.
Other standout deals include Monoprice’s big sale on USB-C cables and gadgets, and 20 percent off DJI’s OSMO Mobile Handheld Stabilized Gimbal (the first discount we are seeing on this).
Looking for gaming deals? Check out Polygon’s roundup here.
Good Deals is a weekly roundup of the best deals on the internet, curated by Vox Media's commerce editor, Chloe Reznikov, in collaboration with The Verge's editorial team. You can submit deals to deals@theverge.com and find more Good Deals here.
Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy.
This post has been updated on June 4th to add the Sonos deals and note a price change on the Dell Inspiron 2-in-1 15-inch Touch-Screen Laptop.


Another one of SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rockets successfully landed back on Earth this evening after launching cargo and supplies to the International Space Station. This time, the rocket touched down at the company’s landing site at Cape Canaveral, Florida, called Landing Zone 1.
That means SpaceX’s success streak of recovering its vehicles on solid ground continues. So far, all five of the company’s attempts to land on land have worked just fine. Now, SpaceX is in possession of ten Falcon 9 rockets that have flown to space and back — either by landing on ground or on one of the company’s drone ships at sea. One of those rockets has even landed twice.
SpaceX’s landings may seem fairly routine at this point, but the cargo the rocket was carrying before it landed was pretty significant — or at least, what was carrying the cargo was unique. For this flight, SpaceX used a Dragon cargo capsule that had already been to space before. The Dragon previously flew on SpaceX’s fourth cargo resupply mission for NASA back in September 2014. It remained in space at the ISS for nearly a month before returning to Earth and splashing down in the Pacific Ocean. It’s the first time a Dragon has been reused for a flight, making SpaceX the first private company to send a vehicle into orbit for a second time.
The Dragon is carrying around 6,000 pounds of supplies and science experiments for the crew of the ISS. That includes a group of fruit flies to test out how the cardiovascular system functions in microgravity, as well as a group of mice to study bone loss in the space environment. Some unique technologies are also riding up inside the Dragon’s trunk — the unpressurized structure attached to the spacecraft that provides support and houses the vehicle’s solar panels. The trunk contains an instrument called NICER, which will eventually be mounted to the outside of the space station to look for neutron stars, as well as a specialized solar panel called ROSA which can be unfurled a bit like a flag. The spacecraft is slated to rendezvous with the station on Monday.
Eventually, SpaceX hopes to keep reusing its Dragon cargo capsules moving forward. That way, the company can at some point shut down production of the vehicle and focus on the production of another spacecraft: the upgraded Dragon. That vehicle, known as Crew Dragon or Dragon 2, will be able to carry people to and from the ISS. A future iteration of the spacecraft will also be able to land propulsively, rather than rely strictly on parachutes to lower down to Earth. Thrusters embedded in the hull of Dragon will allow the vehicle to make a controlled descent to the ground.
And the Dragon cargo vehicles aren’t the only hardware that SpaceX is going to start reusing more often. With a growing stockpile of recovered rockets, the company is slowly starting to send them back into space. SpaceX launched its first previously flown Falcon 9 in March and plans to fly its next used booster in a couple of weeks to launch a satellite for Bulsatcom. The rockets and Dragon capsules have to be inspected and potentially refurbished before they fly again, which requires time and money. But SpaceX is hoping to reduce that turnaround time, potentially saving them a good chunk of money in manufacturing costs in the process.
SpaceX says it could re-fly as many as six used Falcon 9s before the end of 2017. And it looks like there may be a lot of opportunity for the company to do so. SpaceX has been upping the cadence of its launches as of late. Its last launch was just two weeks ago, and its next one is tentatively two weeks away as well. SpaceX President Gwynne Shotwell promised the company would increase its launch frequency this year, and it looks like that may actually be the case.
Today’s launch marked the 100th mission from NASA’s LC-39A, a historic site at the space agency’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida. The same pad was also used to launch the first crewed mission to the Moon as well as the last Shuttle mission.
Correction: An earlier version of this article stated that SpaceX had 11 used Falcon 9s in its possession, but it has 10 since one has landed twice. The article has been updated.

Essential hasn’t yet shipped its first smartphone, but Andy Rubin’s new company has already come upon its first trademark dispute. Spigen, a fairly well-known smartphone case and accessory maker, has sent Essential a cease and desist letter demanding that Rubin’s latest business stop using the “Essential” mark. Spigen holds a trademark for the Essential mark that covers a slew of consumer products — though not smartphones directly. Android Police has a good writeup on the situation.
Spigen insists that Essential will “cause confusion” if the company moves forward with its launch of the Essential Phone. In the cease and desist letter, Spigen’s lawyers also point out that Essental had its trademark application denied by the US Patent and Trademark Office — not once, but twice — for this precise reason. In refusing the mark requests from Rubin’s latest business, the USPTO pointed to potential confusion between Essential and Spigen’s Essential sub-brand, which is already being used for a variety of battery packs and other smartphone accessories.
Spigen’s legal team is demading that Essential stop using the term “Essential,” and if a response isn’t received by June 15th, the accessory maker is “prepared to take any and all actions to protect Spigen’s marks.”
The likelihood of this being a major obstacle for Rubin’s Essential is small. It’s more so a nuisance that might require the company to write a check to take care of. But so far, Essential’s official response is that Spigen’s claims are “without merit” and the company plans to “respond accordingly.”
Welcome back to consumer electronics, Andy.
If you live in Canada, you can now preorder a Google Home device. In an ironic twist, Google has beaten Amazon to Canada when it comes to smart assistants — the Echo still isn’t available in the country, despite being available for two years in the US.
The Google Home will cost $179 in Canada, right on par with US pricing when you consider the ongoing devaluation of the Canadian dollar. Google hasn’t given a release date for the speaker yet, but Best Buy’s preorder page says the device will be available on June 26th; Google says two to three weeks. Either way, Canadians should finally be able to yell at an inanimate object like their American neighbors within a few weeks.
The Google Home speaker will be available to purchase from Google, Best Buy, and other retail partners.
Last week, after the Alamo Drafthouse theater in Austin, Texas announced that it would host a screening of Wonder Woman limited to women (with proceeds benefiting Planned Parenthood), the men’s-rights types of the world lost it. The screening, just one of dozens of Wonder Woman screenings scheduled at the Drafthouse, was deemed “sexist,” “illegal,” “tacky,” and “bigoted.” After New York City’s Drafthouse location announced similar screenings, one man filed a civil rights complaint against Alamo Drafthouse. (And, for vague reasons, Carson Daly.)
It’s a run-of-the-mill misogynist hissy fit, similar to those we saw around Paul Feig’s women-led Ghostbusters last summer, or George Miller’s Mad Max: Fury Road — centered on Charlize Theron’s Imperator Furiosa instead of Max — the summer before. But this time, instead of once again picking up a metaphorical machete and attempting to hack through male rage with appeals based in empathy, logic, or historical context, the unified response to the Wonder Woman backlash has so far been “U mad, bro?” It feels like a collective relaxation of muscles we really do need for more important things, and it feels good.
Alamo Drafthouse pointed out in one Facebook comment that they often host group-specific screenings for veterans and active military, but beyond that, did not offer explanation or apology. In fact, whoever’s running the Austin theater’s social-media accounts taunted the trolls. Asked why the theater hasn’t hosted a men-only screening of a film, the theater’s Facebook account answered, “We’ve never done a showing where you had to be a man to get in, but we *did* show the Entourage movie a few years ago.” The New York City branch tweeted GIFs of Wonder Woman dancing after the first showing sold out, and rubbed it in with a popular meme from Fury Road: Imperator Furiosa rolling her eyes, over the closed caption label “Men Yelling Indistinctly.”
pic.twitter.com/DxtIAZlEs2
The NYC location’s Twitter account also noted, “We heard your complaints[,] have taken swift and decisive action. Another women-only #WonderWoman show on sale now!”
The mayor of Austin joined in the day before the film’s release, responding to an angry email from a constituent sarcastically: “I am writing to alert you that your email account has been hacked by an unfortunate and unusually hostile individual. Please remedy your account’s security right away, lest this person’s uninformed and sexist rantings give you a bad name.” A few hours later, New York Senator Kirsten Gillibrand announced a fundraiser in which donors (of any amount) would be entered to win an afternoon with her at a private Wonder Woman screening set up to “celebrate strong women and girls.”
The same day, Broadly’s Bethy Squires published a faux-apology from Alamo Drafthouse, which is meant as a joke, but doesn’t much depart from the theater’s official response: “We at the Alamo Drafthouse would like to officially apologize for our role in the end of mankind as we knew it, and the ascendant Gynocracy that followed.”
Inside the Wonder Woman women-only screenings pic.twitter.com/t2HmlavFcz
It’s a sharp break from the reactions to previous controversies. When The Force Awakens star Rey (Daisy Ridley) was derided online by misogynists as a “Mary Sue” — a thinly written wish-fulfillment character who is overly talented and beyond reproach in every way — the well-intentioned lined up to explain all the ways in which she wasn’t. They were rebutting an argument that drew most of its lifeblood from a corner of the internet that frankly didn’t give a shit either way, and was going to hate the movie regardless. To be fair, I’m guilty of this time-sucking argumentation, too, and even wrote a “How to talk about the new Ghostbusters movie with friends, family, and commenters” guide last year, in which I laboriously walked through the illogical arguments against the movie’s existence.
When a tiny fringe group of MRAs threatened to boycott Mad Max: Fury Road, major newspapers and trade publications covered it seriously, as a legitimate threat, rather than the deranged ranting of some really dumb bloggers. “Anti-Feminists Call for Boycott of Mad Max: Fury Road, Citing Feminist Agenda,” The Hollywood Reporter stated solemnly, echoed by CNN. (Compare that to The Washington Post this week: “Men flip out over women-only Wonder Woman screenings”) Fury Road made $379 million that summer, and won six Academy Awards the following year. MRAs later claimed to have robbed The Force Awakens of $4.2 million in gross box office… based on a Twitter poll with 565 respondents. Online outlets reported extensively on that assertion, with some sneers, but with lengthy, meticulous arguments nonetheless.
Acknowledging tantrums like this at all is dicey, especially when most of what any troll wants is oxygen and a megaphone. But denying them the headlines that make them sound powerful, and the pleading responses that make them feel catered to, is a start. Sure, laughing might make them angrier, but this is the rare situation in which it’s possible to argue that male rage matters less and less.
I got to see Wonder Woman by myself weeks ago so shut up there's already been a man-only screening.  Oh and it's a godddamn delight. pic.twitter.com/PHWQWxcIwN
The fact that Wonder Woman is the most expensive movie ever made by a woman, and that it stars a woman as its sole lead superhero, is not irrelevant. Men who work themselves into a frothing fury at perceived film industry slights lean on the only piece of leverage they have — their wallets. Throughout the age of the blockbuster, Hollywood has catered to dollars earned and spent by men. For the better part of two decades, it felt like nobody remembered that Titanic was the top-grossing film of the 1990s with a take of $659 million. Or that Nora Ephron made four shoestring-budget movies grossing $90 million or more that decade. Or that Julia Roberts was, in that same period, the most bankable movie star in the world.
Somehow, it’s only in the last few years that studio heads have experienced the epiphany that, yes, women have and spend money, too. Blockbusters attended by majority-women audiences — the Fifty Shades trilogy, the Magic Mike movies, Bridesmaids (famously billed with the tagline “chick flicks don’t have to suck”), and its children — have recently made a comeback.
Though it’s unfair that so much is riding on Patty Jenkins and her $150 million budget, which The Hollywood Reporter went so far as to refer to as a “gamble,” it’s a fair assumption that Warner Bros. has chosen to pursue an audience it didn’t really notice before. When men threatened to take their money away from Mad Max: Fury Road or Star Wars: The Force Awakens, despite the ridiculous math propping up claims that these online boycotts could even make a dent in those ticket sales, the media indulged the questions: could they really do it? Would there be cold, hard cash consequences for the slightest tinge of progressivism?
That response is missing this time, in part because prior outrage gave us evidence that financial consequences aren’t actually going to materialize. The chokehold these men have had on the film industry is being pulled off, one finger at a time.
You don’t have to personally enjoy superhero movies. I don’t. But this type of controversy has the power to stir something in anyone who cares about seeing cinema reflect and entertain a broader swathe of the population than it used to. (I bought an opening-day ticket to Wonder Woman.) There’s a heavily retweeted joke making the rounds on dozens of copycat Twitter accounts right now, saying that Alamo Drafthouse did more than Warner Bros. to promote Wonder Woman. That isn’t true, but with a handful of women-only screenings, Drafthouse obviously did something — which would have been a minor note in the story of this film’s release, if not for the people it enraged.
So in an ironic twist, the trolls are, for once, the party accidentally feeding the side they can’t fathom and actively despise, instead of the other way around. May they starve.
When it comes to school projects, some parents go all out. One father did just that recently when he constructed an amazing snowspeeder from The Empire Strikes Back out of cardboard for his daughter to take to school.
John Stoddard explained that his daughter’s school holds a “drive-in” movie event each year, “where the kids and their parents are supposed to bring a cardboard car or spaceship to sit in while they watch a movie on the last day of school.” A couple of years ago, his brother made an X-Wing fighter, and this year, Stoddard decided to make his own Star Wars spaceship for his daughter to take with her.
He posted up his build in a series of images to Imgur, which shows how he made the replica vehicle. The cockpit comes from an empty Cuisinart box, he made the wings from a refrigerator box, and used discarded carpet tubes for the cannons. Duct tape and gummed paper tape connect the various parts and reinforce the edges.
Once he finished assembling the body, he painted the ship gray, and added details like the engine’s air intakes. His wife took over after that, adding the orange stripes and some additional fine details. What makes this look even more remarkable is that they topped it off with blaster damage and weathering, which gives the ship a proper worn look that Star Wars is known for.
The final result? An incredibly happy six-year-old.
This series of images show that you don’t necessarily need a workshop full of top-of-the-line-tools and materials to make something that looks utterly spectacular (or an expensive Lego set). Often, it requires a little inspiration, a bit of time, and some work, but in the end, you end up with something really special.
Related

"Don't see an Alien sequel" is some of the most reliable moviegoing advice you can get, but Covenant looked gorgeous — and its reviews have been pretty good, too — so I went to check it out last weekend.
It’s really interesting how many elements Ridley Scott carries over from the original Alien. Covenant has an almost identical structure, one designed to warm you up to the characters, stress you the heck out, and then watch you squirm until it's all over. That's why I was so surprised by (and this is a minor spoiler, so skip ahead if you’re concerned) the introduction of a faster, more aggressive iteration of the classic alien.
Even though the film's structure is similar to the original, the pacing of the scary moments changes in such a huge way because Scott is able to dramatically ramp up the speed. Thinking back to the original Alien, I can barely remember seeing the thing move — now, with CGI, Covenant can show these creatures doing all kinds of a wild, dexterous things. In some cases, I think it works. But overall, I definitely prefer the super slow-burn tension of the original.
Check out nine trailers from this week below.
I certainly didn't peg Murder on the Orient Express as a book likely to receive a star-studded film adaptation, but it's getting a seriously star-studded adaptation, capped off with Kenneth Branagh both directing and starring as the legendary fictional detective Hercule Poirot. The music in this trailer is kind of mismatched, but overall it's an interesting first look with a fun long shot through a train car with the film's cast all reacting to the titular murder. It comes out November 10th.
District 9 director Neill Blomkamp is back with some creepy new aliens and a very interesting new project. Blomkamp has set up Oats Studios to produce a series of "experimental" short films that'll get released through Steam. The shorts don't seem to be "experimental" in an art film way; it’s more that they’re a way of testing audience reaction — if people like the shorts, they might then get worked into feature films. That's a smart approach from Blomkamp. His most successful film to date started life as a well-received short. It sounds like he's looking to replicate that with whatever Oats Studios puts out. There's no release date yet for whatever comes first, but it’s supposed to arrive soon.
Sofia Coppola just picked up Best Director at Cannes for The Beguiled, but it turns out she has a second project coming out this summer: a recording of La Traviata, an opera she directed last year. While it's certainly louder and grander than the typical Coppola piece, the sets and sensibilities all seem to have stayed in place. It comes out in the UK on July 9th.
This looks a little cheesy, but I'm super down with its premise: Kate Winslet and Idris Elba stranded on a mountain, with no one else around, trying to survive. It comes out October 20th.
Oliver Stone, the director behind the hit film Snowden, sat down with Vladimir Putin to ask him about the 2016 election, Russia's view of the US, and Trump, in what's sure to be a fascinating interview series. That said, it's a wide-open question whether Stone is able to grill Putin, or if he'll fall for the notoriously manipulative leader's spin. The four-part series debuts on Showtime June 12th.
Yeah, so officially no one believed Steven Soderbergh would actually retire from moviemaking. And we should all be glad to be so right, because Logan Lucky looks like the kind of movie only Soderbergh could bring us: irreverent, serious, weird, normal, and just generally great. It comes out August 18th.
Hey, it's been all of 30 seconds since we heard from the Duplass Brothers, so here's a teaser for their latest project: Room 104, which appears to be a wild and kind of trippy look at the many, many things that occur in a single motel room. I love the concept. It starts July 28th.
Apparently Amazon really likes the Fitzgeralds. It already has a series called Z that tracks the life of Zelda Fitzgerald, and now it's adapting her husband's final novel into yet another series. The Last Tycoon is about early Hollywood and the spectacle it strived to produce. It looks like a weird mix of salacious and corny, but maybe that's fitting. It hits Amazon on July 28th.
In lieu of a description, I'll just leave you with this quote from The Deuce (and The Wire) creator David Simon: “18 years at HBO, and I think I finally made something my mom can't watch.” It starts September 10th.
Science fiction is a genre that’s uniquely suited for making the internal into the external. Authors can take an intangible issue, whether it’s a relationship problem, a philosophical belief, or a scientific quandary, and make it material. John Kessel’s new novel The Moon and the Other does just that, playing out a complex, but relevant story about politics, gender identity, and social conflict through a series of characters living on Earth’s inhabited Moon. A wonderful, complicated, and beautiful novel, it asks what responsibilities people have to the societies they inhabit.
Set in 2149, The Moon and the Other takes a look at a lunar society full of social experiments. Some 3.2 million people inhabit a network of 27 distinct colonies, each with its own system of government and society. One such colony is The Society of Cousins, a matriarchal settlement in which men are encouraged to pursue a range of personal pursuits and sexual freedom, but are barred from voting or holding political office, unless they’re part of the work force.
The Society is a manifestation of political theory and philosophy. While its inhabitants enjoy a better standard of living than their lunar counterparts, resentment bubbles under the surface. Not everyone agrees with the aims of the Society, and agents, internal and external, are pushing for changes to how things run. The Organization of Lunar States sends out an investigative team to ostensibly examine human rights violations within the Society. But the team is actually a cover to see if the Society has developed weapons that specifically target men. While there, the investigators discover something much bigger: the IQSA, a device that can replicate any scanned object, even a person.
The story follows four characters caught in this complicated web of intrigue. There’s Erno, a former Society citizen — exiled after accidentally causing the death of his mother — who returns as a member of the investigative team; Amestris, an ambitious businesswoman and daughter of a wealthy industrialist from another colony called Persepolis, who marries Erno; Mira, a protest artist grappling with the death of her brother; and Casey, an athlete in the Society who is trying to gain parental rights for his son and push against the communities’ social norms.
Kessel weaves a believable world, blending hard science fiction and social commentary without losing the human element. The characters benefit from their added depth, giving weight to the questions they embody: what is the relationship between a person and the society that they’re a part of? And what obligation does an individual have to their political ideals?
But what has stuck with me is how the book turns philosophical ideas into livable space. The Moon and the Other uses the various colonies as manifestations of various political theories. The Society of Cousins is one such example, exploring how a matriarchal society would practically operate. Men in this colony are afforded the freedom to live out their desired occupations, but it’s women who are granted political authority and leadership roles. If men want to vote, they’re required to take on menial work. Persepolis is a polar opposite: everyone is completely equal in this libertarian-style society, but succeeding is difficult, with debtors frozen when they can’t get by. Kessel’s elegant writing and world building makes each of these colonies completely believable as worlds and societies — from the physical architecture of the settlements to the fine details of their systems of governance.
The novel suggest that the people who make up these systems undermine how effectively they’re realized. Throughout the novel, we see characters working to uphold or push their own agendas, only to have their own weaknesses undermine the entire system. Mira aspires to enact change as a Banksy-style protest artist, but she’s held back with guilt that her brother died on her watch. Carey’s mother invented the IQSA, but did so to resurrect her son when he died in an accident.
And so The Moon and the Other is a story about change — personal and societal — and the invisible forces that prevent and empower it. What’s special, though, is how it makes those forces feel so immediate — like you could reach out and grab them.
Photography by Andrew Liptak / The Verge

It’s been an eventful two years since Neill Blomkamp’s last film, Chappie, hit theaters. He spent part of that time working to develop a fifth installment of the Alien franchise, only to have it overtaken by Ridley Scott’s Alien: Covenant. At the same time, he directed an installment of BMW’s The Hire series, starring Clive Owen, and signed on to help write and direct an adaptation of Thomas Sweterlitsch’s upcoming novel The Gone World.
But what’s more exciting is Blomkamp’s next project, something that he’s been teasing on Twitter and Instagram for months now. Oats Studios is his attempt to create a new outlet for some of his ideas, putting together a series of short films that will be released online for free, in an attempt to see if one or more will gain some traction online. The hope is that the studio can be used to experiment with ideas that can later be scaled up into feature films, much like his short Alive in Joburg was turned into District 9. It’s not entirely clear when the short films will be available to stream, but Blomkamp says that it will be soon.
The Verge recently spoke with Blomkamp by phone about how Oats Studios came to be, his take on the state of the film industry, and what really happened to his Alien sequel.
The below interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.
I really like what you’ve been posting to Twitter and YouTube, and I’m interested in seeing what you have coming up with Oats Studios, and where you're going with it.
I’ve been building it for about two years. I have met pretty talented people that we've slowly assembled, so it’s been happening for a long time. At the end of making Chappie, I wanted to try to figure out a different method for making films and expressing myself. I felt that if I could sell smaller pieces directly to the audience, the sale of those small experimental pieces would keep this machine alive so that it became an ecosystem that was self-sufficient. And I could, at any point, pick one of the pieces that I made that felt like it resonated with the audience, and turn it into a feature film.
In the process of creating all of these ideas, a) it would be really creative, and b) it would allow me to interact with the audience directly, in a way that Hollywood doesn't really do.
So after thinking about it for a while, I came up with the idea. I needed a place that I could sell short films, and it felt like iTunes or any of the obvious outlets were massively lacking in any other avenues besides the films themselves. In other words: they don't give users the ability to look at all of the behind the scenes artwork in any real way. The more I thought about that, the more it became, “What if the users had access to all of the 3D files that we used for the visual effects?” If we just gave that away with any one-time purchase and you could render stuff yourself? Or what if we just give away all of the raw footage of one of the pieces, and anyone in the audience could they recut the the entire thing themselves? Stems from all of the music, or voiceovers from the actors; I just wanted to open it up and let people remix it.
After realizing that iTunes and stuff wasn't the right avenue for that, I started thinking about a game platform like Steam. I felt like Valve is a really awesome company and I've always had a massive level of respect for Valve. So we started moving in the direction of putting stuff on Steam, and that’s the road that we went down for two years.
Your background is in short films, like the one that inspired District 9. You also released your concept artwork for Alien 5 online. Would you say that those two things helped inspire Oats Studios?
Not exactly. I would go the other way around. Naturally, I like to experiment and play [with] lots of different ideas, and then hone in on one. I've always been like that, and I think any industry — not only the film industry — creates these patterns and traditions as it becomes efficient. While it does that, if you go a decade, or two decades, or a century down the line, it would establish ways that things are done.
Typically, directors in Hollywood work for one or two, or sometimes three years on a single film, while they're developing one or two other screenplays. By the time they're at the end of their career, they’ve experimented with maybe ten films. I'm fine with that — I want to do big films — but if you think of a painter or a sculptor, they're going to have three or four hundred incomplete oil paintings or half-done sculptures lying around in their house. I just want to experiment more. I just want to try to find a structure that allows me to do that. It's more a case of just trying to be creative.
Sort of like how a writer has a lot of rough drafts lying around, and seeing which one works the best to develop a bit more.
That's right, except in a slightly less clinical approach. There could be situations where I have one piece that really resonates with me, and it's maybe not as popular with the online audience. It's a case of just putting out ideas and then playing around and trying to be as creative as possible. I'm trying to build a small studio that from beginning, middle, and end, all aspects of film production, from costume, to visual effects, to editing, to casting, to legal stuff with all the actors, every single element happens under one roof, and it’s a playground for creativity.
Is the intent is to come up with these ideas, develop them thoroughly, and then release them as polished short films? Or are you thinking just “this is a cool idea; let’s film it and toss it out there?”
There’s differing levels of completeness to the scale. When we put stuff online, we have three bigger pieces that are around 20 minutes each that are of very high production value. Then we have a host of other crazy pieces that are smaller, but if the online community understands what I'm trying to do and gets behind it, you don't need to finish all of them to the same degree.
You can release stuff that is pre-vis level, you could really release looser stuff, like an  incomplete edit, along with high-level production pieces at the same time. At the moment, everything is done at a pretty high production level.
You mention you want to have a back-and-forth with your audience. Do you see yourself taking their advice and adjusting the projects?
The way that I think of it is that there's many levels that are operating with this project. The most simple version is with a relatively complete film, maybe three hundred people see it and a pattern emerges: A certain thing doesn't make sense, or characters do something that the audience doesn’t understand. Then you probably have an issue. It's like a human pattern recognition machine.
I think it's really dangerous for directors to start listening to individual notes: “I think you should cut out of that shot at X place,” or they start dictating the artistry of how the piece looks. I’m not interested in that at all.
I'm interested in [feedback] just to see if there’s some major error that we are making. The part that I'm more interested in is this upload / download interaction with the audience, where if there's anybody out there — any young budding screenwriter or concept artist, or anything — and they're like “For [the invasion film] Rakka, I have a really interesting idea for what can happen to this character. Here's my idea.”
We're trying to figure out how to deal with that, if there is some low-level revenue sharing with the user, or if it's a credit. I came up with the first piece and I'm building the studio and the world around it, but if this particular community member’s ideas really fit in with what I'm thinking and take me in a direction that I didn't think of, they can really contribute.
I saw a couple posts on Instagram of a green alien, which I'm assuming is from Rakka. Can you tell me a little bit about the film?
Pretty much every feature film that I've done is not a straight piece of filmmaking. District 9 is entirely metaphor, allegory, and partially satire. Elysium is satirical, and Chappie is completely mental. It fits into its own genre.
When I was in film school and when I was younger, my driving force was to be a dead-serious filmmaker. Films like Alien were what made me want to get into the industry. The Rakka piece is starting to move in the direction where I feel creatively, on bigger pieces, very interested in going down the road of dead-serious filmmaking. At the same time, I've got a couple of other pieces that basically have a weird, messed-up Monty Python feel, and some are indescribable comedy camp.
You mention that you're looking into serious storytelling with some of these projects. Are you going to incorporate the level of political commentary that’s in your previous films?
Absolutely, because it's in my genetic makeup that I'm just drawn to that. I think that's the reason I'm still really drawn into Elysium. [But] I think that filmmaking is about much more than that. There are still certain ideas that absolutely fit into that category, and there are certain ideas that I have in other categories that are completely apolitical. But each one of them has a deeper reason for existence.
District 9 existed because it was an allegory directly connected to apartheid. And just for argument's sake, look at something like Alien. Alien exist as an Freudian exploration into this psycho-sexual nightmare, and playing on those elements inside the human mind.
As long as there's a deeper core that you're striving for with each piece, I am really game — and as long as it's in this horror / science fiction / fantasy realm, then I’m there. I think Oats over the last two years has probably made me feel more interested in turning to some of those other categories. So the answer is yes, as well as others things.
How are you looking to build a community? Will people go to a forum on your studio's website, or are you looking to YouTube comments, or a combination of both?
We've been trying to figure this out for a year. I think the best way to do it may be a forum on our site, where we will hopefully have as much user interaction as possible. The secondary place would be YouTube and comments. I want to make us available as possible, whether that's our email addresses or through the forums. I think a big part of this is going to be an evolution where you learn what works and what doesn’t work.
Tell me about the studio. Is there a physical location? How many people are working on this?
In terms of more permanent people that are in the building, I think we got about 35 people at the moment. They range from post production, to the art department of production designers, to visual effects. We have our own props building department.
Can you tell me a little bit about the props department you put together? The Rakka alien I saw looks amazing.
That's entirely CGI.
Oh, wow!
There are a shitload of practical effects. There's a really awesome effect artist here in Vancouver, and he basically headed up our practical division where we build all of the props for the pieces we’ve filmed so far. He gave us a list of all the stuff we need, and he turned the back of the studio into this awesome workshop. We have this vacuum evacuated room for silicon molding and fumes, and then we've got lathes, milling machines, 3D printers, and a whole space for sculpting. We just made a shitload of stuff.
Is this a place where you guys just go out in the workshop and say “let's just build some shit,” and just see what comes out of that?
Yes, totally. If any part of this works and it becomes self-sufficient, then that's a huge part of what I want to do: refine it even further. For exactly that reason, many of the pieces that we're working on are big enough that they require this feature film level approach to them, and I want to make sure that playing around in the sandbox never goes away.
Does that extend to writing? If you, or employees, are looking to break down an idea into a screenplay?
That’s another thing that I want to do. In the beginning, I wrote everything. There’s a writer named Thomas Sweterlitsch, who wrote this amazing science fiction story that I am adapting for Fox called The Gone World. Tom came up to Vancouver for that movie, and being here and hanging out with him, it evolved quickly to the point where I started sending him either ideas or finished screenplays. I would be like, “Can you make this screenplay better,” or if it was just a treatment or an early idea, “Let's do the screenplay together.” He ended up contributing to everything we worked on here. I also worked with Terri [Tatchell, Blomkamp’s wife] on one of the pieces.
What is the status of The Gone World? I remember reading about it, but hadn't heard if it had entered production.
I think I did four drafts on that, and Tom is currently working on a screenplay. That is an amazing film, and it appears as though Fox really wants to make it. It’s amazing, so I hope we end up making it.
That’s where the thing with Oats is interesting. It's this place where you can go from making massive films like The Gone World, which are traditional in the sense that they are released to theaters. But I wanted the other 50 percent of my life to be a creative sandbox, and see how those two things interact with one another.
What about your previous films? Are you interested in using this as a workshop for tie-ins to District 9, Elysium, or Chappie?
Probably not, no. In order to do that you would have to interact with the studios that own those films. The whole point here is to just be autonomous and just do whatever we want.
With District 9, I plan on making another film in that world. To go back and work with WETA, and make the film would be cool, but anything that preexists like that may not be the best fit for whatever we're trying here.
You've been asked about this a lot, but I’m guessing that your Alien concept is completely done, right?
I think it's totally dead, yes. That would be an accurate assumption at this point.
It’s sad. I spent a long time working on that, and I feel like it was really pretty awesome. But politically, the way it’s gone now, and the way that it all is — it’s just not going to live.
As in studio politics?
Yeah. Ridley [Scott] was one of my idols growing up. He's so talented and he's made this film that really set me off in a direction. I want to just be as respectful and not go stamping around in this world that he created. I think that if the circumstances were different, and I didn't feel like I was getting too close to something that he obviously feels a massive personal connection to, that things that may have played out differently. But I did want to be as respectful as possible.
Have you seen Alien: Covenant?
No, I haven’t seen it yet. But I definitely want to check it out.




If you were at a Disney park over the Memorial Day weekend, the crushing lines were likely even more intense than expected. On one coast, the company’s Animal Kingdom park officially opened Pandora, its immersive land inspired by James Cameron’s Avatar, while in California the public began riding the new attraction Guardians of the Galaxy: Mission Breakout! It was a one-two punch that underscored the company’s brand-focused strategy under the stewardship of CEO Bob Iger: our theme parks are movies, and movies are our theme parks.
But Disney isn’t alone in this strategy. Parks have become an increasingly important investment focus for Hollywood studios — particularly as blockbuster season has become dominated by franchises and expanded universe films. With US movie attendance stagnating, the future is more uncertain than ever, and bringing beloved intellectual properties like Marvel into the physical realm adds a new revenue stream to the portfolio. But the Guardians ride and Pandora represent two drastically different approaches: one is a short-term fix, designed to surf the wave of popularity from James Gunn’s films. The other points toward a new weapon in Hollywood’s fight for mindshare, a type of experience that won’t just drive interest in flagship properties, but one that could become a full-fledged storytelling medium unto itself.
Theme parks riffing on existing intellectual property is certainly nothing new. Disney’s been doing it for decades, and over the years visitors to Universal’s parks have been able to go on rides based on everything from Jurassic Park to Twister. But the landscape shifted in 2010, when the Universal Orlando Resort opened The Wizarding World of Harry Potter. Instead of going for standalone rides, Wizarding World was about recreating the experience of being in J.K. Rowling’s fictional universe. It had rides and rollercoasters, but for many guests the thrill was just walking the recreated streets of Hogsmeade, wand in one hand, Butterbeer in another. Universal has long boasted that its parks let you “ride the movies,” but the selling point for the Wizarding World could be that it allows you to live in the movies.
As Wizarding World expanded its Orlando footprint and spread to California and Japan, the opportunity was obvious: the chance to visit the fictional world of the franchise didn’t just bring visitors into the park. It inspired them to buy in-world merchandise, to purchase costuming and props, and perhaps most importantly — to reengage with the source material itself. It was a new part of the Harry Potter ecosystem that encouraged and rewarded further engagement with every other part: a rising theme park tide that lifted all boats.
Avatar may not have the same cultural footprint that Harry Potter enjoys, but producer Jon Landau sees Disney’s Pandora park as a step toward that same grand concept as Wizarding World. “We're going to be building out our world in a whole series of publishing programs, including Dark Horse comics. We're doing 4 novels. And there's an Ubisoft game with [developer] Massive,” he tells me during a Pandora press event. “It’s all about expanding the story world of Pandora. What audiences can get here [in the park] is they can explore and discover.”
Bolstering that strategy is the way Pandora plays into the franchise’s larger lore. The park’s “Valley of Mo’ara” is set decades after Cameron’s fourth and final Avatar sequel, currently scheduled to hit theaters in 2025. The time frame sleight of hand lets the park exist without interfering with anything that may appear in the upcoming sequels — audiences won’t even see Avatar 2 for three more years — but more importantly, it creates a scenario where the park itself can freely become part of the franchise’s larger mythology. Landau says that kind of creative cross-collaboration has already begun, with ideas from the team at Walt Disney Imagineering making it into the upcoming sequels, and ideas tied to the upcoming films present in the park on opening day.
“Pandora is a large place,” he says. “We see stories that can take place in Mo'ara Valley, we see stories that can take place out in those waters that you saw [in Flight of Passage] with the crashing waves. The Shaman of Songs, that you'll see in the Na'vi River Journey — I can see her coming up in some of our publishing programs.”
Anecdotally, Pandora seems to have the desired effect; after touring the world my colleague James Bareham and I both commented that the first thing we wanted to do was watch the original movie again. But the trick for Disney is that it doesn’t actually own Avatar. Much like Universal did with Warner Bros. for Harry Potter, it licensed the theme park rights to the film, which was released by 20th Century Fox. The latter studio is moving forward with its own theme park ambitions internationally. 20th Century Fox World — featuring attractions based on Planet of the Apes, Alien vs. Predator, and Titanic, among others — is scheduled to open in Malaysia, Dubai, and South Korea over the coming years.
Disney was no doubt willing to make the Avatar deal because its parks are a vastly bigger business than its film division. In the 2016 fiscal year, Disney’s parks and resorts unit brought in $16.97 billion, dwarfing the $9.4 billion from the studio entertainment division. But as grand as Pandora may be, Disney is reserving its biggest bets for its own properties.
Toy Story Land, a theme park expansion based on the Pixar series, will be coming to Florida and Shanghai in addition to its current Paris and Hong Kong locations, but all eyes are truly on the company’s theme park plans for Star Wars. That 14-acre expansion, scheduled to open in both Orlando and Anaheim, California, looks to be the company’s most ambitious effort in immersive entertainment yet. According to a recent discussion at Star Wars Celebration, guests will be able to pilot the Millennium Falcon, and have their performance impact the way they’re treated by characters they run into at different locations throughout the greater venue. It sounds like a mini-Westworld, set a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away, and if the success of The Wizarding World of Harry Potter is any indication — attendance at Universal Studios Hollywood grew nearly 14 percent after it opened in California last year — the upside is staggering.
Strategically, it couldn’t come at a more important time for movie studios — and their corporate parents. The theatrical distribution business is uncertain, with the time movies get to play exclusively in theaters potentially collapsing in favor of earlier at-home viewing, and the Blu-ray and DVD business continues to dwindle. With so much invested in ongoing, interconnected cinematic worlds, it’s not only logical to look for every possible way to monetize them; it’s essential. The issue becomes that immersive parks like Pandora and Wizarding World are very specific kinds of beasts, conceptually based upon visiting exotic worlds and universes, and not every property is suited to the approach.
The perfect example may be Guardians of the Galaxy: Mission Breakout! Disney’s new ride is essentially a reskinned version of the Twilight Zone: Tower of Terror attraction that used to dominate the skyline at the California Adventure theme park, and as an aggressive drop ride, it’s quite a bit of fun. The premise is that The Guardians of the Galaxy have been captured by The Collector (Benicio Del Toro) and put on public display. As guests filter into the attraction, they see various props and costumes from the Marvel Cinematic Universe, presented as parts of his collection, before learning that Rocket Raccoon has found a way to stage a massive jailbreak, with the help of those riding the attraction.
There’s a forced, awkward mechanic that involves everyone raising their hands in unison to get Rocket the security clearance he needs, but from there the music kicks in and the ride gets going. The gantry lift aggressively moves up and down, revealing brief cut scenes with Chris Pratt, Dave Bautista, and the rest of the cast, in between perilous free-falls. The ride has six different variations, each set to their own song — I got Pat Benatar’s “Hit Me With Your Best Shot” all three times I rode last week — but ultimately there’s not really any story or larger immersive aspect to Mission Breakout! It’s a roller coaster, executed with raucous, rock n’ roll swagger, but that’s all there is to it.
Coming on the heels of our visit to Pandora, it was shocking how noticeable the difference between an immersive theme park experience and a traditional park ride became. It started the moment I stepped off Mission Breakout! and headed to the gift shop. I was expecting trinkets and souvenirs from The Collector’s personal gift shop; instead, I was surrounded by a bunch of T-shirts and merchandise from The Avengers and every other Marvel character I could think of. Essentially, I was dropped back into my own cynical, commercial reality — and after having just tried the immersive alternative in Orlando, it made the idea of a standalone ride in Anaheim seem forgettable.
The shift provides a particularly interesting challenge for Disney. As reported by Variety, Disney Parks chairman Bob Chapek promised that more Marvel-inspired attractions will be coming to its parks, and with the Marvel Cinematic Universe’s continued dominance the company would no doubt like to do it sooner rather than later. But Marvel’s world seems almost antithetical to the larger immersive strategy that’s worked so well for Harry Potter, and has Star Wars fans salivating. The MCU continuity takes place in a mirror version of our own world, and there’s really no overarching place that an immersive “Marvel World” could logically be set in. A park dedicated to The Avengers would amount to simply recreating New York City — about as alluring as a studio backlot tour. It may mean that Marvel’s presence in the company’s parks remain simpler, standalone experiences — but that’s a far cry from the kind of overlapping, interconnected creative world that Landau envisions for the Pandora park, or that the team behind Star Wars land have been hyping.
It also raises the question of how much influence theme parks may end up having on the film business itself. As far as movie audiences are concerned right now, the world of Avatar might as well not exist. The original film came out eight years ago, and we’ll see countless more Marvel, Star Wars, DC, and even Universal monster movies before we see another Na’vi on the big screen. But that’s what makes Pandora such an intriguing experiment: it has the potential to jump-start interest in a franchise that has otherwise been sitting dormant. Should that prove successful, it creates a scenario where a theme park will have been responsible for driving interest in a new movie rather than the other way around. In that world, immersive theme parks — and the narratives that can be told within them — can be used to launch new story ideas and characters, just as easily as a comic or tie-in novel.
Movies may not even be at the top of the food chain in that scenario. But at least they’ll still be alive and breathing, one part of the self-contained entertainment ecosystems that major franchises seem determined to become.
Today, SpaceX is set to launch another one of its Falcon 9 rockets from Florida, sending cargo and supplies to the International Space Station for NASA. It’s an otherwise routine launch that will include one of SpaceX’s signature rocket landing attempts afterward. But it wouldn’t be a SpaceX mission if the company didn’t try something completely new: this launch will be the first time that SpaceX reuses one of its Dragon cargo capsules — one that’s already flown to the station and then landed back on Earth.
The Dragon that’s going up on this flight was the same one used for SpaceX’s fourth cargo resupply mission to the station in September 2014. After a nearly month-long stay at the ISS, the Dragon landed with the help of parachutes in the Pacific Ocean. SpaceX then inspected the vehicle and refurbished it to make sure it was ready to fly again. A few components have been swapped out, but the overall structure and the thrusters from the original vehicle are the same, according to Hans Koenigsmann, vice president of flight reliability at SpaceX. One notable upgrade, however, was the addition of a new heat shield, plus the replacement of few outside components that came in contact with sea water when the Dragon splashed down in the ocean.
If all goes well, Dragon will join a small group of vehicles that have orbited the Earth multiple times — the most notable of which was NASA’s Space Shuttle. And it will be the first time a private company has sent a vehicle into orbit a second time. Eventually, SpaceX expects to re-fly most, if not all, of its Dragon cargo capsules. Such a move could likely result in substantial cost savings. The company hopes that by reusing the cargo vehicles, it can focus on making the next version of the Dragon, according to a Space News report from last year. That upgraded spacecraft will soon carry people to the International Space Station.
SpaceX seems to be making the shift into reusing its flight hardware more frequently now. The company has successfully landed 10 of its Falcon 9 rockets since 2015, and one of these used boosters flew again for the first time in March — an important proof-of-concept in SpaceX’s pursuit of reusability. Now the company plans to use another previously flown booster during its next satellite mission in a couple of weeks, and CEO Elon Musk said that up to six used Falcon 9s could fly by the end of the year. Meanwhile, the company is also making moves to save the rocket fairings (the nose cones) that surround the payloads at the top of the rocket, which easily cost millions of dollars. On that same historic March flight, SpaceX successfully landed parts of the nose cone via parachutes, the first step toward reusing them in the future.
On Saturday, SpaceX will also try to land the Falcon 9 after launch, the company’s 15th landing attempt. This time the target is the company’s landing pad, called Landing Zone 1, at Cape Canaveral, Florida. So far, SpaceX has attempted most of its landings on one of the company’s two autonomous drone ships in the ocean, but whenever the company has tried to land on land, it’s only seen success. All four of SpaceX’s previous landings at Landing Zone 1 have been perfect touchdowns.
But of course, the primary mission is not to land the rocket but to get nearly 6,000 pounds of supplies and science experiments to the ISS. Ironically, some of the most interesting experiments are riding up inside the Dragon’s unpressurized trunk, the expendable part of the spacecraft that provides support during launch and contains the vehicle’s solar panels. One such experiment is the NICER, an instrument that will eventually be mounted to the outside of the ISS to search for neutron stars. Another part of the trunk’s manifest includes the Roll Out Solar Array, or ROSA, a new type of solar panel technology that launches wound-up, and then rolls open in space. Meanwhile, fruit flies are headed up inside the Dragon to study how the heart responds to microgravity.
Whenever this flight does get off the ground, it’ll mark the 100th launch from NASA’s historic pad at LC-39A, which was used to launch the first astronauts to the Moon. The pad is now being leased by SpaceX to support flights of the Falcon 9 and the company’s future Falcon Heavy rocket. Saturday’s launch is currently slated for 5:07PM ET, and SpaceX has an instantaneous launch window this time — so it either has to launch right on schedule or move to another date. Originally, the launch was supposed to happen on Thursday at 5:55PM ET, but lightning in the Cape Canaveral area forced SpaceX to postpone the mission until Saturday. Weather isn’t looking too great for this weekend either. Right now, there’s a 60 percent chance that conditions will be favorable.
NASA’s coverage of the launch is set to begin at 4:30PM ET on Saturday, so check back then to watch the mission live.
Update June 1st, 5:35PM ET: This post was updated to include the scrub and new launch time.






Flipp is a Kickstarter project with a single goal: enable you to easily control your music. As the enthusiastic pitch video points out, there are plenty of smart home remotes that are packed with tons of features for controlling all sorts of things in your home — but sometimes, you just want a simple way to listen to music.
And things don’t get much simpler than Flipp. It’s a roughly palm-sized disc that does exactly four things: play / pause music, control volume, skip songs, and skip playlists. Each of those actions is tied to a specific motion based on which way you’re holding Flipp. Rotate it with the speckled white face up, and you control volume. Flipping (get it?) it over to the black side while rotating it signals the remote to skip through songs on a playlist. Press and rotate to switch between different playlists. And press the remote once toggle play / pause — no matter which side is up.
Flipp works by connecting to an included Flipp hub, which in turn connects to your speakers over Wi-Fi. It’s compatible with any Spotify Connect-powered speaker or a Sonos system, and you can configure multiple remotes to control different speakers or a group of speakers as you’d like. (You’ll still only need just the one hub.) The remote then connects to the hub over a 2.4GHz radio frequency, and is powered by a standard coin-cell battery that the company claims will last up to two years before needing to be replaced.
It’s admittedly a simple product from a functionality standpoint, but I really like the idea of Flipp. Sometimes, a single device that does one thing really well is all you need — assuming Flipp actually works as well as the video claims it does, anyway.
Flipp is the first product from a new Scandinavian company called Synt, a startup that’s dedicated to creating new connected device startups, like Flipp. That said, this is the first product from the group, and it’s also being crowdfunded. So the usual warnings do apply.
Synt is selling a Flipp set consisting of a single remote and hub for an early-bird price of $79, or $99 for later orders, with a planned November ship date.
Minnesota is grappling with 73 cases of measles right now — more cases than the entire country had last year. The outbreak is thanks to people who don’t vaccinate their children, according to the Minnesota Department of Health. These people wrongly believe a debunked theory that vaccination causes autism.
The Minnesota outbreak has exposed more than 8,000 people to the virus, mostly in schools and hospitals. “Many of the cases could have been prevented if people had gotten vaccinated," Kristen Ehresmann, director of the Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Prevention, and Control Division at Minnesota’s Department of Health told CNN. When fewer and fewer people are vaccinated, it puts everyone else at risk, too — especially those who aren’t vaccinated because they’re too young or sick.
Measles is a viral infection that causes high fever, a red rash, and, in more serious cases, blindness or brain inflammation. It’s highly contagious and can be spread through the air. Two doses of the MMR vaccine that protects against measles, mumps, and rubella is about 97 percent effective in getting rid of the disease, but that’s not much use if people aren’t being vaccinated. Measles was once declared eradicated from the United States, but it has since made a comeback. Last year alone, there were 70 measles cases in the country.
A National Institutes of Health study last year confirmed that growing fears of vaccination were partly to blame for the resurgence of measles. This is especially true among the region’s Somali community. In Minneapolis, fewer than half of Minnesota children of Somali descent have received the MMR shot because their parents believe it causes autism, according to NPR.
"It is a highly concentrated number of unvaccinated people," Michael Osterholm, director of the University of Minnesota's Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy, told NPR. "It is a potential kind of gas-and-match situation."

Tilt Brush is sort of like fancy MS Paint for virtual reality. It fosters creativity, allowing you to paint, smear, and dab beautiful (or in my case, sort of okay) works in a 3D space. Traditionally, artists use their hands to craft their VR art. But drones aren’t a bad option either.
On Twitter, Jaymis Loveday posted a video of himself navigating a drone to paint in the HTC Vive’s version of Tilt Brush. The video creates a mixed reality effect, wherein the physical drone appears to be painting beautiful swatches of color around midair.
IT FREAKING WORKED!@HTCVive Tracker on @DJIGlobal Mavic in @TiltBrush. Tracking is perfect!Drone = VR controller & Mixed Reality camera! pic.twitter.com/YlDrPNY5MJ
Loveday has played with drone paintings before with some pretty impressive results. This video, posted to Vimeo, has a higher quality demonstration than his tweet (though it would appear his painting skills have improved quite a bit).
The Tilt Brush community has created some truly terrific art you can find online, from re-creations of Iron Man and The Legend of Zelda: Majora’s Mask to original work.
The seventh season of Game of Thrones (coming July 16th) was pushed back several months due to a production schedule that needed to revolve around winter, but the eighth season may be pushed back even further, for vaguer reasons.
In an interview with Entertainment Weekly, HBO programming chief Casey Bloys hinted that the eighth season (only six episodes long) might not air until 2019. Discussing why showrunners David Benioff and Dan Weiss aren’t going to be involved in any spinoff series in a major way, Bloys said, “By the time the final season airs, Dan and David will have been at this for 12 years.” Though Weiss and Benioff first met Martin in 2006, HBO didn’t order the pilot of Game of Thrones until November 2008, and production didn’t begin until October 2009. It’s not clear where Bloys is measuring from, but to me the math looks a little depressing.
The interviewer then asked, more explicitly, “So as of now, the final season could air in 2018 and / or in 2019 depending on their needs?” To which Bloys responded, “Yeah. They have to write the episodes and figure out the production schedule. We’ll have a better sense of that once they get further into the writing.” It’s pretty vague, but it certainly implies that HBO has given Benioff and Weiss permission to take their time.
Though a Westeros-free 2018 would obviously disappoint Game of Thrones fans who can no longer fathom a summer without the show (me, too!), it’s possible that it’s... a good thing. Bloys hinted that the network still hasn’t determined how many Game of Thrones spinoffs it’s going to make (there are five in the very early stages of development), or when they would air, but they aren’t concerned about moving quickly: “Making Game of Thrones as good as possible is the No. 1 goal, and then we’ll see about these scripts. You’re not going to see a situation where the next show in the Thrones universe launches off the back of this one.”
He frames this pacing as an act of deference to Game of Thrones, making sure it gets “the sendoff” it deserves. But pushing the final season back would also give HBO more time to get its ducks in a row there, avoiding having to rush something new to screen. As they learned the first time around, a fiercely devoted fan base is also an incredibly critical one.
There are obvious questions to ask about how George R.R. Martin’s still-unfinished A Song of Ice and Fire series plays into this decision as well. The showrunners have known the major story beats and the gist of the ending for years, and Martin has often made a point of saying that the show and the books are two separate works, meant to be enjoyed on their own merits — but would he really want HBO to get the first stab at presenting the most anxiously awaited conclusion of a fantasy series in recent memory?
Though many fans believed the penultimate, sixth book in the series Winds of Winter would be released before HBO got to air season 6, it didn’t happen. They then revised that estimate to a release date preceding season 7, but it’s obvious that’s not going to happen either, and Martin has confirmed it several times on his personal blog. But some fans have speculated that Martin is working on the sixth and seventh books simultaneously, so that the gap between their release dates might be significantly narrower than those between previous installments. (It’s been nearly six years since volume five, A Dance with Dragons.) Pushing season 8 to 2019 could allow at least one of the books come out before the show drops all its end-game bombshells. There’s absolutely no way to know, Martin hasn’t so much as hinted at it, but I’m just trying to offer you a small comfort here.
Anyway, you may be waiting until 2019 for the end of Game of Thrones. I’m sorry.
Nutella’s manufacturer Ferrero partnered with its advertising agency Ogilvy & Mather Italia to devise a plan to get people to buy more Nutella. Their idea? Have an algorithm design the packaging. The company provided the software with a database of patterns and colors that Ferrero felt fit with the hazelnut spread brand. It then created 7 million unique jars that were sold throughout Italy.
You can see some of the designs below. They look nice. I wouldn’t mind having them at home, although I don’t live in Italy, so that’s never going to happen. It was a limited project. Still, good job, software, you’ve got the mojo to make packaging for hazelnut spread. What a feat.
The new Wonder Woman film has most of what Wonder Woman fans would expect from a cinematic adaptation of her comics. There's Paradise Island, the distant utopia where women warriors live and fight together, sans men. There's the magic golden lasso which compels people to tell the truth. There are the magical bracelets that deflect bullets (and the occasional World War I shell, since the film is set in that era). Steve Trevor, brave airman in need of rescue? Yep. Etta Candy, jovial sidekick? She's there. Improbable CGI superfeats? Of course.
Fans of the classic comics may miss a few iconic bits of the Wonder Woman mythos, though. Wonder Woman has some funny repartee, falling in line with Marvel Cinematic Universe films: at one point, Gal Gadot as Wonder Woman archly explains to Steve Trevor (Chris Pine) that men are necessary for biological reproduction, but not for pleasure. But while there are jokes, the comics’ more whimsical elements have been shelved. There's no invisible plane. (At least not as far as audiences can tell.). And the Amazons in the film ride normal, everyday horses, rather than giant battle kangaroos.
Battle kangaroos haven't been part of the Wonder Woman mythos for some 65 years. But in the original 1940s comics, written by William Marston and drawn with elegant stiffness by Harry G. Peter, kangas were one of the most visually distinctive — not to mention gloriously silly — aspects of life on Paradise Island. Amazons rode kangas in their Paradise Island military contests, and they even had special giant sky kangas that could take them to other planets.
Marston and Peter even had an origin issue for the giant kangaroos. In 1947, Wonder Woman #23 revealed that the kangaroos were brought to Paradise Island by cat-headed male aliens when Wonder Woman was a child. After some fighting, it turned out that the aliens were actually human-looking women. They joined the Amazons, and their giant kangaroos replaced the Amazons’ former mounts — giant bunnies. (Marston and Peter never got around to an origin issue for the bunnies.)
It's clear enough why Wonder Woman 2017 doesn't have giant kangas or bunnies: space-hopping kangaroos are silly. They're a fun concept for kids, but the movie is aimed at an older, more serious and sophisticated audience. Adults want a tormented Wonder Woman grieving for fallen comrades, not a cheerful Wonder Woman using her magic lasso to make dignified Amazon doctors stand on their heads. (The magic lasso was originally a lasso of command — much more broadly useful than the lasso of truth.)
The film's revamping of Wonder Woman's origin helps underline the difference in audience and tone. In the comic, Wonder Woman's mother crafts a child out of clay, and Aphrodite grants it life.
That's a child's story about how babies are made, the fantasy of an awkward parent who isn’t ready to get into the birds and the bees and the kangaroos. The film is mature enough to know better. In the movie version, the Amazon Hippolyta claims she crafted Diana — the future Wonder Woman — from clay, and Zeus animated her. But eventually, a character pointedly suggests that Hippolyta and Zeus made Diana the old-fashioned, biological way. Kids love kangaroos and don't know where babies come from. Wonder Woman 2017 is smarter than that.
But being smarter in this case feels a lot like being staid. The whimsical children’s version of Diana's birth is much more adventurous than the movie version. In Marston and Peter's comic, Aphrodite and Hippolyte make a child together, in an intentional vision of lesbian parthenogenesis. Marston lived in a polyamorous relationship with his wife, Elizabeth and their lover, Olive Byrne. He had children with both women. Elizabeth and Olive lived together for decades after Marston died; they were almost certainly bisexual. Marston was attuned to the possibility of unconventional family structures. He created a Wonder Woman origin story that cut out men, and refused the logic of patriarchy, whereby power travels from father to child. The film, in asserting that the facts of life must be the facts of life, and in attributing Wonder Woman's specialness to Zeus’ power as a god, dismisses Marston’s politics in order to tell a more conventional story. It’s supposedly more adult, but Marston might have considered it naïve.
Marston wasn't just a polyamorist, he was an academic psychologist and sexual theorist whose ideas seem daring even in 2017, and were more so in the 1940s. Marston's Emotions of Normal People (1928) argued, contra Freud, that children's erotic bonds with their mothers were normal and awesome, and if cultivated could save the world. He believed that everyone's erotic life was bound up (as it were) in dominance and submission, and he believed that female love leaders could use their erotic oomph to direct men and women alike to a utopia of peace, love, and bondage games.
The original Wonder Woman comics were whimsical and playful because they were for children — but also because they were sexual. Instead of massive CGI battles and explosions, the original Wonder Woman comics mostly featured stories where Wonder Woman and the villains alternated tying each other up and ordering each other around. Everyone got to top from the bottom and bottom from the top.
Marston very much intended for his playfulness to appeal to childish sensibilities and adult ones at the same time. He even wrote a comic about it: Sensation Comics #31, from 1944. In that story, Wonder Woman travels to Grown-Down Land, where children rule and force adults to take grown down medicine to make them children, too. Along the way, Wonder Woman is compelled to obey the dictatorial children, and she receives a sound spanking from toddlers while a mob of babies cheers. “It’s pretty tough being a grown down lady’s slave!” Wonder Woman exclaims. All in good fun, of course.
Sensation Comics #31 is pretty shocking even to the most jaded modern reader. Eroticized material involving toddlers, much less infants, remains taboo for most audiences. But Marston's comics aren’t out of line with other early children's literature. Peter Pan's innocence is so aggressive precisely because the sexual tension of a boy flying into a girl’s bedroom window is so overt. In her monograph Between Women, Sharon Marcus writes about Victorian doll stories for children, which often involved children spanking, beating, and tying up sentient animate dolls.
When people read such stories from a contemporary perspective, they tend to talk about repression and perversion. But Marston's goal was to encourage children not to be repressed. He wanted his readers (young and old) to embrace their imaginations, whether it took them to sky kangas or ritualized spankings. In Wonder Woman 2017, the Amazon games are all oriented toward battle preparation and the serious work of war. In Marston and Peter’s Paradise Island, the Amazons train for battle and athletic contests. But they also have a game where some Amazons dress up in deer skins while others hunt them, capture them, and pretend to eat them. Fighting and competing are fun, but so is goofy flirtation with your sisters. And if children got the message that lesbianism was acceptable, normal, and fun — well, Marston, Elizabeth, and Byrne would certainly approve.
Wonder Woman 2017 does occasionally channel the childish spirit of the original comics. Many superheroines on-screen, from Scarlett Johansson as Black Widow to Sarah Michelle Geller as Buffy, find their powers a burden and pine for normality. But Gal Gadot seems to genuinely enjoy her superfeats. In one scene, when she leaps across a ravine and grasps onto a ledge, she smiles gleefully, as if to say, "I am more awesome than I even knew!" Marston would approve; his Wonder Woman also really enjoyed her powers.
But in general, the more adult Wonder Woman is a more conventional superhero than Marston and Peter’s version. Gadot's Wonder Woman talks vaguely about the power of love, but mostly, her adventure involves beating the tar out of bad guys, and eventually slicing them apart with her sword — a phallic weapon added to her repertoire long after Marston died. Wonder Woman doesn’t lead Etta Candy and her sorority sisters to the stars to fight the evil Pluto. Instead, she and Steve recruit a pallid A-team of stock male mercenaries to fight, while Etta stays behind in London. Realism means that only Amazons and men have the adventures. Real women hang back at headquarters, and answer the phones.
Granted, few viewers would really want a fully Marston-derived Wonder Woman film, whatever that would look like. (Some sort of combination of Barbarella and Caged Heat?) Mainstream audience Wonder Woman fans, and moviegoers in general, want a heroine who overcomes personal tragedy, trades quips, and fights for rights — in sequences packed with lots of special effects.
I don't begrudge anyone their successful, badass Wonder Woman movie. But I think it's worth remembering that something is lost when you trade in the kangas for horses, and the whimsy for angst. Playfulness opens up possibilities for children of all ages. Marston and Peter were hopping about on distant planets decades ago. The new Wonder Woman, whatever its virtues, suggests we still haven't caught up with them.
Noah Berlatsky is the author of Wonder Woman: Bondage and Feminism in the Marston/Peter Comics.
By now, most smartphone users have experienced some form of augmented reality on their phones, whether they play Pokémon Go, use Snapchat, or actually remember the days of Yelp Monocle (from way back in 2009). But for the people who make the apps, AR isn’t quite as simple, particularly when the apps they’re building involve 3D or “volumetric” objects — stuff you can walk around and interact with through the screen of the phone.
Which is why Apple should start making that process a whole lot easier — especially if it is planning to release AR glasses in the future, ones that will need some sort of “killer app” or group of apps to justify their existence. Other companies, like Facebook, have now taken steps to let developers build AR experiences into their in-app cameras. You might not normally think of Facebook and Apple as direct competitors, but by doing this, Facebook has essentially set the stage for what is going to become an AR platform war on the phone. And Google already has its own AR platform, Tango. Amid the iOS, macOS, and potential Siri speaker reveals at WWDC next week, Apple needs to give due attention to AR.
Augmented reality refers to any kind of computer-generated image that appears on top of a view of the real world. For the sake of this argument, however, let’s focus on smartphones. There are 2D AR apps: ones that do a pretty basic job of slapping a flat, non-dynamic digital image over the stuff you’re seeing through your camera lens. Developers say this is the easiest kind of AR mobile app to build.
Then there are 3D AR apps, which usually require more advanced software development and image processing. Think: Snapchat’s filters like the digital flower crown hovering over your head as you move around in real time, or the virtual furniture you can examine and walk around in home-renovation app Houzz. These may seem like lightweight (or lighthearted) applications, but Snapchat’s lenses require a serious amount of engineering, and the Houzz 3D AR feature took months to build. Another home-renovation platform that offers 3D imaging, Modsy, does most of its image processing after you’ve taken smartphone photos, which can take anywhere from five minutes to several hours. Afterward, it sends the rendered 3D images back to you.
There’s another way to experience “true 3D” AR apps on a smartphone, and it’s a combo hardware-and-software solution. Google’s augmented reality computing platform, Tango, runs on smartphones that have a specific set of camera, infrared, and depth sensors. But right now there’s exactly one Tango phone model on the market. And some of the Tango apps are slow and low resolution.
Since we’re not expecting any sort of hardware update to the iPhone lineup for the next four months at least — no new cameras or depth sensors that would enable 3D AR — that means any Apple advancements around AR in the near term will come from the software side. Some have speculated that Apple could announce “ARkit,” a kind of framework that would integrate parts of the existing camera with new software in a way that would allow developers to gather more information from the camera.
Given that Apple chief executive Tim Cook has spoken so enthusiastically about AR in recent months, saying it’s a “big idea, like the smartphone,” this kind of framework makes a lot of sense. Currently, Apple doesn’t offer a specific API for virtual reality or augmented reality. There’s something called SceneKit, a kind of 3D-rendering engine for games, but no API for real-time object tracking. One developer, who spoke on background because of a pending AR app launch, told me that the one thing he has been hoping for is the ability to “hook into” the iPhone’s camera sensors and directly access the hardware in a way that developers currently can’t.
Plus, if Apple really does plan to introduce AR glasses at some point in the future (something that has been rumored, but not confirmed), it will need a healthy ecosystem of app developers who know how to make or have already embraced augmented reality apps. Releasing a suite of developer tools for AR on the phone will presumably make it easier to move those apps over to future AR hardware products Apple could make.
The last major pair of AR glasses to hit the market was the ill-fated Google Glass. Google Glass was awkward, made people uncomfortable in public, and even spawned the term “Glassholes.” But all of that may have been forgiven had the actual experience of having contextual information put right in front of your eyes been awesome. In other words: AR glasses are going to need apps so good and so useful that they justify whatever social awkwardness wearing a computer on your face creates.
Will Apple be able to get major app developers to build AR apps for glasses, if and when it gets into glasses? Of course. But there’s also the very real possibility that the breakout app or surprise app for AR glasses would come from a less-established developer, one who wouldn’t have the resources to invest in true 3D AR if it’s as technically complicated as it is now.
Apple has had a long-standing tradition of waiting to jump into a market because of the premise that it will do it — whatever it may be — better. But the company shouldn’t wait any longer to show the world that it’s serious about AR as a platform.

AT&T has a new deal for customers on the company’s cheaper, $60-a-month Unlimited Choice plan: DirecTV Now for an extra $10 a month.
It’s a deal that the company has previously offered to customers on the $90 Unlimited Plus plan, which offers HD streaming, 10GB of tethering, free HBO, and no speed cap — unlike the cheaper Unlimited Choice plan.
The new $10 deal for Unlimited Choice customers comes in the form of a $25-per-month video credit that starts after three billing cycles. When applied to the base-level $35-a-month DirecTV Now plan, that credit works out to the promised $10-per-month price point. Unlimited Plus customers can also apply that credit to a pricier plan or AT&T’s DirecTV or U-verse TV services instead, should they prefer more conventional TV options.
The base $35-a-month “Live a Little” plan offers over 60 channels, including AMC, FX, SyFy, USA, CNN, Fox, ABC, NBC, TNT, and more. That isn’t a bad deal for $10 extra, assuming you’re looking for an over-the-top TV service.
Correction: Unlimited Choice customers can only use the $25-per-month video credit on DirecTV Now. Only Unlimited Plus customers can use the credit for other AT&T TV services instead of DirecTV Now.
There’s a good chance you’ve never heard of Vivo, a China-focused smartphone company that is similar to Xiaomi or Oppo. But unlike those other two companies, chances are that, unless you live in China (or more recently, India), you’ve probably never encountered a Vivo device, or even seen the company’s name before.
While Vivo may not have that much of a presence in European or American markets, the company has been still been building up a serious following when it comes to overall sales — it’s currently the fifth most popular smartphone manufacturer in the world, according to IDC, when it comes to devices shipped. And Vivo isn’t stopping there, either. The company just announced that it has signed a six-year deal with FIFA to be the exclusive smartphone sponsor of the 2018 and 2022 World Cups.
That’s a big deal, given how popular the World Cup is. According to FIFA, the World Cup is the world’s most watched sporting event. The 2014 World Cup reached 3.2 billion viewers, with over 1 billion viewers tuning in to the broadcast of the finals. And Vivo’s deal means that its brand will be introduced to millions of new potential customers around the world through billboards, stadium advertisements, and other tie-in opportunities. The company is also planning to release a special edition World Cup phone closer to the event that will offer a “one of a kind experience for Vivo consumers and football fans.”
This isn’t Vivo’s first foray into sports sponsorship: the company recently became the Indian Premier League’s official sponsor (succeeding Pepsi), something that IDC cites as an important contributing factor in Vivo’s growth in India. And since the World Cup takes place on a far larger international stage, it’s entirely possible the company could see similar success on a bigger scale through the new FIFA partnership. In other words: if you haven’t heard of Vivo yet, chances are that between now and the 2018 World Cup, you definitely will.
Until recently, back issues of Omni Magazine were stored on the Internet Archive, for readers to page through at no cost. The collection of issues was taken down a couple of years ago, but it’s now back online on Amazon.com.
Earlier this week, Jerrick Media, owner of the Omni brand, announced that it was partnering with the Museum of Science Fiction to put the original issues of the magazine back online — this time in high-resolution. Instead of Archive.org, readers can find all 200 issues of the magazine on Amazon.
Each issue will cost $2.99 to buy, but it’s free for Kindle Unlimited subscribers. It’s a bit of a shame that the issues are no longer on the Internet Archive, but it is good to see that they’re back online once again. A portion of the proceeds from sales of the magazine will go to support the museum.
In addition to the magazine’s back issues, the company is also making episodes of a short-lived TV series based on the magazine available on Vimeo On Demand. Omni: The New Frontier originally aired in 1981 and was hosted by filmmaker and writer Peter Ustinov.
Omni Magazine was an enormously influential publication that ran from 1978 to 1995. Created by Penthouse publisher Bob Guccione and wife Kathy Keeton, it featured interviews with scientists such as Freeman Dyson, art from the likes of H.R. Giger and Chris Foss, and original fiction from established science fiction authors such as Isaac Asimov and newcomers like William Gibson. The original magazine went digital in 1995, but shuttered in 1998. In 2013, Jerrick Media resurrected the magazine in an online format called Omni Reboot.

Airbnb hosts have already been found to discriminate against guests with "black-sounding" names, and now it sounds like host discrimination extends to guests with disabilities as well.
A study by researchers at Rutgers, highlighted in The New York Times today, found that guests who disclose a disability are less likely to be approved for a room and more likely to be outright rejected.
Guests who didn’t disclose a disability received “pre-approval” from an Airbnb host 74.5 percent of the time. But that number dipped sharply for guests who disclosed a disability. A person with dwarfism had a 60.9 percent approval rate, and a person who was blind had a 49.7 percent approval rate.
Those figures dipped further for guests with cerebral palsy and spinal cord injuries, falling to just 43.4 percent and 24.8 percent, respectively.
The researchers said that some of the gap between pre-approvals could be explained by hosts stopping to ask questions about what accommodations a guest will need.
But the researchers believe that doesn’t explain everything. If you look at outright rejections, there’s a clear difference: guests without disabilities were only rejected 16.8 percent of the time, while guests with the four disabilities the researchers studied were rejected anywhere from 20.1 percent of the time for guests with dwarfism, to 59.8 percent of the time for guests with spinal cord injuries.
The study was conducted over the course of six months, with more than 3,800 booking requests being made across the United States’ 48 contiguous states. All guests were given profile pictures depicting white men around 30 years old.
Halfway through the study, Airbnb introduced new anti-discrimination policies that guests were required to agree to. But the researchers say responses “did not vary significantly” even once the new policy was in place.
In a response first provided to the Times, Airbnb said that most bookings on its platform are made through the Instant Book feature, which doesn’t require host approval. It also said, “discrimination of any kind on the Airbnb platform, including on the basis of ability, is abhorrent, a violation of our anti-discrimination policy, and will result in permanent removal from our platform.”
It’s a strong comment, but it doesn’t mean much if Airbnb can’t actually spot discrimination and if the discrimination is rooted, in part, in how Airbnb’s platform is designed. Airbnb has begun releasing more detailed tools for hosts to let them better indicate the accessibility of their listings, which could help prospective guests browsing the site. Those tools have rolled out to half of all hosts so far and will expand to guests this summer.
Airbnb also says it’s already following some of the suggestions to resolve discrimination made by the authors of this study, including educating hosts on Americans with Disabilities Act standards.
This week’s Vergecast is recorded out of the studio. Nilay heads to the West Coast to reunite with Dieter, Lauren, and Casey at this year’s Code Conference. The gang discusses the speakers (in more than one way) at the event including Andy Rubin, Hillary Clinton, and Reed Hastings. They also chat a little about the news outside of the conference.
Back in New York, Paul reports on gadget week with his weekly segment “Let me hug your robot heart.”
There’s a whole lot more in between, so listen to get it all!
01:29 - The case for editing tweets
06:01 - The Essential Phone: a first look at the hardware
30:11 - Paul’s weekly segment “Let me hug your robot heart”
32:49 - Netflix CEO says net neutrality is “not our primary battle”
42:41 - Clinton says the Russians had to be “guided by Americans” in how they weaponized information
55:37 - Don’t buy the Chromebook Pro until Google fixes a critical bug
59:11 - Verizon says the Droid brand isn’t dead, but it sure looks like it
1:01:30 - Microsoft's new Skype redesign is a radical change that looks like Snapchat
1:04:55 - Samsung's Bixby voice assistant is reportedly still weeks away from US launch
1:07:11 - Apple’s “Siri speaker’”reportedly enters manufacturing as announcement nears
If you enjoyed this podcast, there’s kinda more you can listen to! There’s Ctrl-Walt-Delete with Walt Mossberg and Nilay Patel, which dives deep into tech. We have Verge Extras, which experiments with audio and podcasting in new and interesting ways. You might also want to check out Recode Decode, hosted by Kara Swisher, and Too Embarrassed to Ask hosted by Lauren Goode! You can find them all in iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, and anywhere you get your podcasts nowadays.
For some reason, Samsung is releasing a Pirates of The Caribbean-themed Galaxy S8. Spec-wise, the phone isn’t any different than the standard Galaxy S8, save for a fancy box, some wallpaper, and a case. But when Disney is trying to make a film with a $230 million budget a success... well, this is what you get.
The phone, which is currently on sale at JD.com, only comes in the 4GB of RAM + 64GB of storage version, and retails for $880. It also comes with a special phone ring holder.
Honestly, there’s no reason to buy this. But if you are a huge Johnny Depp fan (or, more likely, Johnny Depp himself) your dreams of a Pirates of the Caribbean-themed cellphone case and wallpaper can be fulfilled. Or you could just go to the flea market, buy a knockoff case, and wait until someone uploads the wallpaper to Reddit and save approximately $870.
Your call.
This past weekend Disney officially opened up Pandora: The World of Avatar. We’ve already taken a look at the rides, the landscape, and even some of the odd foodstuffs that can be found throughout the park — but Pandora is an immersive environment, and sometimes the best way to get a sense of what it’s like to visit is to just look at the glorious sights it has to show you.
Below, The Verge’s own Bryan Bishop and James Bareham take you on a guided photo tour of what it’s like to spend a day (and night) in Pandora.
Click images to enlarge.
James and I arrived just after 8AM at Disney’s Animal Kingdom park in Orlando. The first thing we noticed when we crossed the bridge into Pandora itself was this sign — a map of the “Valley of Mo’ara” that serves as the setting for the new land. Nearby, a massive plant known as a Flaska Reclinata spewed water and steam whenever visitors would touch its purple insides. Following the path further brought us past a community drum circle... and then those astounding floating mountains. —Bryan Bishop
THE FLOATING MOUNTAINS
Though I was decidedly underwhelmed by the plot when I first watched Avatar, I remember being utterly overwhelmed by the world that James Cameron had realized. For me, one of the most impressive scenes in the entire film was when Jake’s avatar joins the Na’vi in the vertiginous climb up the “Hallelujah Mountains,” the floating rocks that came to define the insanely otherworldly natural landscape of Pandora.
So I had some trepidation about the potential for disappointment in seeing the “real” floating rocks in Pandora: The World of Avatar for the first time. I even joked with Bryan that their initial impact may be more akin to the famous Stonehenge scene in the movie This is Spinal Tap, when the “enormous” iconic stone arch lowered onto the stage was actually smaller than the diminutive dancers gamely jigging around it.
Crossing the bridge and entering the park, I remember thinking that though the floating mountains were certainly big and definitely kind of impressive, maybe they were actually a letdown because they didn’t actually float. But as the day wore on, I found myself gazing up at the looming boulders and watching the vines sway in the breeze. I wondered just how in the hell the Walt Disney Imagineering team had made such an enormous structure hang in the air like... well, just like floating rocks. —James Bareham
PANDORA PLANT LIFE
After we finished gawking at those mountains, the next thing that caught our attention was the plant life. That massive pod near the entrance was just the beginning, because Pandora teems with vivid plants of all shapes and sizes. Purples, pinks, and blues contrasted sharply with the green foliage, while large, Alien-esque egg-shaped plants — known, unfortunately, as “vein pods” — littered the landscape
Tour guides from Alpha Centauri Expeditions, the company that is ostensibly behind the trips to Pandora, were nearby to educate us about various types of plant life, and fill us in on what had happened in the 100 years since the events chronicled in James Cameron’s 2009 film. Unfortunately, those tour guides were only part of the press event. Hopefully Disney sees fit to add them to the public experience as well. After all, the best way to believe you’re visiting an alien world is to talk to the people that live there. —Bryan Bishop
My last visit to Disney World was in 1997. Back then, I found Space Mountain and Epcot a little bit tired and sad, like the members of a once-great rock n roll band that knew their glory days were behind them. Riding Flight of Passage last week, on the other hand, was like watching U2 play their biggest, loudest, and most impressive gig ever — just for me. It was quite something.
I feel extremely fortunate to have ridden Flight of Passage four times — two of them back-to-back — all of them without having to spend much time waiting in line. (It’s a long line.) The ride is so intoxicating that by the fourth go I was both addicted and overwhelmed by the knowledge that no matter how many times I rode it, I would never recapture the insanely euphoric feeling I’d experienced “flying” over the staggeringly real world of Pandora that first time.
And for any of you who are thinking of filming your Flight of Passage to post on YouTube: don’t. Do yourself a favor and put your phone away. You’ll thank me afterward.
But before you embark on this epic — and admittedly rather short — adventure, you’ll take a leisurely stroll (or more likely a slow, step-by-step shuffle) along the meandering path that leads up to the Flight of Passage ride itself. The view from the queue is pretty impressive — which is a good thing because, in all likelihood, you’re going to be looking at it for quite some time.
Once you make your way past the rocks and fauna, you’ll eventually enter a cave system (complete with Na’vi paintings on the roughly hewn walls); a dark passageway (full of bioluminescent plant life); and on through huge, rusty doors that open into the “labs” belonging to the Pandora Conservation Initiative, current home of the Avatar program. The lab is basically the ultimate film set: lovingly art directed with rich detail, down to lab coats on chairs and mugs on desks. The avatar in the tank is the main attraction, but I also loved the little “aliens” blobbing about in smaller tanks. Shame you can’t buy one in the gift store.
THE LAB IS JUST A RESPITE; IT’S NOT THE END
Just when you think you’re finally about to enter the ride, you instead enter a cavernous hall with a life-sized Banshee and a pair of Na’vi stenciled on the wall. You will enter the long, dark, industrial passageways (that will most likely be filled with people) that you must navigate before you finally get to experience the ride.
Like so much of Pandora: World of Avatar, all of the richly detailed scenery that we passed by on our long walk(s) to the Flight of Passage chamber made us realize just how insane Star Wars land will be. Just look at that picture above and tell me you don’t see a Rebel bunker. —James Bareham
The entire premise of visiting Pandora is that guests are on a tourist expedition, which provides a convenient in-game rationale for doing silly tourist things — including buying tons of branded gear in gift shops. Pandora’s main merch option is a store called Windtraders, and as we exited Flight of Passage, the line led us straight to its doors.
The variety of merchandise was actually quite impressive. There were T-shirts and flip-flops, but there were also Na’vi tails, hair braid extensions, and miniature Banshee puppets that could sit on your shoulder. Guests looking to blow $100 could also purchase their own floating, twirling chunk of “unobtanium.” (Yes, I considered buying it. Don’t judge.) —Bryan Bishop
I should start here by admitting I made a massive mistake: I went on the Na’vi River Journey after riding Flight of Passage.
In retrospect, there was no way that this slow, serene, river cruise was going to live up to my expectations of what a ride through the bioluminescent nighttime jungle of Pandora would be like. And it didn’t.
Bryan’s view of the ride is a lot, er... fairer than mine. He makes a very good point about this being more of a traditional Disney ride than the cutting-edge 3D simulator that is Flight of Passage. Nevertheless, I found the Na’vi River Journey to be extremely disappointing: it seems small and claustrophobic, more like a ride through a cave with some fluorescent scenery (which it kind of is) than an epic exploratory journey through a deep, dark alien rain forest (which it most definitely is not).
Had I taken this ride before riding the Flight of Passage, I’m sure that my reaction would have been very different. I also feel that I am being slightly disingenuous about the obvious care and detail that has been put into the River Journey — particularly the animatronic Shaman of Songs which is creepily real. And I must also accept that I am hardly the target demographic. But having said all that, I still feel that the Na’vi River Journey could, and should, have been so much more. —James Bareham
The hidden creatures frolicking on the leaves are a nice touch.
After trying both rides, it was time to eat, so we headed over to the Satu'li Canteen. Like most of the structures on Pandora, it was built in the ruins of a building left over from RDA — the mining company that Giovanni Ribisi worked for in Avatar. Aside from the blueberry cheesecake, the menu was pretty straightforward: build-it-yourself bowls and bao buns stuffed with either vegetable curry or cheeseburger filling. (They tasted just like cheeseburgers.) While the food was by no means evocative of an alien world, the set decoration was impressive, giving everything the sense of being part of the world and narrative — including the cabinets in the room where dishes could be stacked.
Afterward, we headed to a drink stand nearby called Pongu Pongu (Na’vi for “party party,” we were told). That’s where we tried the Night Blossom, a sugary-sweet instant brain freeze beverage that was actually quite tasty. That’s also where we spotted a giant mech walker that looked like it was pulled straight from the movie. (James was annoyed we couldn’t climb inside — and rightfully so.) —Bryan Bishop
A smaller bridge nearby took us to a pond, where several small creatures floated. These weren’t animatronic animals; instead they just sat there by the waterline, looking sufficiently odd and Pandora-y. Judging from a sign nearby that warned of their reaction to arm movements, it seems like there will eventually be some sort of interactivity from these critters, but during our visit they were dormant. To get a glimpse of any other animal activity — or to see the Na’vi themselves, for that matter — guests will have to visit Flight of Passage or the Na’vi River Journey. —Bryan Bishop
After revisiting both Flight of Passage and Na’vi River Journey a few more times, we headed back to our hotel room for a break. When we returned to the park a few hours later, the sun had set and the entire landscape was transformed.
In the film, Pandora becomes a glowing, bioluminescent landscape at night, and with the power of black lights and I don’t want to know how much glow paint, the physical park does the same thing. The transformation is awe-inspiring; words simply don’t cut it. Even our pictures have a tough time conveying what it’s like to be surrounded by this kind of exotic world on all sides.
If Pandora by day delivers the sense of being on a different planet, Pandora at night made us feel as if we were on a truly alien world. We hadn’t seen anything like it before, and it’s one of the things I’m most excited about experiencing again when I return. —Bryan Bishop
All photography by James Bareham and Bryan Bishop / The Verge
I hate Slack. Not what it represents: unified, media-rich team communication across time and space. But how it's implemented: a slow, memory-hungry web app that hates my computer. Also, my boss banned novelty status emoji, so I'm still a little salty about that.
But I will admit that Slack has some really nice (non-customizable) keyboard shortcuts that make the whole experience slightly more bearable. A comprehensive list can be found on Slack's help site, but here are the three I use the most:
This is sort of like Spotlight for Slack, and I use it all day, every day. Hit the command, start typing into the search box that appears, and hit enter to jump to that conversation. You can jump to a DM with anybody on your team, or teleport to any channel, and you don't even usually have to type the full name — Slack's smart enough to bubble up people you're more likely to interact with, instead of the seventh Josh at your company who works in an entirely different department.
You can also do ⌘ + Shift + K to pull up the direct messages menu, which allows you to create new multi-person direct message conversations.
I don't like to typo in work chat, because it makes me look like a big ol' dummo. If I notice a typo in one of my messages, I can click the little "..." Show Message Actions button to edit it, of course, but did you know that you can press the up arrow in an empty message box to edit your most recent message?
I find this really intuitive, because you use the up arrow to cycle through your most recent commands in a typical command line terminal. I don't know if other people find it intuitive, but I do know that it's basically indispensable for anyone who hates typos.
This one's probably the easiest to discover, because when you hover over the "Mark as read" button in the blue unread message banner, it lets you know about the escape shortcut. One nice way to catch up on a Slack backlog is to using Alt + Shift + ↑ / ↓ to iterate through unread channels and DMs, and then hitting escape once you're sure you have the gist of the room.
There’s also a setting to automatically mark any room as read as soon as you visit it, if you prefer that method:
Also, let's not forget the nuclear option: Shift + Escape, which marks all messages read, in all channels, and is a great gift that I treasure in times of madness.
There are a bunch of Slack things that are so second nature now, or common enough UI paradigms, that I don't think of them as shortcuts anymore. Like tab to complete usernames, ":" to create an emoji, and the always-handy ⌘ + Q to save five hours on my laptop's battery life. There are also some things I'm trying to add to my workflow, like the Open All Unreads view (⌘ + Shift + A / Ctrl + Shift + A). I'm also a neophyte when it comes to the dozen or so bots that are available in my team's Slack, but I'm sure I'll familiarize myself eventually.
Let me know if you have any other favorite Slack moves that you've found helpful.
In the years after I graduated college, my primary tool for managing money was prayer. Pray that the $20 in my wallet would cover lunch through the week. Pray my friend waited a few days to cash the check I wrote him. Pray the dentist doesn’t find any cavities. My first newspaper job paid me $28,500, and while I never felt poor, an unexpected $500 expense would have more or less wiped me out.
I never learned to balance a checkbook — in my mind, the only relevant question was whether there was still money in my checking account — but I did employ a single piece of software: Microsoft Money, which was finally killed off in 2010. I remember being mesmerized by its chart of my anticipated cash flow, which showed my account rising and falling along with paychecks and bills. It was a basic tool, but it did its job: as best as I can recall, I only overdrafted my account once.
If you’re just learning to get your finances in order, or you’re ready to start giving them some more thought, you have a wealth of app options. You can get by with a single app for music, maps, notes, and calendars, but when it comes to managing your money, no one app will do. Your bank’s app will tell you how much money is in your account, but when it comes to getting a picture of your overall finances, or saving for a major purchase, or splitting the tab at a restaurant, you’re pretty much on your own.
The good news is that there are tools in your local app store to handle just about all of your everyday finance needs. The bad news is that there are hundreds to choose from. If you’re happy with your current setup, there’s no pressing need to change it. But if you’ve never examined your spending by category, or saved more than $100, there have never been easier ways to get started.
Here are our picks for the essential finance apps for planning your budget, tracking your spending, monitoring your credit, and paying your friends back. We also looked at apps that help to automate investing, but I’m not comfortable recommending one. Most people are better off maximizing their investments in a tax-advantaged retirement account, such as a 401(k) or an IRA. Until you’ve done that, you probably don’t need an investment app.
Plan your budget and track your spending
The first step toward getting your finances in order is getting some insight into your spending habits. You need to understand what you can afford to spend funds on, and then monitor your spending in real time. Your bank’s app will likely give you some basic insight into your checking account, but you have better options for getting a more holistic view.
If anything, you have too many options here — there are dozens of good-enough budgeting apps out there, but the best budgeting app will always be whatever works best for you. I’m going to suggest you consider two: Mint, a feature-packed personal-finance stalwart owned by Intuit; and Clarity Money, a beautifully designed up-and-comer that is currently available on iOS only. (An Android app is in development.)
Mint is easy to recommend for three reasons: one, it’s a trusted, venerable app in a space where lots of players come and go. Two, it has continually invested in new features since being acquired by Intuit in 2009, and it now offers tools for paying your bills, checking your credit score, and making progress toward your savings goals. And three, it’s ubiquitous — you can get it on Android, iOS, and the web.
Plug in credentials for your financial institutions and Mint will create a solid overview of your finances: recent transactions, upcoming bills, a breakdown of your monthly spending, and more. It’s all interspersed with ads for credit cards, life insurance, and other financial tools, which is how Mint makes money. Mint’s promotions can feel overly aggressive; its mobile app has an entire tab devoted to these “offers,” when most people I know won’t open a single new credit card all year.
Where Mint falls down is in its mobile design — which is a shame, since its original website won critical acclaim when it debuted in 2006. Mint’s tabs are redundant and confusing. (What is the difference between “updates” and “overview”?). It can feel as if the various financial widgets have been sprinkled throughout the app at random. You’ll get the hang of Mint eventually, and few apps can boast more or better free tools. It’s just a bit messy.
That’s why I’ve come to prefer Clarity Money, a venture-backed startup with an iOS app that launched in January. Clarity neatly organizes itself into four tabs: a home feed, an accounts page, a search tool, and your profile. The home feed is a marvel of charts, illustrations, and spending trackers, and each one is designed with genuine flair. (The top of the feed offers a charming daily quote about finances along with the local weather.) From the moment you open the app, you’ll see your current cash on hand and credit debt. As you scroll down, you’ll see your recent transactions and the amount of cash you have left to spend this month.
The spending tracker has a particularly clever design. Clarity will show you how much you spent on several categories by week, month, or year: Uber, Lyft, Starbucks, and Amazon are among the big expenses that Clarity can show you at a glance. I’m also taken with its colorful categorized spending charts: tap a section of the chart to examine the spending category and the chart will transform with new illustrations related to the category.
Clarity offers four other useful tools inside its home feed: a tool that monitors your subscriptions and offers to cancel them on your behalf; a tool to check your credit score; a tool to transfer money between accounts; and a tool to create an automated savings account based on rules that you set up. (“Save $5 every Monday for a rainy day,” for example.) The app is studded with useful cards telling you whether you’re using your credit responsibly or spending more than you should.
Clarity can’t do everything Mint can do — not yet, anyway. Mint is a better option for those who like to create budgets manually, or who want a little more hand-holding as they navigate through the month. (Immediately upon creating my Mint account, it began scolding me for being wildly over budget on several categories, even though I had never established a budget or told the app any of my goals.) But Clarity is calmer and friendlier — and once it’s available on Android, it might become my default recommendation for most people.
Alternative: PocketGuard, Spendee, Wally, Level, and Prosper Daily all have nice designs and accomplish many of the same basic functions that Mint and Clarity do.
Check your credit score
Credit Karma
Once you’ve got a handle on your spending, you’ll want to consider working toward making a major purchase: a car or a house, for example. A good credit score is essential for getting either, and also comes in handy when renting an apartment or even applying for jobs. Yet for too long, finding out your own score involved mailing separate requests to the major credit bureaus — and at your own expense. When they moved to the web, the bureaus began offering full credit reports for $1. They did this while noting, in much smaller print, that with your purchase you were simultaneously enrolling in expensive credit-monitoring services.
That’s why Credit Karma, which was founded in 2007, has been such a godsend. The company lets you check your credit score for free, making its money by suggesting credit cards that might be better for you based on your spending patterns. But you’re free to ignore those offers. In the meantime, you can check your credit whenever you like. If you’re struggling, the app will offer ideas on how you can improve your score. As of this year, it will also offer to check government databases to see if you are owed cash, and even file your taxes. Few apps in this world are too good to be true, but Credit Karma consistently feels like one of them.
Alternative: Both Mint and Clarium allow you to monitor your credit score for free inside their apps.
Save money quickly and intelligently
Digit
Making a major purchase also requires saving money — something that Americans are generally terrible at. The majority say an unanticipated $500 expense would put them into debt. And banks have been essentially useless in helping them put any money away for a rainy day.
That’s why Digit’s arrival in 2015 was so welcome. Once you sign up, Digit creates a new savings account and manages it for you, socking away a few dollars at a time from your checking account. It learns when your bills are due and withdraws money only when it believes you wouldn’t miss the cash. The average user saves about 5 percent of their salary over the course of a year, not accounting for the savings that they later withdraw from their Digit account.
I used Digit to build a healthy emergency fund for myself, and I have recommended it enthusiastically ever since. Then this year the company instituted a $3 monthly fee, which it announced rather clumsily, and some Digit users began seeking a better alternative. I understand why: if you have no savings at all, paying $3 a month for the privilege of not spending money can feel counterproductive. Because of the fee, Digit is least useful to the customers who arguably need it the most.
But even with the fee, I still think Digit is the best automated savings tool available today. For your $3 a month, you’ll likely build a bigger savings account than you thought you were capable of — and reap the peace of mind that comes with it. The handful of free alternatives to Digit have unproven business models, making me wary of their long-term prospects. Digit has also started to introduce new money-management features that make it more valuable. You can tell it to sock away the money you’ll need to pay your monthly rent, for example, and it will inject the money back into your account just before the rent is due.
For me, there’s no arguing with the results — Digit has saved me serious cash. If it saves you at least $3,600, the 1 percent interest rate will cover the cost of its monthly fees. You’ll have more in savings than the majority of your fellow Americans — and feel far more capable of handling whatever life throws at you.
Alternative: Qapital is a free alternative that saves money based on rules you set up — rounding to the nearest dollar whenever you take a Lyft and transferring the change to savings, for example. Clarity offers a similar automated savings tool. Downside to both: they put the onus on you to determine how much you should save, and their business models are unproven.
Pay your friends back
Venmo
The last tool you need on your phone is something to help you split bills with friends, loved ones, and roommates — and easily pay the rando you just bought a couch from off Craigslist. Venmo is likely the best known app on this list, and the one most likely to already be on your phone. But the relatively simple peer-to-peer payments app, which is now a subsidiary of PayPal, is still far from ubiquitous. And that’s a shame, because there are few faster ways to transfer money. Just tap the new payments button, type in a friend’s username, and type in the amount of money you want to send or request. It’s all free to both sender and recipient.
Venmo took off among young people, thanks to a novel, counterintuitive gimmick: every payment has to be accompanied by an emoji, which then appears publicly in a feed by default. (The amount of the payment is never shared.) The format is ripe for joking around — sex- and drug-related emoji abound. But it also brings some levity, and humanity, to a genre of app that had never previously seen either. Venmo can be very silly if you’re browsing the feed of your friends’ payments, but it’s also a rock-solid way to move money around — and it has more than earned a place on your phone.
If you regularly split bills with friends or roommates, you should check out Splitwise, which offers more powerful tools for tracking who has paid you back and still owes you. The app lets you settle up using Venmo or PayPal, or you can record a cash payment.
Alternative: Square Cash is even simpler than Venmo, but lacks both the novel social feed and the size of Venmo’s network.
Police should be allowed to unmask anonymous callers who have made serious threats over the phone, the Federal Communications Commission has proposed.
The proposal would allow law enforcement, and potentially the person who’s been called, to learn the phone number of an anonymous caller if they receive a “serious and imminent” threat that poses “substantial risk to property, life, safety, or health.”
Specifics are still up in the air. The FCC is asking, for instance, whether unveiled caller ID information should only be provided to law enforcement officials investigating a threat, to ensure that this exemption isn’t abused.
The proposal is meant to solve a problem that popped up earlier this year when Jewish Community Centers across the country received a series of anonymous bomb threats that went on for weeks. The FCC granted a temporary exemption to law enforcement at the time, allowing investigators to find out the numbers these anonymous calls came from
But that waiver only applied to the JCC threats. With this proposal, the commission is now hoping to extend it to many future threats that are made over the phone.
At the same time, the commission is also considering another exception to the rules: it might allow private emergency services, like an ambulance company, to unmask anonymous calls so that they can provide help. A similar exemption already exists for public emergency services.
The proposal is still in its early stages. An initial vote will come later this month, after which there’ll be several months for the public to weigh in with comments. The FCC will then finalize its proposal based on that feedback and vote again to enact the rules.
FCC proposals always start out as a series of questions, and in this case, it has quite a few to answer. The commission will have to strike a balance between ensuring the privacy of legitimate anonymous callers and ensuring that law enforcement can access the phone numbers of people who truly are delivering threats.
“Threatening callers do not have a legitimate privacy interest in having blocked caller ID protected from disclosure,” the commission writes. It also notes that this proposal must recognize “the privacy interests of legitimate callers who may have valid reasons to block their telephone numbers.”
While being able to uncover the number behind an anonymous call will certainly be a help for law enforcement, it won’t entirely solve the problem of masked callers. Hackers have been able to hijack phone systems and use those to place calls, meaning the phone number wouldn’t actually link back to them.
Back in April, Verizon launched its prepaid unlimited plan, giving customers the option to talk, text, and use as much data as they want (with a few caveats) for $80 a month. Now it’s tackling the prepaid plans below that threshold, adding data and cutting prices for users.
Verizon’s new prepaid plans will get you 3GB for $40; 7GB for $50; or 10GB for $60. This is an improvement on the current plans which offer 2GB for $40; 5GB for $50; and 10GB for $70.
As with any price cut from Verizon, there are going to be losses for the consumer, and this time it comes in video stream quality. All of Verizon’s new prepaid plans will be limited to video streams of 480p, which isn’t great. The plans do allow for tethering, though, which the prepaid unlimited plan doesn’t offer.
Verizon says the new prepaid plans will be available on June 6th.
Every week, a slew of new music videos hits the web. Watching them at your desk is not time theft because you deserve it; think of it as a nice reward for surviving another work week. But what if you don’t have time to watch every video? Maybe you have a deadline, a hungry pet, or other grown-up concerns. In consideration of your schedule, Lizzie and Kaitlyn bring you a series called One Video. Each week we’ll tell you “one video” you need to watch, why, and for how long.
Lizzie: To earn the coveted One Video slot this week, Travis Scott had to compete with a Foo Fighters video, a Major Lazer lyric video filmed on a GoPro, the hype of this YouTube singer with two first names, and a meme of Scott and his girlfriend, Kylie Jenner. He did earn it, though, delivering us more than seven minutes of video footage and dozens of pairs of Adidas track pants to work with.
The song, “Way Back,” is off Scott’s 2016 album, Birds in the Trap Sing McKnight.
Kaitlyn: The Major Lazer video that Travis Scott beat out also featured Travis Scott, so it was a pretty fierce contest. “Way Back” won because, on top of serving as a visual companion to Scott’s excellent album (which features tunes you likely recognize no matter who you are, such as “goosebumps” and “pick up the phone”), it also functions as a compelling short documentary about the life of James Harden. The best thing about music videos is that they are the most versatile and important art form, and I love them. Happy Friday!
Lizzie: Travis Scott is a rapper who has released two studio albums and a handful of mixtapes. He’s from Houston, and this video’s special guest star, NBA player James Harden, is a point guard for the Houston Rockets.
Kaitlyn: Travis Scott and James Harden are also hanging out with dozens of children, some of them doing cheerleading routines, others of them watching old television sets in a warehouse. It sounds a bit sinister on paper, but if you watch the video you’ll see it’s nice. Scott reminds the children “don’t believe what’s on your TV,” and “don’t you sit close to the TV,” which is good advice, and “look boy, seeing is believing,” which is vague yet inspiring, and a reference to either the Bible or The Polar Express. Harden stands upside down on the ceiling, and everyone believes it because they can see it.
Lizzie: “Way Back” opens with Jimmy Harden watching six television screens at once, all airing coverage of a fan-favorite basketball player, Jimbo himself. He goes to the gym and considers life as a professional athlete, while a bunch of ghost cheerleaders cheer him on.
Kaitlyn: You’ll notice that one of the televisions is playing famous footage of California rapper Lil B, who is best known for following nearly every living person on Twitter, releasing an absurd number of mixtapes, believing in himself, and not getting enough credit for the Lil Yachty phenomenon. The footage in question is from an ESPN appearance from summer 2015, for which Lil B dressed up in a women’s sun hat and earrings to discuss the curse he had placed on James Harden (a punishment for stealing one of Lil B’s dance moves). Lil B has also placed the Golden State Warriors’ Kevin Durant under a curse.
To be clear — and I don’t mean to split hairs and slow you down on your way to watching this incredible music video — it’s actually Lil B’s alter-ego TheBasedGod who inflicts curses. According to Lil B, TheBasedGod is a higher power that only he has access to.
Lizzie: The “Way Back” video functions as a bit of a redemption tour for Harden, who, in Game 6 of a semi-finals series against the Spurs last month, played one of the worst games of his career. He scored only 10 points the entire game, prompting a reporter to ask him, at the post-game press conference, if he was injured. (*sad trombone noise*) The whole thing was so embarrassing Lil B said he was willing to consider lifting his curse.
Jim’s fine y’all! He’s just hanging upside down in a gym while lip-syncing Travis Scott lyrics. He’s fine!
I'm gone #Rockets pic.twitter.com/BzBMfLepCg
Lizzie:  You should watch this video for the amount of time it takes you to forget that Spurs player Manu Ginobili did this to Harden:
MANU! pic.twitter.com/L6IVoW2P3h
Kaitlyn: This video is long. I watched it all the way through out of a sense of responsibility to readers whose favorite website is https://www.theverge.com/one-video, but I will say that the only part I can imagine returning to in the future is 4:41 to 7:00. This is when Travis Scott rides around the city in the backseat of a convertible, wearing a pair of Adidas slide sandals with flames on the sides. I’ll never get tired of summer! Summer forever!
Ever since the DC Extended Universe launched with 2013’s Man of Steel, it’s been troubled and contentious. DC Comics’ attempt at a revitalized, unified superhero film franchise has faced nonstop comparisons with Marvel’s more long-running and critically acclaimed cinematic universe, and it’s consistently come out worse in comparison. Warner Bros.’ DC films (to date: Man of Steel, Batman v Superman, and Suicide Squad) have been dour, sullen, narratively messy, and heavily criticized for their particularly fetishized and unrestrained use of violence. They’ve also been distressingly obsessed with forcing their heroes through protracted existential crises instead of letting them be heroes. (Or, in the case of Suicide Squad, reluctant anti-heroes.)
So the impressive thing about the series’s latest installment, Wonder Woman, isn’t that it abandons this approach. It’s that it embraces and redefines it, making it clear that it’s possible to wallow in the emotional troubles that have defined DCEU movies, and still have fun. Wonder Woman has a lightness and wryness that none of its DC predecessors could claim, but it’s still about philosophical crisis and a hero trying to find an identity. It’s still exploring the DCEU’s favorite themes: whether mankind truly deserves heroes, and whether it’s possible for one person to justly wield immense power. Director Patty Jenkins (Monster) and screenwriter Allan Heinberg explore those themes with a humanity that the franchise’s previous films were lacking. They take their protagonist’s natural superiority for granted, making it a joy instead of a heavy burden. In their hands, Wonder Woman questions her place in the world, but not her inherent identity. And it makes all the difference to the story.
It helps that in this revival of William Moulton Marston’s playful, bondage-obsessed heroine, Wonder Woman — or Diana, as she’s originally known — puts humanity first. Born to an all-female race of Amazons supposedly put on the Earth by Zeus to be a guiding light for humanity, Diana (Gal Gadot) knows from childhood that she wants to be a warrior, and she defies her overprotective mother Hippolyta (Connie Nielsen) at every turn in order to get the training she needs. Martial leader Antiope (Robin Wright) initially tutors her in secret, but Diana becomes a powerful, confident fighter, undermined only by Antiope’s constant insistence that she’s holding back, that she’s more powerful than she realizes.
Her crisis point comes when their magically hidden island of Themyscira is breached, first by fleeing British spy Steve Trevor (Star Trek’s Chris Pine), then by the German soldiers chasing him. Outside of Themyscira’s paradisiacal bubble of protection, World War I has been underway for four years, 25 million people have died, and an armistice is in the works. But an ambitious German general named Ludendorff (Danny Huston, playing an obscure but real historical figure) and his troubled pet scientist, Dr. Maru (The Skin I Live In’s Elena Anaya) are developing a weapon that may change the course of the war. Horrified by Steve’s reports of the war, Diana leaves the island, convinced that the combat was caused by the Amazons’ ancient enemy, Ares, the god of war. She believes if she finds and kills Ares, the Germans will suddenly “become good men again” and stand down.
Wonder Woman represents a number of delicate balancing acts: between humor and gravitas; angst and adventure; full-blown, unvarnished superhero fantasy and the DCEU’s usual unpacking of what those fantasies mean. But its most impressive balancing routine may be the one that plays out between Steve and Diana over whether the Ares myth is real, and whether the histories of gods, Amazons, and magical hidden islands have any place in the modern world. The movie’s opening act on Themyscira is outsized and mythic, but once the story returns to Steve’s familiar, grubby world, Wonder Woman seems like a surreal figure, a children’s story brought to life. The people who see Diana seem to recognize that she’s larger than life, no less startling than a unicorn walking through 1918 London. “I’m both frightened and aroused,” Steve’s buddy Sameer (Saïd Taghmaoui) grumbles, watching her casually respond to a bar fight.
And yet there are no heroes yet in their world, so the characters have a strong urge to treat Diana as just another strikingly beautiful woman — in other words, to protect her, sideline her, and politely diminish her. And without making a fuss about it, she is in no way willing to be diminished. She’s a fish out of water in 1918 London, which gives Wonder Woman a fair number of comedy pegs and opportunities for banter — and also its strongest feminist leanings, as Steve tries to control and contain Diana, and she shrugs him off and does whatever makes sense to her instead. But she’s also the ultimate home-schooled kid, confidently operating under assumptions that have never come up against real-world facts. Wonder Woman gets its philosophical bent from the conflict between her pure, untested idealism and the actual gruesome realities of war, and it finds rich ground in the gap between them.
It also gives the movie a fascinating yet low-key narrative tension, as Diana and Steve try to carry out a spy mission while operating under radically different worldviews: he wants to stop a German weapons program, she wants to stab a god. Wonder Woman continually finds the strain between a mundane worldview and a supernatural, superheroic one, and questions what that strain would do to the people trying to navigate it.
Jenkins has talked extensively in the media about the difficulties of directing a film with such high stakes for women filmmakers and female superheroes — Wonder Woman is being hyped as a litmus test for whether modern cinema audiences will pack theaters to watch a superhero movie with a woman protagonist, and whether a woman director can bring the blockbuster action. But while Wonder Woman is supremely calculated in its gender politics and its gender role reversals, the question of how a female hero sees the world winds up being less interesting than the question of how an entirely self-assured hero sees it. The DCEU’s Batman and Superman are both tormented by their solitude and their histories; as a one-of-a-kind being, Wonder Woman takes her solitude for granted, and her history is almost entirely of her own choosing. Her femininity is part of the story, for the way it makes even the other heroes in the movie underestimate and discount her. But her gender is never the story’s primary thrust.
Instead, Wonder Woman focuses on the horrors of war, the pleasures of camaraderie, and plain, old-fashioned superheroics. The DCEU’s Batman tortures criminals and tries to murder Superman, while Superman himself accidentally destroys cities, and is forced to murder villains. Wonder Woman simply fights injustice and saves lives. It is, frankly, a relief.
Wonder Woman has its inevitable faults. The villains often seem too distant and disconnected from the action, which is ultimately more about Diana coming to terms with war than coming to terms with specific warmongers. The film spends a questionable amount of time on bringing in Steve’s old war buddies, a collection of half-realized, colorful scoundrels who don’t add much to the story except extra voices, and who come across as a weirdly watered-down version of Captain America’s already vaguely sketched Howling Commandoes. Sameer, Charlie (Trainspotting’s Ewen Bremner), and Chief (Eugene Brave Rock) are so thinly drawn, they come across as franchise cameos, being set up for their own feature outing while not having enough to do in this one. They provide some opportunities for pathos and self-examination, especially when Chief admits that he’s a war profiteer because he sees no other choice for a Native American booted from his land. But they’re billed as a collection of special talents that barely come into play.
And Jenkins falls into the same traps that have plagued superhero movies since the beginning of the new millennium: no matter how much thought and humanity went into the bulk of the film, the ending ultimately replaces most of the characters with CGI avatars, and drops the nuance in favor of sheer volume, piled-on explosions, and some particularly silly shouting about love. When a movie this carefully considered suddenly leaps into Fifth Element territory, the nosedive comes hard.
But so much of Wonder Woman finds the potential the DC movies have always had in their heroes. The action is crisp and thrilling, but more importantly, it’s meaningful. It’s carried out in support of a cause the audience can appreciate, by someone trying to protect civilians instead of ignoring them. For once, the DCEU has a hero who’s expressing an ethos instead of fuming and suffering over it. In fierceness and sheer badass fighting prowess, Wonder Woman is a match for the other heroes in her franchise. But in courage and certainty, she tops all of them. She represents the direction her cinematic series should be taking. She isn’t leaving behind existential questions. She’s just playing out a story where those questions can be meaningfully addressed, not just with rage and suffering, but with courage, conviction, and even humor. Batman, Superman, and the Suicide Squad asked the questions about what heroism means. Wonder Woman finally answers those questions definitively, and it’s a tremendous win for a franchise that desperately needed one.
On November 13th, 2010, marine biologist Austin Gallagher was out on a boat in the Florida Keys, when he and his team pulled an 8-foot-long tiger shark on board to tag it with a satellite tracker. Gallagher was straddling the shark to take measurements, when all of a sudden, “I just saw a huge plume of feathers explode on the back of the boat,” he says.
The shark had just puked a bunch of 8- to 9-inch-long feathers. Gallagher couldn’t believe his luck. He’d heard of sharks vomiting when they’re in high-stress situations, but he’d never seen one before. “Oh my god, this finally happened to me,” Gallagher recalls thinking. “I probably had a huge smile on my face.”
See, when sharks are stressed out, they barf — and not just food. Sometimes they puke out their entire stomachs. That happened to a 6-foot-long blue shark that beached in Provincetown, Massachusetts, a couple years ago, for example — and this is what it looked like.
Why? Why do sharks do this? Well, some sharks — like tiger sharks — are voracious eaters that pretty much gobble down whatever they find, including things that aren’t very digestible, like bird feathers, turtles shells, or other bones. If a shark finds itself in a high-stress situation — hooked up to fishing gear, for instance, or stranded on a beach — its instinct reaction is to get rid of that foreign, hard-to-digest food right away.
It might be easier to escape on an empty stomach, says Neil Hammerschlag, a shark researcher at the University of Miami. (Snakes, for instance, are also pukers — they’re known for regurgitating big meals if put under sudden stress after eating.) It’s just a stress response, says Gregory Skomal, a senior scientist at Massachusetts Marine Fisheries, just like a pregnant shark tangled in fishing nets might abort its fetus.
Being lifted up on a boat and held down while someone’s taking measurements isn’t exactly your regular, laid-back swim in the ocean — it’s pretty stressful. So it’s not exactly unusual for biologists like Gallagher to encounter shark barf; in fact, he says he’s observed puke from a dozen to two dozen tiger sharks. One in the Bahamas hocked up “amazing stuff,” including huge lobster claws, king crabs, feathers, and the beak of a sea turtle. “That all came out of one tiger shark,” he says.
But why do sharks barf out their entire stomachs? (This has a scientific name, by the way, and it’s called stomach or gastric eversion.) Apparently, it’s just a way for the sharks to cleanse their stomachs. “It’s basically rinsing it out,” Skomal says. A 2005 paper describing such behavior in a Caribbean reef shark seems to confirm that, saying that sharks do this to remove “indigestible food particles, parasites or mucus.”
In fact, rays — which are closely related to sharks — are also known for hurling their stomachs to rinse them out, to remove “noxious material,” according to a 2000 study published in Nature. Don’t worry, both rays and sharks survive the procedure. In the case of the Caribbean reef shark described in the 2005 paper, the animal retracted its stomach back into its body in less than a second and seemed to be doing just fine. You can see it in this video, by the way:
Some sharks are not as lucky, however. Gallagher says he’s experienced some sharks throwing up their stomach while he was taking measurements. In those cases, he’s helped put the stomachs back into the animals using long objects like pliers, for instance. (Gallagher confirmed he would never do that using his own arm.)
Hammerschlag says he once experienced something even wilder: he was swimming in False Bay, South Africa, when he saw a white shark spew a seal it’d just eaten after being approached by a larger white shark from behind. Maybe the smaller shark was startled? Maybe it didn’t want to get into a fight with the larger shark? In any case, it decided to retch up the seal and then swim away. The larger shark then ate the seal.
“It’s pretty extraordinary, it’s nature in the raw,” Hammerschlag says. “It’s like watching the most amazing documentary, instead you’re kind of living it.”
White sharks have also been observed puking to make room for more food. This reminds me of the ancient Romans, who were (wrongly) thought to use vomitoriums to barf after a lavish meal so they could eat more. The white sharks — as described in a 2013 paper published in PLoS One by both Hammerschlag and Gallagher — were feasting on baleen whale carcasses off the coast of South Africa: they “would routinely regurgitate large chunks of whale blubber only to immediately return to the carcass and feed once again,” the study says.
The sharks’ motivation wasn’t gluttony, however. Instead, they were probably using the complex sensory structure inside their mouths to assess the quality of the food — if the whale part they’ve just eaten doesn’t meet their standards, they’ll disgorge it in favor of eating a better chunk of meat, says Hammerschlag. That’s pretty rad.
Unfortunately, this type of behavior is rarely spotted, and so it’s hard to confirm exactly why it happens. That’s why Gallagher was so excited when he first experienced the tiger shark puke the bird feathers. (“I guess I’m the shark vomit guy!” Gallagher says.)
“These really unique instances ... provide us insights into the secret lives of these animals,” he says. “I kind of felt honored that I’d finally been able to see something like that.”
Taking a decent photo on your smartphone is easier than ever, but if you want to graduate to the next level with a DSLR or mirrorless camera, there’s a lot more to think about. Factors range from focus to shutter speed, aperture to ISO, color range and more, and knowing how to balance them all requires practice. Now, though, a gadget named Arsenal — currently raising funds on Kickstarter — claims it can do all the hard work for you, taking the perfect photograph every time.
Think of it like a supercharged version of the “auto” mode in any point-and-click camera. These auto functions adjust just one or two settings (like changing the exposure based on how bright the scene is) but Arsenal examines far more — looking at 18 separate factors in total. Most significantly, it also uses neural networks to recognize the scene you’re looking at and compare it to a database of professional photographs. It then takes the camera settings used to capture these images and applies them to your camera. You can tweak them to your liking, then take the shot.
Ryan Stout, the creator of Arsenal, told The Verge over email that he thinks his product fills a gap in the market. Stout says camera companies have underinvested in auto modes as they’re usually disdained by pro photographers (for good reason, he notes). This means, Stout says, they haven’t kept up with the advances possible using AI and new hardware.
“Arsenal is one of those products that shouldn't need to exist, but the camera companies have left some really low-hanging fruit,” he says. Stout thinks the Arsenal will appeal to beginner and intermediate photographers who want to make the leap from phone photography, but are finding it difficult to get good shots with their DSLR. “Some of that is composition, obviously, but I noticed a while ago that settings played a big role in that as well,” Stout says.
To create the Arsenal, Stout trained a number of a convolutional neural networks (or CNNs) to analyze images. CNNs are also used by self-driving cars to scan the road, but instead of looking for things like pedestrians and road signs, the ones built in to the Arsenal look for features and scenery like waves, faces, and snow. Stout says he drew on a number of public datasets to train basic feature recognition for his neural nets, and then used high-quality photos taken from Flickr to teach the Arsenal what good camera settings looked like.
This information is combined with sensors built into the gadget, including a vibration-sensing accelerometer that can tell whether the camera is on a tripod or held in the hand. (For more information on the factors Arsenal examines, you can check out this blog post from Stout or watch this video demo using a prototype.) The gadget itself looks like a slim battery pack and clips into the hot shoe mount on top of a camera. It connects via Bluetooth to an iOS and Android app, which can also be used to create time-lapses and long-exposure shots.
Of course, when it comes to a gadget like this, the proof is very much in the pudding. We’ll have to see what type of shots the Arsenal can produce to find out if it’s worth the $150 price tag. But Stout certainly seems correct in suggesting that there’s an eager audience waiting for this technology. At the time of writing, his Kickstarter campaign has attracted more than $700,000 from backers — way over the $50,000 goal. It might not be long before mainstream camera companies also decide this sort of tech is worth a shot.
Do you want to keep your photos for a long time, and make some of them widely available? Or do you want them to be more ephemeral, something you can give to a friend and maybe never see again?
Consciously or not, we ask these questions a lot when trying to decide whether to use Snapchat or Instagram. But they're also swirling at the core of the new Fujifilm Instax Square SQ10.
In many ways, the $279 SQ10 is just like the Instax cameras that came before it. It captures and prints instant photos. It’s fun to use, and people love to interact with it. It still looks a bit like a toy, but it’s also the most polished Instax camera Fujifilm has ever made.
There are two big differences, though. One is that the SQ10 shoots on a new square format of Instax film. The other is that it’s now simultaneously a digital camera, too. These changes are supposed to help Fujifilm — which stands nearly alone in the instant film category — keep selling Instax cameras in the age of Instagram. But, if anything, the company might not have taken that second idea far enough.
First thing’s first: the new square instant film sits right in between Fujifilm’s other two options. It’s a little bit bigger than the Instax Mini, but not quite as big as the Instax Wide. Goldilocks would be proud.
I’ve always liked the cinematic look of Instax Wide, but Instax Square feels more familiar. It’s, perhaps obviously, reminiscent of its ancestor — Polaroid’s instant film. And, despite recently granting some wiggle room by finally allowing landscape and portrait uploads, Instagram is still all about squares, so Fujifilm is trying to cash in on a similar look. (Instax Square film is also Fujifilm’s most expensive format at $17 per pack.)
The SQ10 has a hard time nailing the exposure if you’re in a situation with extremely varied lighting, like in harsh, low sunlight with heavy shadows. Otherwise, the film is as good as it’s always been. It favors rich colors and lots of contrast over fidelity, which has always been the case with instant (and especially Instax) film. It doesn’t perform well in low light alone, but the camera’s flash is more than capable. It’s powerful, but it doesn’t overpower the scene, and it helped me catch some of my favorite photos with the camera. Coming from someone who typically never uses flash, it was a nice surprise.
The SQ10’s blockbuster feature, though, is that it’s also a digital camera, but don’t expect it to compete with the photography experience of a DSLR, or even your smartphone. It uses a 3.7-megapixel CMOS sensor, which is puny by today’s standards. And while the images it captures look good enough printed on a piece of instant film, the digital copies are low-resolution, flat, and often uninspiring. With a little work, they might look fine on Instagram — just know that you’ll have some trouble getting them there. (More on that in a minute.)
There are essentially two ways to shoot with the SQ10, which you pick by way of a toggle switch on the camera’s left side. “Auto” mode means the camera will operate just like all the other Instax — a print will pop out every time you click the shutter.
“Manual” mode is where the camera deviates from the typical Instax experience. It doesn’t mean manual focus, or manual exposure. Rather, the SQ10’s manual mode means you’re only shooting digital images. You can stuff about 50 photos into the small amount of onboard storage, or you can insert a microSD card. (The 32GB card I was using had room for well over 20,000 photos, thanks to the tiny 800–900KB files that the camera creates.)
The behavior of shooting in manual mode is totally new, and there are good and bad sides to it. What’s wonderful, if you’re a control freak like me, is that you now have final say on what the printed photo looks like — not just because you can take a shot over and over to get it right, but also because the camera has 10 creative filters plus an exposure and a vignette tool. You can return to any saved photo and re-edit it to your heart’s desire, which is a nice change of pace for Instax.
The most dumbfounding thing about the SQ10 is that it has no wireless radios. Because of this, you can’t print photos from your phone like with Fujifilm’s Instax Share printer, and it also means it’s a chore to get the camera’s digital files onto your phone. In order to do that, you have to take the microSD card out, stick it in an adapter, plug that into your computer, and then transfer them to your phone. For a camera that’s supposedly all about the Instagram generation, it’s awfully disconnected from Instagram.
Now, do I need digital photos from a camera like this? Definitely not, considering I have a smartphone and a plethora of other digital cameras. One bright side to the SQ10 is that you aren’t wasting moments worrying about which photos to post to Instagram that would otherwise be spent shooting with the camera. And considering people tend to use Instax cameras at parties or when hanging out with friends, that’s probably a good thing. We definitely don’t need another distracting connected device in those situations.
But I also don’t need another graveyard for my images. If the camera is going to save these photos, I’d like to do something with them at some point, and I’d like that process to be easier than it is now.
There’s a more elemental problem with the SQ10’s digital DNA, though. Once people know it’s digital, they react much differently than they do to other Instax cameras. They become more focused on fixing their appearance, and they want to approve the photo before you print it or make sure you delete it.
When you shoot with other Instax cameras, people are typically aware that their attention is precious. It’s like they inherently understand that they’d be half-assing their way through posing for a photo with real costs associated with it. Shooting digital-first with the SQ10, I found they tended to treat the process more like the pose / shoot / review / repeat way of casually photographing each other that has become the norm with smartphones. In this sense, Fujifilm really did make a camera that caters to the Instagram generation — just not in a good way.
Despite all this, the SQ10 can still delight. It generates the same joy that typically comes with shooting instant photos. People get genuinely excited every time the camera prints a picture. They all want to be the one who gets to keep the photo, too. The difference with the SQ10 is that it’s the first instant camera that can accommodate that desire.
It's also now easier than ever to try out creative shooting modes like double exposure or long shutter. Modes like these demand trial and error, and that typically means spending more money and film. But the SQ10 lets you try and try until you’re happy enough to print. The camera accommodates all this repeated shooting, too. I found the battery can get through days of shooting, editing, and printing before it needs to be recharged.
Because the camera’s digital files are so low-resolution, and so hard to access, these wind up being the real benefits of its hybrid nature. And since the digital side of the SQ10 is pretty low-tech, the performance is brisk. It’s not as fast as shooting and reviewing with a smartphone, but it boots up in about two seconds, the autofocus is fast (even in somewhat challenging light), and it shoots quickly, too.
I always thought adding digital components to an Instax camera would make me want to buy one. But Fujifilm didn’t take the idea far enough with the SQ10. It’s basically a bad digital camera with a less capable Instax Share printer attached. Sure, it offers a means for capturing relatively low-resolution backups of your instant photos. Digital functionality also means the SQ10 is the first Instax camera you can constantly use without going broke. That’s a step in the right direction. But the digital photos just aren’t as valuable if there’s no easy way for the user to do something with them.
Fujifilm got a lot right with the SQ10. The design is sharp, and I love the way it feels to grip and shoot. The interface is quick and fun, and the printed photos look just as good as ever. Those are largely the same things that already made Fujifilm’s analog Instax cameras great, though.
Until the company makes a connected version of this camera, the SQ10’s only real advantages are the ability to edit pictures and make multiple prints of the same photo. The idea of a digital / film hybrid camera is a fun one full of possibilities. But the camera won’t be able to bear those out as long as the execution is half-baked. Maybe future Instax cameras will be more connected or more powerful. For now, though, it’s still very much about the printed picture.

With fast cars, silly stunts, and a seemingly endless string of sequels, Need for Speed already had a claim to be the gaming world's Fast and the Furious, even going so far as to lend its name to a markedly similar movie. But new game in the series — Need for Speed: Payback, announced today — makes that connection even clearer.
Payback promises the kind of car fetishizing that previous Need for Speeds have delivered, but also adds a more significant story element, with the "blockbuster" plot apparently "fueled by a gripping story of betrayal and revenge." Rather than taking the wheel as unnamed racers, players of the new Need For Speed will squirm their hands into the driving gloves of three characters: Tyler, Mac, or Jess. (Or, "the Racer," "the Showman," and "the Wheelman," to give them their proper honorifics.)
This trio are up against "The House," a cartel that controls everything in the city of Fortune Valley, including its cops and casinos. The Fast and Furious link goes even deeper than just following a ragtag bunch of racers as they whizz through underground street races, though — Payback also has a renewed focus on car customization that EA says will let players "truly craft a personalized and unique ride," and turn an old banger into a supercar.
Need for Speed: Payback is due out on Xbox One, PS4, and PC on November 10th, but EA Access and Origin Access subscribers will get a headstart, with 10 hours of the game becoming available through the services on November 2nd.
It’s June again, so it’s time for Apple to give the world a look at what it’s been up to and what we should expect from the iPhone, the Mac, and everything in between in the months to come.
On Monday, Apple will kick off this year’s Worldwide Developers Conference with a keynote presentation where, like every year, the company’s top executives will take the stage to talk about their next big releases. Traditionally, WWDC has been a software show, with a heavy focus on iOS and macOS (and, recently, tvOS and watchOS as well). But this year, there have been rumblings that we should expect some hardware news too — including at least one brand new product — which could make the event even more interesting than usual.
The keynote starts at 1PM ET / 10AM PT on June 5th. The Verge will be reporting live from San Jose, so be sure to come back then for all the news.
For now, here’s our guide on what to expect on Monday. There haven’t been a ton of leaks this year, so while we have some ideas of what Apple’s planning, there should still be plenty of surprises in store.
Here’s something we can expect in pretty good confidence: Apple will announce the next iterations of iOS, macOS, tvOS, and watchOS. All four of Apple’s big platforms are on yearly release cycles, with announcements in June, developer previews shortly thereafter, and public releases in the fall. This year shouldn’t be any different.
But what should we expect from each of them? That’s where it gets a bit trickier.
iOS design updates: Bloomberg reported last month that iOS 11 would have “an updated user interface,” though it didn’t offer any details beyond that. One possibility: Apple appears to be working on a “dark mode” for the entire operating system, which changes most backgrounds from white to black. That wouldn’t just be for visual flair. If Apple introduces an OLED iPhone, as it’s rumored to this fall, a dark mode would save battery by letting the screen keep more pixels turned off — much like what the Apple Watch does.
More stylus support: Bloomberg also said we may see updates for the iPad based around the Pencil. Apple might update its apps, like Mail and Safari, to allow the stylus to be used for annotations. It could even go further, mimicking the kind of mark up anything-and-everything abilities that Samsung has given its S Pen styluses.
Pro iPad features: There’s a lot Apple can do to improve the iPad’s multitasking to really offer a pro experience on the iPad Pro; a native version of this this drag-and-drop feature would be a good start. I’m also strongly hoping this is the year we finally see support for multiple user accounts — it’s a frustrating omission, but Apple began laying the groundwork for the feature last year.
Lots of app updates: Apple’s other big story is likely to be app upgrades — looking back to last year, some of iOS’s biggest changes came through apps like iMessage and Photos. It’d be surprising not to see Apple continue that push this year, especially with how successful its changes to iMessage have been.
A way to pay your friends: A recent Recode report says Apple has been weighing a peer-to-peer payments service that would compete with the likes of Venmo and Square Cash, but it’s unclear whether that would be a feature of Apple Pay or whether it would exist as a cash-exchange feature in iMessage (or both).
Something to watch in Apple Music: Apple is typically dead quiet when it comes to what it’s working on. Jimmy Iovine, however, is another story. And it seems like Iovine may have let it slip to Bloomberg that Apple Music will be reworked this year to better feature video. That’s good timing, since Apple’s first original shows are coming out soon. Carpool Karaoke arrives August 8th, and we may hear about Planet of the Apps on Monday.
Siri gets smarter: Apple’s digital assistant has been getting one-upped and lapped and probably three other equivalent sports metaphors in the past couple years. If Apple wants to take on the Amazon Echoes and Google Homes of the world — and it sure sounds like it does — Siri is going to need to do a better jobs of connecting to third party apps and surfacing information for you. It seems likely Apple will start to make more of that happen this year.
Small changes to macOS: Apple hasn’t made big changes to macOS in years (aside from its name), but it’ll certainly keep polishing away and adding new features here and there, with many likely inside Apple-made apps like Mail. Siri was introduced last year, and it could get more powerful this year — last year, it was missing third-party support.
Improvements to watchOS and tvOS: Apple’s two youngest operating systems have been getting very useful and occasionally dramatic changes year to year. There’s no word on what to expect this time around, but it’d be a surprise if we didn’t see Apple keep iterating on the basic experience of using both operating systems. WatchOS still needs work on how it displays apps, and Apple is still figuring out how rework the classic TV guide with tvOS.
In an interview with The Verge in February, Apple TV executive Eddy Cue suggested that the future of web TV would be much more “interactive,” so it’s possible that any software changes could allow app developers to create more interactive apps. And according to a recent report from BuzzFeed News, Amazon Prime Video will finally run on Apple TV, something that Apple TV users have been wanting for years.
Apple talks hardware every now and then during WWDC, and it seems like 2017 is going to be one of those years. Potentially, a big one.
Siri speaker: Apple’s answer to the Amazon Echo and Google Home may well be announced on Monday. What’ll it do? What’ll it look like? Pretty much all of that is speculation for now — there’s even disagreement over whether or not it’ll have a screen.
The speaker is one reason to expect updates to Siri this year, as you can bet that Apple will want to let app developers take advantage of this new device. (It’s unveiling the product at a developer conference, after all.) You can imagine Apple adopting a similar model to how it distributes apps for watchOS, where developers can build Siri features into their core mobile app.
There are a few basic details we do know so far. Bloomberg said recently that Apple has started manufacturing the speaker and that it’ll feature “virtual surround sound” to provide better audio quality. It’ll also function as a hub for HomeKit, Apple’s smart home system. That’s likely to be a highlight for the product.
It’s not clear if Apple has any big features up its sleeve that make its smart speaker stand out from the competition. But tight integration with Apple’s ecosystem of products may be enough. If you already have an iPhone, Apple’s upcoming product may be the easiest smart speaker to get started with.
A new iPad size: This one seems a little bit less certain, but the reliable Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo says that Apple’s been working on a 10.5-inch iPad Pro and will likely introduce it at WWDC. The new model is supposed to be about the same size as the existing 9.7-inch iPad Pro, but it’ll be able to fit a larger screen by narrowing down the device’s bezels. WWDC would be unusual timing for an iPad Pro launch, but Apple released a surprise update of the standard iPad in March, so perhaps it’s just putting them out as they come.
Updated MacBooks and MacBook Pros: Nothing major here, but it’s time for Apple’s laptops to get some spec bumps. Intel has a new line of processors out — Kaby Lake — and Apple should update its laptops to support them, offering a little bit more power and little bit more battery life. There’s also rumors that the MacBook Pro could get an option for more RAM, though that might still be down the road.
A depressing update for the MacBook Air: It’s been two years since Apple updated the MacBook Air, and it certainly looks like the company would happily watch its former star wither away and die. But apparently, sales have remained strong — it’s Apple’s only laptop under $1,000 — and Bloomberg reports that it’s likely to receive an update to include Kaby Lake processors, too.
That won’t do much to modernize the laptop — the Air’s screen, in particular, is now low-resolution and outdated — but it’ll justify the laptop staying around and provide a bit more value for anyone who’s still interested. There’s been some suggestion the Air could get updated to USB-C too, but that’d require more work on Apple’s part, so it wouldn’t be a huge surprise to see everything but the processor stay the same.
What we (probably) won’t see: iPhones are off the table. iMacs could use new processors, but there’s no word on that yet. And while Apple has promised a new Mac Pro, that likely isn’t arriving until at least next year. It’s always possible Apple will talk about its plans for a new pro machine, but a release is a long ways out. The Apple Watch will likely be updated this fall; and while a 4K Apple TV is said to be in the works, there’s no sign it’s coming this month.
Facebook has ramped up efforts to combat hate speech in Europe and is now in compliance with voluntary guidelines agreed to last year, the European Commission (EC) said this week, but Twitter and YouTube are still lagging behind.
In a report published Thursday, the EC said tech companies have made “significant progress” in complying with a voluntary “code of conduct” to review the majority of hate speech complaints within 24 hours. Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Microsoft signed on to the code of conduct in May 2016. European lawmakers are currently considering legislation that would require tech companies to block videos that contain hate speech or terrorist propaganda, as part of a broader effort to curb illegal speech online. Such proposals have raised concerns from digital rights groups who fear that they could infringe on free speech.
An EC evaluation published in December 2016 found that tech companies were still failing to comply with the code of conduct, noting that just 40 percent of reported material was reviewed within 24 hours, and just 28 percent of flagged content was removed. Six months later, the companies have reviewed 51 percent of reported content within 24 hours, and removal rates increased to 59 percent, according to the report released this week. The EC’s findings were first reported by The New York Times on Wednesday.
"The results of our second evaluation of the code of conduct are encouraging,” EU Justice Commissioner Vĕra Jourová said in a statement Thursday. “The companies are now removing twice as many cases of illegal hate speech and at a faster rate when compared to six months ago. This is an important step in the right direction and shows that a self-regulatory approach can work, if all actors do their part.”
Facebook is the only company that currently complies with the code of conduct, according to the EC. The company reviewed nearly 58 percent of flagged content within 24 hours — up from 50 percent in December — compared to 42.6 percent for YouTube and 39 percent for Twitter. Twitter has accelerated its moderation procedures since December, when the EC found that it reviewed just 23.5 percent of reported content within the 24-hour time frame. But YouTube has seen its rate fall; in December, the Google-owned site reviewed 60.8 percent of flagged content within 24 hours.
The report also highlights “a large disparity” in how social media companies provide feedback to those who report hate speech. According to the EC, Facebook provided feedback in 93.7 percent of reported cases, compared to 32.8 percent for Twitter and 20.7 percent for YouTube. Xenophobic and anti-Muslim content were the most commonly reported, accounting for a combined 34 percent of notifications, followed by content targeting ethnic origin (15.8 percent).
“Over the past six months, we've introduced a host of new tools and features to improve Twitter for everyone,” Karen White, Twitter's head of public policy for Europe, said in a statement to Reuters. “We’ve also improved the in-app reporting process for our users and we continue to review and iterate on our policies and their enforcement. Our work will never be 'done.'"
Juniper Downs, head of public policy at YouTube, tells Reuters that the company has “learned a lot from” the EC’s code of conduct “and will continue to invest heavily in people and systems to address these issues.”
Tech companies have been facing increased pressure to curb hate speech across Europe. Germany is currently considering a law that would impose fines of up to €50 million ($56.1 million) on companies that fail to quickly remove hateful content, while UK Prime Minister Theresa May expressed support for a similar measure following the Manchester terrorist attack last month.



It’s Friday morning and everyone’s already eager to clock off from work, including astronauts Oleg Novitskiy and Thomas Pesquet, who will depart the International Space Station and head back to Earth just before 7AM ET. You can watch them do so live in the stream above, with the undocking procedure of their Soyuz capsule expected to start around 6:30AM. If all goes according to schedule, the craft containing Novitskiy and Pesquet will perform its routine de-orbit burn at 9:17AM (firing the engines to slow the craft’s approach) before the pair land back on terra firma at roughly 10:10AM. How’s that for a commute home.
Pesquet (of the European Space Agency) and Novitskiy (of Russian space agency Roscosmos) have been on the ISS for a total of 196 days. They blasted up to the station along with NASA astronaut Peggy Whitson as the crew of Expedition 51 back in November 2016 and even celebrated Pesquet’s birthday on board (see below). But due to downsizing from Roscosmos (the agency is temporarily reducing the number of cosmonauts it stations on the ISS from three to two) Whitson will not be accompanying the pair on their journey back to Earth.
Instead, she’ll stay until September, extending her residency and furthering a record she set in April — spending more hours in space than any other US astronaut. In a statement in April she said: “I love being up here. Living and working aboard the space station is where I feel like I make the greatest contribution, so I am constantly trying to squeeze every drop out of my time here. Having three more months to squeeze is just what I would wish for.” Novitskiy and Pesquet would presumably feel similar, but I’ll bet they’re also happy to be heading back home. TGIF.
You know just from using a laptop that computers give off a lot of excess heat. For data centers containing tens of thousands of servers, this is a big problem, wasting energy and money. To try and mitigate this, companies have experimented with moving facilities to near the Arctic Circle and even submerging servers underwater. But Dutch startup Nerdalize has a different approach. Rather than trying to dissipate excess energy from servers, it wants to harness it, using it to heat people’s homes instead.
The setup is simple enough: you pay Nerdalize to install a server in your home; it heats your house for free; and Nerdalize makes money by selling the server space to other companies. Back in 2015, the company unveiled its first product — a standalone wall heater powered by a single server that was used in a year-long pilot in five households. The heaters were slow, taking about an hour to warm up, and fairly weak, only providing enough heat for a small room. But they worked. And Nerdalize is now moving on to a second pilot that integrates its sever-heat more tightly with customer’s homes.
Starting in August, Nerdalize plans to equip 42 Dutch households with servers to heat their water supply, providing, it says, hot showers using nothing more than data. (Well, data, and piping-hot silicon.) The company says its setup will save customers €300 a year ($336) while costing companies 50 percent less for data services. Each installation also takes three tons of CO2 away from a household’s carbon footprint. Nerdalize says it’s a “win-win-win” scenario, and has launched a crowdfunding campaign to expand the project. Its reached its initial goal of €250,000, and is now aiming to raise half a million euros.
It’s an ambitious project, and one that just sounds so clever, killing a number of inefficiencies at a single stroke. However, there are lot of unresolved questions about Nerdalize’s plans. Like, will companies be happy about having their data sitting in people’s houses? And how will customers feel when they need to let an engineer in to fix their malfunctioning servers? And, more simply, will the whole business plan even be sustainable at scale? It seems for Nerdalize that the proof is in the pudding, as it continues to put its technology in more houses.
If you work in technology there’s often a joke about someone tripping over the power cord whenever a server goes down. It appears that joke became reality for British Airways last weekend. British Airways flights were disrupted worldwide due to a power supply issue in the company’s main datacenter, with 75,000 passengers affected by canceled flights. The Times reports that the datacenter shutdown was triggered by a contractor accidentally switching off the power supply.
British Airways was forced to cancel all flights from Heathrow and Gatwick in London over a popular public holiday weekend, as all of the company’s IT systems were affected. An investigation will now take place, but will likely focus on human error rather than equipment failure. British Airways will also have to answer why the company wasn’t better prepared for power supply issues, especially after being accused of cost-cutting and outsourcing IT jobs. The Guardian reports that British Airways now faces a compensation bill of more than £100 million ($128 million) for the chaos caused by the power supply problems.
US visa applicants may be required to disclose any social media handles, email addresses, and phone numbers used over the previous five years, under new procedures approved by the Trump administration. As Reuters reports, a new questionnaire for visa applicants was approved by the Office of Management and Budget on May 23rd, after receiving sharp criticism during a public comment period.
The procedures allow consular officials to request 15 years worth of personal information — including applicants’ previous addresses, employment history, and travel records — in addition to the social media data. More than 50 academic groups criticized the proposed screening procedures in a letter to the State Department earlier this month, writing that the protocol would fuel “uncertainties and confusion” that may discourage students and researchers from coming to the US.
The new questions are described as voluntary, though applicants who do not disclose additional information may see their processing delayed or halted, according to the questionnaire. A State Department official tells Reuters that the additional information will be requested if officials determine that it “is required to confirm identity or conduct more rigorous national security vetting.”
Previously, the State Department said that the questions pertaining to social media use, emails, and phone numbers would only apply to applicants “who have been determined to warrant additional scrutiny in connection with terrorism or other national security-related visa ineligibilities.” Earlier this year, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson ordered a “mandatory social media check” for all visa applicants who visited ISIS-controlled territory, as part of the “extreme vetting” that Trump vowed to implement when campaigning for president.
More than 200 people commented on the proposal during the public comment period, which ended on May 18th. The majority of comments were negative, Reuters reported last month.

Microsoft was forced to apologize late last night after a mistake led to some confidential and internal Windows 10 builds being released to the public. “Builds from some of our internal branches were accidentally released for PC and Mobile,” reveals Dona Sarkar, Microsoft’s head of its Windows Insiders program. “This happened because an inadvertent deployment to the engineering system that controls which builds / which rings to push out to insiders.”
Microsoft says it quickly reverted the issue and put blocks in place to ensure these development builds didn’t reach more people, but a “small portion” of Windows 10 users still received them. Worryingly, the accidental mobile build even reached retail devices outside of Microsoft’s Windows Insiders testing. If Windows 10 testers installed the mobile build it forced phones into a reboot loop and bricked the device. Testers will have to recover and wipe the device using the Windows Device Recovery Tool.
Windows 10 testers that installed the PC build, an internal Edge branch, will have to wait for Microsoft to publish a newer build or roll back using the recovery option in Windows 10 settings. “We apologize for this inconvenience and thank you for being a Windows Insider,” says Sarkar. Microsoft says it won’t be releasing any new builds this week, presumably as it’s working to ensure this surprising mistake doesn’t occur again.
Snap is bringing Spectacles to Europe nearly seven months after debuting them in the US. The camera-equipped sunglasses will be available online through spectacles.com or through the company’s Snapbot vending machines, which will be in London (under the London Eye), Paris, Berlin, Barcelona, and Venice starting today. A pair will cost  £129.99 / €149.99.
Snap says more than 55 million people use Snapchat daily in Europe for at least 30 minutes a day. I’m going to assume they all won’t rush out today to get a pair, thereby recreating the insane hype of the US release. But still, never forget that pairs once went for hundreds of dollars on eBay.
Snap hinted at releasing Spectacles abroad in February after it launched its US online store and filed with the SEC for its IPO. The company said at the time that it planned “to make substantial investments” in marketing and distribution this year. We’ll hopefully see how successful this strategy is when Snap issues its next earnings report.

Anything Uber can do, Waymo — Alphabet's self-driving car company that was spun off from Google — can apparently do, too. BuzzFeed News reports that Waymo is testing its own autonomous truck technology, a year after Uber purchased trucking startup Otto and kicked off its own self-driving semi venture.
BuzzFeed says it first spotted Waymo's self-driving truck in a photo, before confirming the project with the company. A Waymo spokesperson explained the company's efforts, saying that it was "taking our eight years of experience in building self-driving hardware and software and conducting a technical exploration into how our technology can integrate into a truck." Safety was the focus of the expansion into the sector, the spokesperson said, with the aim of reducing the "thousands of trucking-related deaths each year."
Waymo and Uber have rapidly become fierce rivals, but the Google spinoff isn't as far along in the self-driving truck sphere as the ride-sharing firm. Waymo confirmed that it was only testing one vehicle at the moment, and that it was still manually driving it on a public road in order to collect data. Uber, on the other hand, delivered its first shipment in a self-driving freight vehicle last August, a short time after it bought Otto. The company's had its problems with the project — the vehicles were accused of breaking California driving laws — but it has also had more time to test and plan for its own network of automated delivery vehicles.

Nintendo has shed more light on the paid online subscription service it’s planning to offer for its Switch console, confirming US pricing, and stating that it will launch in full at some point in 2018.
The company says it will also launch a smartphone app alongside the service’s rollout next year that will let players invite friends, set up gaming sessions, or chat with friends during games on their second screens. We’ll get an early look at that software this summer, when Nintendo will put out a free, limited version of the app.
Online play for Switch games will be free until the full service comes online in 2018, at which point players will need to pay for membership in order to access online multiplayer. One month’s subscription will cost $3.99, with three months running to $7.99, and a year’s membership available for $19.99. In addition to multiplayer access, subscription also opens up eShop deals, meaning members will get money off new games bought through Nintendo’s digital download platform.
Also included in that fee is access to classic games from Nintendo’s back catalog, updated with multiplayer support and playable on the new console. Nintendo had originally indicated that these games would only be available for download for a month at a time, similar to Sony’s PlayStation Plus service, but the company today confirmed to Kotaku that all the games under this umbrella would be available for all subscribers in a library. “Users can play as many of the games as they want, as often as they like, as long as they have an active subscription,” a spokesperson told the publication.
Nintendo won't give many more details on the Switch's Netflix-like classic library, but they did send me this: https://t.co/ZdTAPYw2Y2 pic.twitter.com/oWWDFNhtW7
It’s not clear exactly which of Nintendo’s retro games will be available down the line, but the company references Super Mario Bros. 3, Balloon Fight and Dr. Mario on its site. At launch, the classic library will only include NES games, but Nintendo says it’s considering bringing over SNES games too at some point in the future
Update June 1st, 10PM ET: Updated with Nintendo’s statement to Kotaku on classic game availability.
President Trump announced his plans to pull out of the Paris climate agreement today in a jazz-accompanied spectacle at the Rose Garden. He justified the decision by arguing that the terms of the accord “could cost Americans as much as 2.7 million lost jobs by 2025.” Of those, he claimed 440,000 would be manufacturing jobs. “Believe me,” the president said. “This is not what we need.”
But experts say that there are some problems with the way Trump presented those numbers. “It’s not something you can cite in a presidential speech with a straight face,” says Yale economist Kenneth Gillingham. “It’s being used as a talking point taken out of context.”
The source for President Trump’s numbers is a report by the consulting firm National Economics Research Associates (NERA). The report was commissioned by the American Council for Capital Formation and the US Chamber of Commerce, two organizations that the Natural Resources Defense Council has described as “unabashed apologists for America’s biggest climate polluters.”
NERA modeled what might happen to the economy if the US were to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as promised in the Paris climate agreements. It reported that total “economy-wide employment losses amount to about 2.7 million in 2025” and that “the manufacturing sector alone could potentially lose 440,000 job-equivalents.” (NERA did not respond immediately to an emailed request for comment.)
But the model NERA used to come up with those numbers is unrealistically rigid, says Gary Yohe, a professor of economics and environmental studies at Wesleyan University. It assumes that businesses wouldn’t innovate to keep costs down in the face of new regulations — which isn’t how industry works. “None of the outfits that are modeled in this model would stay in business in the real economy for more than 10 or 15 years,” he says. That’s why even massive oil producers like Exxon and Conoco support the Paris climate agreement — they’re adapting to a changing economy.
As a result, 2.7 million lost jobs are probably an extreme, and unlikely, worst-case scenario. After all, the number of jobs in solar grew by 25 percent in 2016, and by 32 percent in wind. In fact, while 1.1 million people work in coal, oil, and gas, there are another 800,000 people whose jobs lie with low-carbon-emitting technologies like renewables, natural gas, and nuclear power, according to the Department of Energy. “Put simply, they’re not accounting for the jobs in the clean energy economy that are created,” Gillingham says.
The other problem the study itself acknowledges: “It does not take into account potential benefits from avoided emissions. The study results are not a benefit-cost analysis of climate change.” That means that these dire numbers aren’t being balanced by another model estimating the potential gains to the US economy by preventing climate change. “If you assume that there are no benefits and the costs are there, then of course things look bad,” Gillingham says. Trump asked us to believe him, but he’ll have to have to stop cherry picking stats first.
Essential, the new hardware outfit from Android co-founder Andy Rubin, may branch out from phones and smart home accessories into Google Glass-like smart frames. An old patent filing, dug up by the folks at Patently Apple and granted prior to its big phone reveal this week, show a concept device shaped like a standard pair of eyeglasses, but with camera and display hardware built in.
Much like Snapchat’s Spectacles, this theoretical Essential device would be used to capture eye-level photo and video with a built-in camera. However it would go further, more in the vein of Google’s ill-fated Glass headset, by adding digital information and images to real life scenes with some type of augmented reality tech. The filing describes the device working with prescription lenses, photo sensitive lenses, and standard sunglass lenses. There is also talk of a “dual-mode display,” which would present visual overlays and use an inward facing camera to perform eye tracking.
The patent also describes AR use cases like real-time price matching of products in a store. “Based on the environment that the user sees, and based on the direction of the user's gaze, the processor can display an image to augment the environment around the user,” the filing reads. “For example, if the user is looking at a barcode of an item, the processor can display cheaper purchasing options of the same item."
This is of course not a real product, at least not yet. Though from what we’ve seen from Essential, which starts shipping its new Essential Phone later this month or early July, it’s clear the company has serious hardware ambitions to take on the biggest players in the tech industry. We don’t know quite yet whether the Essential Phone can keep pace with the iPhone or its fellow top-tier Android competitors, nor do we know if the company’s Essential Home will be a viable smart speaker compared with offerings from Google and Amazon. But if Essential can arrive early to the smart glasses market, it could just gain an early edge in a sector not yet dominated by a big Silicon Valley player.
Google will introduce an ad blocker to Chrome early next year and is telling publishers to get ready.
The warning is meant to let websites assess their ads and strip any particularly disruptive ones from their pages. That’s because Chrome’s ad blocker won’t block all ads from the web. Instead, it’ll only block ads on pages that are determined to have too many annoying or intrusive advertisements, like videos that autoplay with sound or interstitials that take up the entire screen.
Sridhar Ramaswamy, the executive in charge of Google’s ads, writes in a blog post that even ads “owned or served by Google” will be blocked on pages that don’t meet Chrome’s guidelines.
Instead of an ad “blocker,” Google is referring to the feature as an ad “filter,” according to The Wall Street Journal, since it will still allow ads to be displayed on pages that meet the right requirements. The blocker will work on both desktop and mobile.
Google is providing a tool that publishers can run to find out if their sites’ ads are in violation and will be blocked in Chrome. Unacceptable ads are being determined by a group called the Coalition for Better Ads, which includes Google, Facebook, News Corp, and The Washington Post as members.
The feature is certain to be controversial. On one hand, there are huge benefits for both consumers and publishers. But on the other, it gives Google immense power over what the web looks like, partly in the name of protecting its own revenue.
First, the benefits: bad ads slow down the web, make the web hard and annoying to browse, and have ultimately driven consumers to install ad blockers that remove all advertisements no matter what. A world where that continues and most users block all ads looks almost apocalyptic for publishers, since nearly all of your favorite websites rely on ads to stay afloat. (The Verge, as you have likely noticed, included.)
By implementing a limited blocking tool, Google can limit the spread of wholesale ad blocking, which ultimately benefits everyone. Users get a better web experience. And publishers get to continue using the ad model that’s served the web well for decades — though they may lose some valuable ad units in the process.
There’s also a good argument to be made that stripping out irritating ads is no different than blocking pop ups, which web browsers have done for years, as a way to improve the experience for consumers.
But there are drawbacks to building an ad blocker into Chrome: most notably, the amount of power it gives Google. Ultimately, it means Google gets to decide what qualifies as an acceptable ad (though it’s basing this on standards set collectively by the Coalition for Better Ads). That’s a good thing if you trust Google to remain benign and act in everyone’s interests. But keep in mind that Google is, at its core, an ad company. Nearly 89 percent of its revenue comes from displaying ads.
The Chrome ad blocker doesn’t just help publishers, it also helps Google maintain its dominance. And it advantages Google’s own ad units, which, it’s safe to say, will not be in violation of the bad ad rules.
This leaves publishers with fewer options to monetize their sites. And given that Chrome represents more than half of all web browsing on desktop and mobile, publishers will be hard pressed not to comply.
Google will also include an option for visitors to pay websites that they’re blocking ads on, through a program it’s calling Funding Choices. Publishers will have to enable support for this feature individually. But Google already tested a similar feature for more than two years, and it never really caught on. So it’s hard to imagine publishers seeing what’s essentially a voluntary tipping model as a viable alternative to ads.
Ramaswamy says that the goal of Chrome’s ad blocker is to make online ads better. “We believe these changes will ensure all content creators, big and small, can continue to have a sustainable way to fund their work with online advertising,” he writes.
And what Ramaswamy says is probably true: Chrome’s ad blocker likely will clean up the web and result in a better browsing experience. It just does that by giving a single advertising juggernaut a whole lot of say over what’s good and bad.
The ZTE Nubia Z17 may be the most powerful phone to come out of China yet. The phone — which is being touted by human statue and face of ZTE, Cristiano Ronaldo, in press images — is packed with high-end parts, including a ridiculous 8GB of RAM:
The Z17 is only the second phone to come with 8GB of RAM, and the first to support Qualcomm’s Quick Charge 4+, which will recharge the battery to 50 percent in 25 minutes. It’s also only the second Chinese phone to utilize the Snapdragon 835 after Xiaomi’s Mi 6.
It’s also water resistant, supports Dolby Atmos, comes with an IR blaster, and will be available in five colors: blue, black, gold, red, and black and gold. The Z17, which is currently only available in China, will start at CNY2,799 ($411) for a 6GB +64GB or storage version, and top out at CNY3,999 ($583) for the 8GB +128GB of storage option.
Google CEO Sundar Pichai, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella all said today that they remain committed to the environment and clean energy initiatives in the face of Trump’s decision to withdrawn the US from the Paris climate coalition.
Though many voices around the world, including politicians and representatives from numerous corporations and countries, have expressed extreme concern over Trump’s decision, Pichai, Nadella, and Zuckerberg are three of the most powerful figures in the tech. Their opinions on political matters carry immense weight in the industry, suggesting many other members in Silicon Valley and beyond will speak up on behalf of the tech sector. Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk also confirmed today on Twitter that he would be stepping down from Trump’s economic advisory councils over the decision.
“Withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement is bad for the environment, bad for the economy, and it puts our children's future at risk,” Zuckerberg wrote on his personal Facebook page. “For our part, we've committed that every new data center we build will be powered by 100 percent renewable energy. Stopping climate change is something we can only do as a global community, and we have to act together before it's too late.”
Shortly after 5PM ET, Pichai tweeted, “Disappointed with today’s decision. Google will keep working hard for a cleaner, more prosperous future for all.” Slightly early in the afternoon, Nadella and Brad Smith, the company’s chief legal officer, both tweeted messages reiterating Microsoft’s commitment to reducing carbon emissions and preventing the devastating effects of climate change. “We believe climate change is an urgent issue that demands global action. We remain committed to doing our part,” Nadella wrote.
Disappointed with today’s decision. Google will keep working hard for a cleaner, more prosperous future for all.
Smith, who is known for penning lengthy and thorough blog posts on controversial political topics on behalf of Microsoft, also directed readers to a LinkedIn post that better explained the company’s reasoning for denouncing the withdrawal.
“We are disappointed with today’s decision by the White House to withdraw the United States from the landmark, globally supported Paris Agreement on climate change,” Smith writes. “We believe that continued U.S. participation benefits U.S. businesses and the economy in important and multiple ways. A global framework strengthens competitiveness for American businesses. It creates new markets for innovative clean technologies, from green power to smart grids to cloud-enabled solutions. And by strengthening global action over time, the Agreement reduces future climate damage to people and organizations around the world.”
Though Musk and the others remain the most prominent tech industry leaders to have personally voiced concern on the subject, other tech companies have been issuing statements denouncing Trump’s decision as well. Both Amazon and HP issued statements saying they will continue to support the agreement and to take actions to reduce emissions and mitigate the effects of climate change. “Climate change is one of the most significant and urgent issues facing business and society today,” wrote HP in its statement. “The science is clear, the impacts are serious and the need to act is essential.”
Here's Amazon's reaction to Trump pulling out of Paris Accords: pic.twitter.com/Mw2pwV49EF
Prior to Trump’s press conference today, tech leaders across the industry attempted to sway the president from following through on the withdrawal. Among those were Apple CEO Tim Cook, who called the White House on Tuesday to reportedly ask Trump to reconsider. A number of other companies signed a letter that was published today as a full-page ad in both The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times expressing the same concern.
According to Axios, Cook sent an email to to Apple employees today confirming his attempt on Tuesday to convince Trump to remain part of the accord. “Climate change is real and we all share a responsibility to fight it. I want to reassure you that today's developments will have no impact on Apple's efforts to protect the environment,” Cook wrote in the email. “Our mission has always been to leave the world better than we found it. We will never waver, because we know that future generations depend on us.”
Many corporate leaders like Cook tried, and apparently failed, to appeal to Trump’s nationalistic tendencies. They do so by trying to reiterate the damage the withdrawal could do to America’s business interests, as well as its ability to compete on the global stage with the nearly 200 other members of the Paris climate deal. Despite those efforts, Trump is now following through with his promise to try and renegotiate the agreement, a task some EU countries have already said is virtually impossible.
Update 5:50PM ET, 6/1: Added statement from Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.
Update 8:11PM ET, 6/1: Added excerpt from email Apple CEO Tim Cook sent to company employees today.
After President Donald Trump announced that the US would no longer honor the Paris climate agreement, three states have announced they’re rebelling.
New York governor Andrew Cuomo, California governor Edmund Brown Jr., and Washington state governor Jay Inslee said they’re forming a coalition of states committed to fighting climate change. The move basically formally shifts the responsibility of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the federal government to the local level.
“I am proud to stand with other governors as we make sure that the inaction in D.C. is met by an equal force of action from the states," Inslee said in a statement. "Today’s announcement by the president leaves the full responsibility of climate action on states and cities throughout our nation. While the president’s actions are a shameful rebuke to the work needed to protect our planet for our children and grandchildren, states have been and will continue to step up.”
Throughout the US, cities and states have already been at the forefront in the fight against climate change. Last year, California extended an ambitious law aimed at slashing emissions 40 percent below the 1990 levels by 2030. New York pledged to the same goals, according to Newsweek; it is also one of nine Northeastern states that’s part of a joint cap-and-trade program.
New York, California, and Washington represent 68 million Americans and over one-fifth of US GDP, accounting for at least 10 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in the US, the press release said. The coalition, called the United States Climate Alliance, will convene states that want to uphold the Paris Climate Agreement. Under the deal, former President Barack Obama had pledged to reduce US emissions by 26–28 percent of 2005 levels by 2025.
These states have been taking charge to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for years now. With the White House unwilling to take climate change seriously, they will have to continue to lead the way.

Walmart’s 200 “Walmart Academy” training centers are all planning to incorporate virtual reality by the end of 2017, after an earlier pilot program. The limited curriculum is being produced by Strivr, a company previously known for helping NFL players train through VR. New Walmart employees will put on an Oculus Rift headset and enter different real-world scenarios, during which they’ll be asked to make simple choices based on what they see. Eventually, Strivr and Walmart hope to expand the program to all stores, not just the academies.
Training simulators have been part of VR since the very beginning, but they’re more frequently associated with industrial labor or military training than with service work. The goal here, says Strivr CEO Derek Belch, is to put employees in scenarios that would be inconvenient to physically re-create — like dealing with spills, or preparing for a Black Friday shopping spree.
“We’re using computer vision to map scenes, so we literally know exactly where someone's looking,” says Belch. “If they don't look at [the right place] and press the button indicating that they have seen the stimuli that we're looking for, we know.” Wearers might look around an environment and find the spill, for example, then answer a multiple-choice question about what effect it could have on the store.
One of the biggest problems for Strivr and Walmart is that high-end VR headsets like the Oculus Rift are expensive and space-consuming. That’s why, for now, only one person will go through the training at a time, while other people watch on a flat screen. Everybody will eventually get to spend time in VR, but only over the course of their two-week training period, with each session lasting between 5 and 20 minutes. “In a perfect world, everybody has a VR headset,” says Belch. “VR is not there yet. Even the mobile devices, there's a lot of challenges in getting that much hardware out into people's hands at scale.” So for now, VR is a small, supplemental part of Walmart training.
But Belch thinks that we’ll see it expand rapidly. “This is something that we have talked openly with [Walmart] about, that very well could be at every Walmart store in a couple years,” he says. “You could imagine this area where there's a room in the back and there are three mobile headsets hanging on the wall, and employees have to go through continuing education every month, going through VR modules.” That’s right: if you work for Walmart, maybe soon you can enjoy Black Friday every month.
The race to be the first to deploy autonomous vehicles is on among carmakers, emerging startups, and tech giants. Amid this constant news cycle of deals and drama, the purpose of all of it can get lost — or at least a bit muddied. What exactly are these companies racing for?
A $7 trillion annual revenue stream, according to a study released Thursday by Intel. The companies that don’t prepare for self-driving risk failure or extinction, Intel says. The report also finds that over half a million lives could be saved by self-driving over just one decade.
The study, prepared by Strategy Analytics, predicts autonomous vehicles will create a massive economic opportunity that will scale from $800 billion in 2035 (the base year of the study) to $7 trillion by 2050. An estimated 585,000 lives could be saved due to autonomous vehicles between 2035 and 2045, the study predicts.
This “passenger economy,” as Intel is calling it, includes the value of the products and services derived from fully autonomous vehicles as well as indirect savings such as time.
This is hardly the first attempt to place value on autonomous vehicles, nor will it be the last. However, Intel’s study offers a few interesting predictions for autonomous vehicles and how a combination of mobile connectivity, population density in cities, traffic congestion and subsequent regulation, and the rise of on-demand ride-hailing and car-sharing services will be the catalysts in this new economic era.
Of course, Intel has a vested interest in rosy predictions about the future of autonomous transportation. The chipmaker has promised to spend $250 million over the next two years to develop self-driving technology, and recently acquired Jerusalem-based auto vision company Mobileye for an eye-popping $15 billion. And Intel is working with BMW to put self-driving cars on the road later this year. So when Intel pays for a study that predicts self-driving cars will cause cash to rain from the sky, it should be seen as equal parts industry analysis and wishful thinking.
Autonomous technology will drive change across a range of industries, the study predicts, the first green shoots of which will appear in the business-to-business sector. These autonomous vehicles will first appear in developed markets and will reinvent the package delivery and long-haul transportation sectors, says Strategy Analytics president Harvey Cohen, who co-authored the study. This will relieve driver shortages, a chronic problem in the industry, and account for two-thirds of initial projected revenues.
One of the bolder predictions is that public transportation as we know it today — trains, subways, light rails, and buses — will be supplanted, or at least radically changed, by the rise of on-demand autonomous vehicle fleets.
The study argues that people will flock to suburbs as population density rises in city centers, pushing commute times higher and “outstripping the ability of public transport infrastructure to fully meet consumer mobility needs.”
The pressures of mounting traffic congestion and the correlated emissions will drive regulators to include autonomous vehicles as a part of their larger public transportation plans. Some cities may choose to own the vehicle networks not unlike existing public transportation, the study says.
The bulk of the revenue generated in the new economy will be driven by this “mobility-as-a-service.”
By 2050, business use of mobility as a service will generate about $3 trillion in revenues, or 43 percent of the total passenger economy. Consumer use will account for $3.7 trillion, or 53 percent, the study predicts.
The remaining $200 billion in revenue (of the $7 trillion total) will be generated by new applications and services as driverless vehicle services expand. A key opportunity will be how to capitalize on all of this saved time people will have once they no longer have to drive a car.
Self-driving vehicles are expected to free more than 250 million hours of consumers’ commuting time per year in the most congested cities in the world, the study says. That’s a lot of time that could be filled with streaming video, news, and other content delivered to a captured audience.
It could also change the way cars are used. Vehicles could become “experience pods,” places where people can have their hair styled and cut, conduct a meeting, or receive a health screening.
Keep in mind, that this reimagined future doesn’t mean people will necessarily spend less time in cars. One of the great promises of self-driving cars is a reduction in congestion because these vehicles will be able share real-time traffic data and optimize tasks like finding parking.
However, in a more densely populated world, where cities rely on shared autonomous vehicles for public transit, there will be more traffic than ever before. The question is: how do people want to spend their time?
Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk is stepping away from his roles on two of Donald Trump’s advisory councils following the president’s decision to pull the United States out of the Paris climate agreement. Musk announced the news in a Twitter post shortly after the president’s statement at the White House.
“[I] Am departing presidential councils. Climate change is real. Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world,” Musk wrote. He had previously been a member of Trump’s Manufacturing Jobs Initiative and the Strategic and Policy Forum.
As early as last week Musk had stated that he was “cautiously optimistic of a positive decision.” But yesterday, as rumors swirled that Trump would begin the process of withdrawing the US from the agreement, Musk threatened to sever his connection to the president. “[I] don't know which way Paris will go, but I've done all I can to advise directly to POTUS, through others in WH & via councils, that we remain,” he tweeted.
This prompted another Twitter user to ask him what he’d do if Trump pulled the US out of the accord. Musk responded that he’d “have no choice but to depart councils in that case.”
Am departing presidential councils. Climate change is real. Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world.
Musk had spent months swatting criticism for keeping his connection with Trump, especially because his companies — Tesla and SpaceX — benefit from government tax credits and contracts. He first explained the decision in February at the height of the controversy surrounding Trump’s proposed travel ban.
“My goals are to accelerate the world's transition to sustainable energy and to help make humanity a multi-planet civilization, a consequence of which will be the creation of hundreds of thousands of jobs and a more inspiring future for all,” he wrote at the time. Musk then claimed that maintaining a relationship with the president would allow him to engage Trump on issues like climate change, which would “on balance serve the greater good.”
Later that week, he wrote that he had used one of the council meetings to raise climate change as an important issue. “I believe this is doing good, so will remain on council & keep at it. Doing otherwise would be wrong,” he added.


President Donald Trump just announced the United States will pull out of the Paris climate agreements, though it will try to negotiate for a new climate deal. Withdrawing from the agreement — a landmark deal that commits almost every country in the world to reducing greenhouse gas emissions to fight global warming — was one of Trump’s signature campaign promises. In recent months, however, it seemed less clear whether he would go through with it.
“We’re getting out, but we’re starting to negotiate and we will see if we can make a deal that’s fair,” Trump said from a press conference in the White House Rose Garden.  “If we can, that’s great. If we can’t, that’s fine.” After the conference, France, Germany, and Italy issued a joint statement saying that the agreement can’t be negotiated, according to the Associated Press.
Reached at the end of 2015, the Paris deal was one of the most comprehensive climate change agreements ever passed; it is notable because it included countries like China, which pollute heavily but have not signed on to climate deals before. Under the agreement, former President Barack Obama had pledged to reduce US emissions by 26–28 percent of 2005 levels by 2025. But since his inauguration, Trump has initiated the roll back of several regulations, like the Clean Power Plan, meant to achieve those goals.
Advisers had been telling the president that he would benefit from staying with the agreement, according to The Washington Post. Foreign leaders lobbied him during his trip abroad. Apple CEO Tim Cook urged him to reconsider, while Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk tweeted that he’d spoken to Trump weeks ago about the agreement and was “cautiously optimistic.” (Upon hearing that Trump had decided to withdraw from the agreements, Musk tweeted that he was quitting the president’s advisory councils.)  Trump’s daughter Ivanka Trump and son-in-law Jared Kushner, as well Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, a former chief executive of ExxonMobil, all suggested that he keep the United States in the deal.
Still, a group of 22 Republican senators recently sent a letter to the president urging him to keep his promise. And signs weren’t looking good at the end of the foreign trip, when he refused to publicly support the agreement. (The six other nations then reemphasized their own commitment in a joint statement.)
By pulling out, the US will join two other nations in the UN climate group — Nicaragua and Syria — that don’t take part in the agreement. (Nicaragua didn’t sign the agreement because its leaders thought it’s not strict enough; Syria has been embroiled in a civil war for six years.) China, the world’s top polluter, has vowed to go ahead with the deal regardless of the US’s inclusion, but there’s little doubt that the US pulling out will have big consequences. The United States is the world’s second largest greenhouse gas polluter and also the world’s largest economy. By dropping the deal, it could encourage other countries to leave as well, or perhaps simply not regard the guidelines.
In a statement, Obama said that he believes the United States should “be at the front of the pack” of nations working on curbing climate change. Still, he said he remains confident that despite the withdrawal of the US, “states, cities, and businesses will step up.”
Reactions from business leaders were largely negative. Amazon stated that it continues to support the Paris agreement. HP also affirmed its support for the agreement, adding that “the science [of climate change] is clear, the impacts are serious and the need to act is essential.” Similarly, Brad Smith, the president of Microsoft, tweeted that he was disappointed with Trump’s decision.
Even if fully implemented, the Paris agreement was never going to be a magical solution. The plan would still only reduce emissions by half as much as necessary to prevent a global temperature increase of 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, scientists say. (It is considered crucial to avoid the 3.6 degree temperature increase in order to protect the planet.) But without the cooperation of the US, it now looks weaker than ever.

YouTube is taking new steps today to get a handle on content that might offend advertisers or, conversely, prevent a YouTube creator from monetizing their videos. Several major brands left the platform’s ad program recently to avoid being linked with hateful and offensive videos. And many creators were upset when videos they saw as benign started to be de-monetized.
YouTube has promised to give advertisers greater control over where their ads appear and to give creators a better sense of what they need to avoid if they want their videos to make money. Today the video service is expanding its creator guidelines on what constitutes an “ad-friendly” video, offering up more details about dos and don’ts, and, importantly, adding three new categories of videos that won’t be eligible for advertising.
YouTube is trying to walk a careful line with these new guidelines. The company needs to give brands more assurance that their ads won’t be placed before objectionable content, while also minimizing any negative reaction from popular creators who depend on ad revenue. It’s a necessary dance as YouTube tries to balance the freewheeling nature of creation with all the ad money flowing through its business.
The new guidelines, according to YouTube VP of product management Ariel Bardin, “take a tougher stance” on:
Hateful content: Content that promotes discrimination or disparages or humiliates an individual or group of people on the basis of the individual’s or group’s race, ethnicity, or ethnic origin, nationality, religion, disability, age, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or other characteristic associated with systematic discrimination or marginalization.
Inappropriate use of family entertainment characters: Content that depicts family entertainment characters engaged in violent, sexual, vile, or otherwise inappropriate behavior, even if done for comedic or satirical purposes.
Incendiary and demeaning content: Content that is gratuitously incendiary, inflammatory, or demeaning. For example, video content that uses gratuitously disrespectful language that shames or insults an individual or group.
The first and second points are straightforward enough. For one, YouTube is getting much stricter about discriminatory content and making an effort to be transparent about it. The second section also makes clear that YouTube plans to crack down on videos that feature recognizable family entertainment characters in unseemly situations.
That third area, though — “incendiary and demeaning content” — might be the hardest for YouTube to incontestably define for both creators and brands. There’s plenty of room for debate over where the “gratuitous” line falls. To that end, YouTube says it’s working to improve the appeals process for creators who object to having a video marked as “not advertising friendly.”
To be clear, many videos that fall under the above descriptions will still be permitted on YouTube — they just won’t be allowed to receive advertising dollars. “We hope this additional information will provide you with more insight into the types of content that brands have told us they don’t want to advertise against and help you to make more informed content decisions,” said Bardin.
For a few minutes on August 21st, the Moon will completely block the Sun for anyone watching the skies along a 70-mile-wide swath of North America from Oregon to South Carolina. The rest of the continent will get to see a partial eclipse lasting a few hours. The big event is being called the Great American Eclipse. But, for anyone looking to not actually be on American soil for it, well, you can apparently watch it from sea.
The Royal Caribbean cruise company is pitching a “brag-worthy adventure to idyllic islands in the Caribbean” where “guests on Oasis of the Seas will be treated to a full slate of eclipse-themed activities.”
Although the partial eclipse will only last for two to three hours, die-hard eclipse fans can extend the experience with an entire week aboard the Oasis of the Seas. There will be “interactive science fun for kids.” You won’t even be able to get away from all the eclipse enthusiasm in the bar: there will be “tasty cocktails” named Cosmic Cosmo and Planetary Punch.
Royal Caribbean promises that the ship will navigate to the “optimal spot” to view the eclipse, which is identified in the press release as the Caribbean Ocean, which isn’t in the eclipse’s direct path. A spokesperson with the cruise company told The Verge that they actually meant the “ship plans to be along the path of the totality during the Eclipse” — where the Moon will completely obscure the Sun for a few minutes. So, as long as the weather cooperates, cruise passengers could get a good look. But, honestly, you could probably see it just as well from land.
Lyft published its first diversity report today, revealing numbers that were slightly better than its rival Uber and the tech industry as a whole. The numbers come as Silicon Valley is facing criticism and numerous lawsuits concerning rampant sexual harassment and an overall lack of gender and ethnic diversity. But does it support the recent claim by Lyft’s president that the app company is “woke?”
Not exactly. Lyft published its report as part of an Obama-era White House pledge signed by 30 tech companies in June 2016 to release annual diversity reports. Uber released its diversity report in March under a cloud of allegations concerning its toxic workplace. Today, Lyft’s numbers show a company that is barely more balanced in terms of gender and racial diversity.
In terms of gender identity, 42 percent of Lyft’s workforce identifies as female, including 36 percent of its leadership team. But those numbers drop precipitously when you look at Lyft’s technical staff: only 18 percent of Lyft’s engineering division identifies as female, including 13 percent of its technical executives.
Overall, 63 percent of Lyft’s staff is white, 19 percent is Asian, 7 percent is Latinx, and 6 percent is black. In the engineering field, 51 percent is white, 38 percent is Asian, 4 percent is Latinx, and 2 percent is black. Lyft’s top executives are overwhelming white: 70 percent, versus 18 percent that is Asian, 5 percent that is Latinx, and 1 percent that is black. Lyft’s engineering leadership is mostly white and Asian: 59 percent and 34 percent, respectively. None of its head engineers are Latinx or black.
Still, Lyft is doing better on gender diversity than its crosstown rival Uber. Only 36 percent of Uber’s workforce identifies as female, compared to Lyft’s 42 percent. But both companies are pretty much overwhelmingly white and Asian. Black and Hispanic employees only make up 13 percent of Lyft’s staff, compared to Uber’s 15 percent. Of course, Lyft’s workforce is a fraction of Uber’s: 1,600 employees, compared to Uber’s 12,000. (Uber is in over 60 countries worldwide, while Lyft only operates in the US.)
In a blog post, Lyft admits that it “has a lot of work to do,” noting that its newly hired head of diversity Tariq Meyers was working with strategy firm Paradigm “to identify opportunities for positive change.” The company says it’s “investing more in programs,” without specifying exactly which programs and how much it plans to spend.
“Releasing our data will hold us accountable, but it’s the actions we take that will make a difference to the people who come to work every day at Lyft,” the company says. “Our diversity data exposes gaps in important areas. So we’re doing something about it.”
Notably, Lyft’s numbers do not include its drivers, who — along with Uber drivers — have been accused of discriminating against female and black customers.

Scientists can now move a mouse’s whiskers, ears, and a paw using just electrodes on the outside of the animal’s head. This new method can stimulate deep parts of the brain without surgery and — if it pans out in humans — it could be very helpful for people with neurological conditions like Parkinson’s, depression, or epilepsy.
The brain has surface regions located near the skull and deep regions further inside, such as the motor cortex, the area of the brain that controls movement. Until now, the only real way to stimulate the regions deeper inside the brain was to cut open the skull and directly implant electrodes. (This is called deep-brain stimulation.) But surgery can be dangerous and the electrodes can cause damage inside the brain. In a study published today in the journal Cell, a team of scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology showed a way to sidestep the dangerous surgery and stimulate the motor cortex from the outside.
To do this, the team took advantage of how neurons process electrical signals. Neurons only activate when they receive low-frequency electricity signals. If high-frequency signals are applied to the brain, the brain just ignores them. “It can’t keep up,” says study co-author Ed Boyden, a cognitive scientist at MIT.
But something interesting happens when you send two high-frequency signals that are just a little bit different, like 3000 hertz and 3001 hertz. Most parts of the brain ignore the signals. But when the two frequencies meet at the target site — in this case, the motor cortex — and interfere with each other, the neurons pay attention. They interpret the difference in frequency as if it were a low-frequency wave. This technique, called “temporal interference,” makes it possible to stimulate just one part of the brain and not all the other parts on the way there.
That’s exactly what the team did. After calculating the right frequencies to target the motor cortex, they sent the two frequencies to the mouse brains. In this way, they made the animal wiggle its ears, whiskers, and a paw.
The technique could potentially help humans with certain conditions. In a disease like Parkinson’s, for instance, the motor cortex sends and receives abnormal electrical signals. This causes people to have tremors and their muscles to weaken. With traditional deep-brain stimulation, the electrode implanted in the brain blocks these abnormal signals, which helps control the tremors for up to five years. Ideally, says Boyden, with the new technique one day you could stimulate a human brain from the outside for a brief amount of time, and have the effects last for the rest of the day or the rest of the week.
“This technique has potential to be an extremely useful tool to both probe and potentially change the functioning of brain regions and brain circuits that are very important to a lot of human illnesses,” says Ben Greenberg, associate director of Providence VA Hospital’s Center for Neurorestoration and Neurotechnology, who was not involved in the study. But he notes that it’s simply “too soon to say” how this stacks against deep-brain stimulation, which has been researched since the 1980s.
There are many questions that need to be answered. We don’t know yet how precise this new method can be; for now, we just know it’s nowhere near as precise as implantable devices. Safety is another concern: early tests showed that this type of stimulation didn’t harm the animals, but more research needs to be done, according to Boyden.
And, of course, the big question is how useful this could be in humans. For one, the human skull is thicker than a mouse’s, which will change the types of frequencies needed. Plus, different people might respond to frequencies differently, says Greenberg. “Even in the mice, there were differences in how responsive their cells were.”
Boyden’s team is already doing more safety experiments with animals, and early studies with human volunteers. “We want to be as careful as possible, of course,” Boyden says, “but the good news is that since we’re building from decades of research on electric fields, so it’s not like we’re starting from scratch.”


My Neighbor Totoro, Hayao Miyazaki’s animated classic about two young girls and the friendly spirit-monsters near their new home, is getting turned into a theme park. Chunichu Web reported yesterday (in a piece translated by Anime News Network) that Studio Ghibli plans to let fans explore Totoro’s world in a park set to open in Japan in 2020.
The attraction will be built in Echo Park, located in Nagoya, Japan’s Aichi prefecture. According to Variety, Studio Ghibli producer Toshio Suzuki and Aichi governor Hideaki Omura made the public statement about plans for the park. Those plans are reportedly an expansion of a previous collaboration that brought a recreation of Satsuki and Mei’s house to the park in 2005 for the World’s Fair.
My Neighbor Totoro, released in 1988, is easily one of Ghibli’s most beloved properties — the studio has taken the Totoro character as its mascot, and incorporated him into the studio’s logo. Totoro is also one of Ghibli’s most consistent sources of profit. Merchandising for the film has become a long-lasting international phenomenon, and sales of Totoro products supported the studio during its early years, according to an official history originally posted on Ghibli’s website.
There’s no word yet on whether any other of the studio’s properties will become attractions, but it’s probably safe to say park visitors won’t see the demons from Princess Mononoke recreated in real life anytime soon.
The Wachowskis’ Sense8 has been canceled by Netflix after two seasons and one holiday special. Cindy Holland, VP of original content at Netflix, confirmed the cancelation in a statement published on the platform’s press blog.
This marks Netflix’s second major series cancelation in as many weeks, with Baz Luhrmann’s incredibly expensive musical drama The Get Down (season 1 had an estimated budget of $120 million) canceled last week. Luhrmann cited a personal conflict between his status as showrunner and a preexisting film directing contract with Sony for that cancelation, but Netflix CEO Reed Hastings implied at Code Conference yesterday that the show had also fallen short of viewership expectations. There has also been speculation that the relationship between Netflix and Sony Pictures Television has somewhat soured.
Sense8’s budget was also pretty massive, estimated at about $9 million per episode for its second season. (For comparison, Game of Thrones’ early episodes were estimated at $6 million, and it wasn’t until season 6 that it broke an average of $10 million per episode.) The statement from Netflix does not cite a specific reason for the cancelation, stating only “[Sense8] is everything we dreamed it would be: bold, emotional, stunning, kick ass, and outright unforgettable. Never has there been a more truly global show with an equally diverse and international cast and crew[.]”
Statement from Netflix on the cancelation of #Sense8 pic.twitter.com/w42kvlWypF
Though unexplained, the cancelation doesn’t come as a total surprise, as fans have speculated about the lack of a season 3 pickup announcement for weeks. Until recently, however, cancelations of Netflix original series were few and far between, with the only notable examples being Hemlock Grove, Marco Polo, and Bloodline. It seems Netflix is getting more aggressive about cutting its losses when shows don’t become major hits, in keeping with Hastings’ comment yesterday that he has been personally pushing Netflix’s original content team to take bigger risks and let things fail.
We’ve reached out to Netflix for comment and will update if we hear back.
After a lot of speculation, Korean automaker Hyundai finally pulled the wraps off of its first mass-produced electric bus this week. It’s called the Elec City. It has a range of 180 miles, thanks to a 256kWh battery pack, according to Hyundai. A report from the Yonhap news agency says the bus can also be fully charged in just over an hour. The company plans to launch the bus in 2018.
While that’s more than double what had been rumored for Hyundai, it’s still a far cry from the massive 660kWh capacity of the Catalyst E2, the newest bus from American manufacturer Proterra. The Catalyst E2 supposedly gets 350 miles of street driving on a single charge, and maybe more with some highway driving mixed in. Plus, Proterra’s new bus will hit the road in 2017.
It’s not clear if Hyundai would ever bring its bus to North America, but if it did, Proterra wouldn’t be the only competition. Chinese manufacturer BYD has sold buses in California. Canadian company GreenPower has a small foothold as well. Tesla CEO Elon Musk even flirted with the idea, though it appears that the project could be on hold while he works on tunneling under Los Angeles. Adoption rates could go up as electric buses get better and cheaper, too. Despite the fact that they’re about twice as expensive as their diesel counterparts in the early going, a recent study from Columbia University estimates that they could save cities money over the long haul.
Hyundai, like many other automakers, has been slowly increasing the number of electric (and hydrogen) vehicles it makes in recent years. Its most visible offering is the Ioniq, a sedan that Hyundai sells in three variants: hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and all-electric. The company has also promised that a long-range electric vehicle is coming in 2018.


Once upon a time on Mars, there was a crater that had a massive lake that may have hosted life. Now researchers are saying that a whole variety of organisms could have flourished there. Sure, that life was probably just microbial, but this is another exciting step toward understanding just how habitable Mars may have been around 3.5 billion years ago.
Petrified mud that was once at the bottom of the lake suggests that, at the time, the lake had different chemical environments that could have hosted different types of microbes. The rocks also show that the Red Planet’s climate may have been more dynamic than we thought, going from cold and dry to warm and wet, before eventually drying out.
We still don’t know whether life once existed on Mars when the planet was warmer and had liquid water. But today’s findings, published in Science, give a much more nuanced and detailed picture of what this area of Mars could have looked like through time. The paper’s results will have to be tested by analyzing more rocks in the crater. But it could have big implications on how we think about the Red Planet’s climate and how habitable Mars was.
“The data and interpretations presented here provide necessary clues to answer the big open question: ‘What happened to the water on Mars?’” Isaac Smith, a postdoctoral researcher at the Planetary Science Institute, who was not involved in the research, writes in an email to The Verge. Smith called the findings "impressive."
Since landing inside the 93-mile-wide Gale Crater in 2012, NASA’s Curiosity rover has been drilling and analyzing rock samples. The rover has discovered the chemical ingredients — like carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, and sulfur — needed for life as we know it on Earth. “The lake had all the right stuff for microbial life to live in,” says study co-author Joel Hurowitz, a geochemist and planetary scientist at Stony Brook University.
Curiosity is currently climbing up a three-mile-high layered mountain inside the crater. This mountain, called Mount Sharp, is believed to be the result of mud and sediments carried through time by rivers into the lake, where it eventually petrified into mudstone. Once Mars dried out, wind carved those layers of mud into the shape of a mountain, says study co-author Ashwin Vasavada, a Mars Science Laboratory project scientist at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
The authors of today’s study analyzed the chemical and mineral composition of the mudstones that were drilled by Curiosity, to see what they could reveal about the lake and the ancient Martian climate. Certain minerals in certain rocks were shown to have interacted with oxygen, while others much less so. This is because some sediments were in shallow waters, where there was more oxygen, while others were in deep waters, where there was very little oxygen, according to the authors. The same happens in deep lakes on Earth, Vasavada says — deep down, there’s not much oxygen.
“This is a new level of detail in terms of our understanding of the chemical environment in this lake on Mars,” says Hurowitz. “It gives us a much more complete picture of the habitability of this lake.”
The findings basically show that the lake in Gale Crater had different areas — some rich in oxygen, some not — that could have supported different types of microbes. Some microbes thrive in low-oxygen environments, while others require more oxygen to survive. Reactions between oxygen and other chemicals also provide forms of energy certain microbes can feed off of. It’s further proof that, billions of years ago, the lake could have hosted life.
“Liquid water is important for habitability, but providing an energy source is also important,” Janice Bishop, a chemist and planetary scientist at the SETI institute, who was not involved in the research, writes in an email to The Verge.
By analyzing the mudstones, the researchers were also able to figure out the types of climate in which the rocks formed before being transported to the lake. The chemical composition of the older sediments was altered less than in the younger sediments. That means that the older sediments were formed at a time when the climate was cold and dry, while the more recent ones were formed when the climate was warmer and wetter. This suggests that Mars’ climate — at least in this region of the planet — was changing over the years, going from cold and dry to warm and wet.
That seems counterintuitive, since the current idea we have of Mars’ climate is that it went from being warm, with liquid water, to cold and arid, as it is today. The findings suggest the story is more complicated than that, with wet and dry periods that possibly fluctuated through thousands or even millions of years. “This is going a step further, saying that yes... the climate transitions are more complex than we thought,”  says Kristen Bennett, a postdoctoral research associate at Northern Arizona University who studies Martian sedimentary geology, who was not involved in the research.
The study has some limitations. It’s only about roughly 330 feet of sediment layers in one corner of Gale Crater, says Bennett. It also represents one interpretation of what could have happened to the sediments, but it’s definitely not the final word. As the study points out, rocks and sediments are altered by many things — like where they’re from, how they interact with the river water that’s transporting them, and how acidic the lake water is, says Bethany Ehlmann, a research scientist at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, who did not take part in the research. So there are many ways we can interpret, say, why certain minerals in the sediments show interaction with oxygen. Maybe it doesn’t have to do with the lake water, but with groundwater infiltrating the rocks, Ehlmann says.
So more research will need to happen to prove that the lake had different chemical environments and that Mars’ climate fluctuated as widely as today’s findings suggest. But as Curiosity keeps going up Mount Sharp, it is collecting more sediment samples. Several tens of meters of layers will be analyzed in the new few months by the rover, so within a year, “we’ll have a chance to test the conclusions of this paper,” Ehlmann says.
Still, if confirmed, today’s findings could change how we interpret the planet’s climate and just how habitable ancient Mars was. In fact, one suggestion from the paper — that Mars had warmer and wetter climates that permitted liquid water in lakes as recently as about 3 billion years ago — is pretty significant, since that’s later than some scientists thought. “It pushes the existence of liquid water closer to the present,”  Ehlmann says. And the closer we get to understanding what ancient Mars was like, the closer we come to answering the big question: whether the Red Planet actually hosted life.
Facebook is overhauling how its photo albums work to let users drop in virtually any post from the social network to save for posterity. This includes of course photos and videos, but now text posts and check-ins as well. The company is also making it easier to add friends as contributors to create shared albums, and adding the ability to display a “featured album” prominently on your profile. The idea is to turn the sometimes forgotten photo albums feature into a way to store memories of all types.
Some users may be hesitant to store photos on Facebook that are not being deliberately edited and shared to a wider audience, as opposed to somewhere slightly more private like Google Photos or more curated like Instagram. Facebook it seems recognizes this, and the company wants users to think of albums as a place to dump scraps of daily life with a focus on which friends were involved and what you were doing with them.
This could also be seen as a way to make Facebook sharing more casual, in the vein of Snapchat, especially given the success of the more lightweight and well designed Instagram Stories feature that disappears photos and videos after just 24 hours. With these updates, Facebook will now even let you subscribe to a friend’s album to receive notifications when updates are added, making it more of a personalized feed within the broader app itself. The company says the feature will be rolling out on the Android and desktop versions of Facebook starting today, with iOS coming later.

Qualcomm loves its charging standards, which have become just as much a selling point for its Snapdragon chipsets as the processor power. Now, just a mere six months after announcing Quick Charge 4, which boosted charging times and safety considerably over its predecessors, Qualcomm is introducing the new Quick Charge 4+ standard.
Unlike previous standards, which required a new chipset, 4+ is something device and accessory manufacturers can implement by adding three enhancements to Quick Charge 4-compliant devices:
Qualcomm claims devices that implement this standard can get charging times up to 15 percent faster than Quick Charge 4, and will charge up to 30 percent more efficiently — an especially nice perk if you're charging from a battery pack. Charging will also be up to 3 degrees Celsius (about 5 degrees Fahrenheit) cooler.
Unfortunately, you most likely won't get these features with a software patch to existing devices, since these are mostly hardware enhancements. So far there's one device confirmed to include 4+: the just-announced Nubia Z17, a Snapdragon 835 phone with a 3200mAh battery.
Lego just opened preorders for Lego Boost, the simple programmable robotics kit it announced early this year. The $159.99 kit includes two motors, a color and distance sensor, and the parts needed to build a Lego cat, robot, guitar, vehicle, or imitation 3D printer. Kids can control their creations with an Android or iOS app, using a basic drag-and-drop programming system. Preorders will begin shipping in late July.
Boost is one of several options for programmable Lego. Outside the well-known Lego Mindstorms, there’s also the educational WeDo platform, as well as newly announced support for Apple’s educational programming app, Swift Playgrounds. Boost’s text-free drag-and-drop programming is designed for younger children than Mindstorms is, and it’s meant to be more for play than education. We tried it at CES, and while it’s far more limited than something like Mindstorms (and costs a lot of money), it’s also pretty fun!
This new LEGO set makes it dead easy to program a robot cat.
Google is issuing an update to Sheets today that’ll make it easier for users to visualize their data. People can already use Explore in Sheets to ask questions and receive data in return, like “which person has the top score?” Now, you can ask Google to make a chart or graph. So, for example, you could type “histogram of 2017 customer ratings” or “bar chart for ice cream sales” and receive that visual image in return. You can then instantly insert it into your sheet.
Today’s update will also let you sync data to tables from your Sheets to Google Docs or Slides. You can copy and paste your Sheets data to Docs or Slides and tap “update” to keep it synced. A new charts sidebar is launching, too, that allows for the creation of 3D charts. It’s available on iPhones and iPads, as well.
The print interface is also being refreshed so you can adjust margins, select scale and alignment options, or repeat frozen rows and columns before sending to the printer. Spreadsheet updates aren’t always the most exciting, but honestly, less time spent making charts is a positive for everyone.
This should have been a big launch for Google.
The release of the Samsung Chromebook Pro was going to be the opening salvo in 2017's battle of the cheap computers. It went on sale on May 28th, priced at $549.99. It's a handsome and thin touchscreen laptop that looks like it costs twice as much as it does. Because it also comes with a stylus and performs at speeds you don't usually get on Chrome OS, it should have been an inexpensive flagship that can prove that Chromebooks aren't just for students and couches, but could be your main computer.
The operative word there is "should." Because after a grand unveiling at CES, reality hit: the hardware wasn't finished in time, and the software still isn't finished. Even though it's now on sale and shipping to customers, the software has a memory bug that crashes the computer if you push it too hard. Until Google fixes it, you should hold off on buying this laptop. I’m holding off on reviewing it, too.
I found that if I open more than a dozen or so tabs or web apps, the Chromebook Pro can become unstable — the whole device will freeze or even restart. The problem is intermittent and seems worse if you happen to open an Android app or had opened and closed one since you last rebooted.
Although Android apps are still in beta, they’re available for regular users out of the box. In fact, one of the core features of the Chromebook Pro is annotating images in the Android version of Google Keep. That means you can’t use the key differentiating feature of the Chromebook Pro without causing crashes.
To be clear, the bug rears its head even if you never open an Android app — it just seems to be worse when you do. Until Google solves these problems, you can only use a fraction of the Chromebook Pro's capabilities without risking a freeze-up. Google says it’s working on the software fix.
What I should have been doing this week is judging this laptop by a new standard: standing toe-to-toe against Windows 10 S and the iPad as a complete vision for the next generation of simplified, secure, yet nevertheless powerful computing.
Instead of doing that, I’m doing this: telling you that the Chromebook Pro was delayed, that the main thing we were hoping it would do (Android apps) is still months away from being any good, and the people who ordered it on day one are going to experience a critical bug that breaks their experience until Google issues a patch.
Earlier this month, I wrote that Google prefers slow and steady iteration to flashy, change-the-world product releases. That slow and steady approach is admirable in its way and may ultimately win the race for Chrome OS. But if you're going to take a measured approach to releasing products, you absolutely shouldn't be tripping over your own feet as you do it.
We’ll update this article and post a review of the Chromebook Pro when Google issues the patch.
Grado, a Brooklyn-based headphone manufacturer, has been pleasing audiophile ears for decades now with clean, unsweetened audio. To support the kids these days with their fancy iPods and Walkmans, the company has released a few lower-end and even in-ear models that are competitive on price while staying true to Grado sound priorities — even if build quality is a bit suspect at times.
But now it's time to return to Grado's roots: all the sound that money can buy. The PS2000e are Grado's new "flagship" headphones, and they’ve been in development at the company for two years. Unlike their predecessor, the PS1000e, which wrapped an inner chamber of mahogany with metal, the PS2000e have a maple wood core. This $2,695 beast also has a new driver design and a new diaphragm geometry, all with the purpose of making the music as uncolored as possible.
Grado claims it put "all the best stuff" in its new flagship, and leaned on "three generations of Grado family" to make its best pair of headphones yet. Will they sound $1,000 better than the PS1000e? I wouldn't mind finding out.
The PS2000e are available now.
Niantic says it’s making lots of money off sponsored Pokémon Go stops and particularly cashed out during the height of the game’s popularity last year. In interviews with Brazil’s Globo paper and TechCrunch, Niantic said that it charges anywhere from 15 to 50 cents for each visitor that the game draws to a sponsored location. There’s some uncertainty about the exact cost of a visit, but the figures imply that Niantic could be making millions of dollars off players.
Niantic VP of strategic partnerships Mathieu de Fayet told Globo that its partners pay 15 cents for every visitor, and that the company has already attracted 500 million visitors around the world. Every activated McDonald’s store in Japan attracted up 2,000 visitors a day, he says.
When Techcrunch double-checked these numbers with the company, Niantic said that in actuality, sponsorships cost up to 50 cents per unique visit. Using Fayet’s 15 cent pricing and his 500 million visitors figure, that could translate to $75 million in revenue. At 50 cents per visit, that revenue would jump to $250 million.
In December, Niantic announced that it was partnering with Starbucks to turn 7,800 stores across the US into pokéstops or gyms. That deal coincided with the debut of a Pokémon Go-themed Frappuccino, which was designed to entice players. Sprint is also partnering with Niantic to turn 10,500 stores into gyms and pokéstops.
It isn’t clear how popular the game is following its viral release last summer, but still, over the past few months, Niantic launched new pokémon, debuted the game on the Apple Watch, and expanded to new markets. Pokémon Go’s publisher, The Pokémon Company, says following the release of this game and Game Freak’s Pokémon Sun and Moon, its profits rose to $143.3 million — nearly 26 times the profit it made the previous year. Clearly neither Niantic nor The Pokémon Company are going to let Pokémon Go die yet, especially if everyone’s still profiting big time.
Tesla fired the female engineer who earlier this year publicly made claims about “unwanted and pervasive harassment” at the electric carmaker, according to The Guardian. Tesla says it was justified in firing the engineer, AJ Vandermeyden, because her accusations were false, but Vandermeyden’s lawyers allege that it amounts to retaliation.
Vandermeyden, who was hired by Tesla in April 2013, said she found herself the subject of “unwanted and pervasive harassment” by the mostly male staff, including “inappropriate language, whistling, and cat calls,” according to the lawsuit. Despite performing work “equal in skill, effort, and responsibility,” Vandermeyden claims she was paid less than her male colleagues. Vandermeyden alleges she raised concerns about “inadequacies in the quality testing of cars,” but that she was ignored by her male superiors, and her attempts to implement solutions were thwarted.
Vandermeyden filed her lawsuit against Tesla last fall, but only spoke out publicly last February in an article published in The Guardian. At the time, she said she was concerned that the lawsuit would result in her eventual dismissal.
Tesla confirmed Vandermeyden’s firing in a statement to The Verge, saying it had conducted an independent, third-party review of her claims and determined that they were false. “Despite repeatedly receiving special treatment at the expense of others, Ms. Vandermeyden nonetheless chose to pursue a miscarriage of justice by suing Tesla and falsely attacking our company in the press,” a spokesperson said. “After we carefully considered the facts on multiple occasions and were absolutely convinced that Ms. Vandermeyden's claims were illegitimate, we had no choice but to end her employment at Tesla.”
But the story is unlikely to end there for Tesla. Vandermeyden’s lawyer told The Guardian that the automaker’s decision to fire her client “proves our case. It’s clear retaliation.” She added: “Somebody is trying to instill in employees that when they speak out about matters they are legally allowed to speak out about, they too will be fired.”
Gabrielle Toledano, Tesla’s new global head of HR, informed Vandermeyden of her termination personally. Vandermeyden was fired because she was “behaving in what the evidence indicates is a fundamentally false and misleading manner, not as a result of retaliation for the lawsuit,” the spokesperson said. “It is impossible to trust anyone after they have behaved in such a manner and therefore continued employment is also impossible.”
Vandermeyden’s story came to light at a time when Silicon Valley was reeling from numerous allegations of sexual discrimination and gender inequality. An ex-Uber engineer’s claims of sexism and harassment went viral in February, prompting Uber to launch an internal investigation. And in a separate lawsuit, the Department of Labor accused Google of systemic underpaying of its female employees.


I have a confession to make: I like books. This shouldn’t be a surprise to anyone who’s followed this monthly list, but I don’t mean just reading them. I’m fascinated by the form of a book, the book as a technology, and an object that’s changed how we transmit information from one person to another.
Recently, I came across a really interesting book put out by the Library of Congress: The Card Catalog: Books, Cards, and Literary Treasures. It’s a history of the card catalog, and it proves to be a really interesting look at not only the system itself, but also the history of public libraries in America. Plus, there are lots of really gorgeous pictures of catalog cards, which makes this book a delight to flip through if reading about the history isn’t your thing.
The card catalog system is one of those things that you don’t ever really think about, but while it seems like an obvious organizational method today, its creation was somewhat controversial at the time. More than that, it helped to cement the purpose of the Library of Congress as a resource for the nation’s libraries, not just a repository for the nation’s books.
The summer is the busy time for publishing, and accordingly, there are a ton of new books that will undoubtably end up in the Library of Congress — or at the very least, on your bookshelf.
Valerian: The Complete Collection, Vol 1. by Pierre Christin and Jean-Claude Mezieres
Luc Besson is set to release his adaptation of Pierre Christian’s French comic Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets in July, but if you’ve been intrigued by the trailers and can’t wait to check it out, the entire comic series is being rereleased in a series of omnibus editions, the first of which comes out today. This volume contains the first two books: The City of Shifting Waters and The Empire of a Thousand Planets. The book also includes some bonus features: interviews with the author, artist, and Besson.
Beren and Luthien by J.R.R. Tolkien
Tolkien’s estate has been steadily releasing new material from his papers, and the latest is one of the earliest stories in his Middle-earth series: Beren and Luthien. It’s a romance between two characters, Beren and Lúthien, and it is based loosely on Tolkien’s own relationship with his wife Edith.
A Peace Divided by Tanya Huff
In this second installment of Tanya Huff’s Peacekeeper series, Gunnery Sergeant Torin Kerr has walked away from the Confederation Marine Corps after learning what she was fighting for. But she’s not abandoning her mission: she’s assembled a group of loyal friends to take on missions that the Corps wouldn’t. When an archeological team is taken hostage, Torin’s team is sent in, only to find that their mission is far more complicated than previously thought. Publisher’s Weekly calls the book a “fast-paced thriller bristling with treachery and intrigue.”
Necessary Monsters by Richard A. Kirk
A convicted thief and bibliophile, Lumsden Moss, escaped from prison, and found an opportunity to steal a rare book from the man who put him away. Unfortunately, that’s painted a target on his back from some very bad people, and he’s now on the run. The book contains some secrets from a cursed and long-lost island, in a world where magic and technology are inseparable.
The Rebellion’s Last Traitor by Nik Korpon
Decades of war has shattered Eitan City, and to help restore order, the Tathadann Party rewrites history by outlawing the past. One man, Henraek, is a memory thief, stealing memories from civilians, until he harvests a memory of his own wife’s death. Now, he’s going to do whatever it takes to discover the truth about her killing, even if it means turning on the people he was most loyal to.
Supreme Villainy: A Behind-the-Scenes Look at the Most (In)Famous Supervillain Memoir Never Published by King Oblivion and Matt D. Wilson
King Oblivion, PhD is the most famous supervillains in the world, and as the CEO of the International Society of Supervillains, he’s responsible for Nixon’s election, the theft of Japan (the entire country), the Star Wars prequel trilogy, and quite a bit more. Author Matt D. Wilson discovered Oblivion’s moldering manifesto in one of his lairs, and with a bit of editing, has published them into a tell-all about the late author’s life.
The Sandcastle Empire by Kayla Olson
Eden’s life was easy before the war. But in 2049, the militant Wolfpack gang controls the Earth and its resources, and Eden knows the location of the last neutral place left, Sanctuary Island. She escapes a labor camp and travels to the island, where she meets others who resist the Wolves. But when her friend goes missing, she discovers that the Sanctuary is more dangerous than it appears. The film rights for the book have already been snapped up by Leonardo DiCaprio.
The Refrigerator Monologues by Catherynne M. Valente
Catherynne Valente has written a number of really unique and interesting novels, and in this latest, she turns her attention to the women of superhero comics. This book is a series of linked stories from the wives and girlfriends of superheroes, as well as female heroes and sidekicks, who have been kicked out of the way to help their male counterpart’s story move forward.
The Sacred Era by Yoshio Aramaki, translated by Baryon Tensor Posadas
In the 1970s, Yoshio Aramaki wrote one of the best-known works of Japanese science fiction, The Sacred Era. Set in a post-apocalyptic world, a student named K journeys to the capital of the Holy Empire to take The Sacred Examination, which will qualify him for metaphysical research service in the court. He’s assigned to a secret department, which sends him on the path of an executed heretic on an interplanetary journey.
The Black Elfstone by Terry Brooks
Terry Brooks is bringing his epic Shannara series to a close with a four-part mini-series, The Fall of Shannara. The Black Elfstone is the first installment, and sees an unknown enemy threatening the peace that has lasted for generations. A party is dispatched to investigate this threat and to figure out how to save the Four Lands.
Wilders by Brenda Cooper
The first installment of the new Project Earth series, Wilders follows Coryn Williams, who grew up in the megacity of Seacouver. While everything is provided in Seacouver, she’s unhappy. So when her parents commit suicide, she decides to search for her sister, who left the city to join a “rewilding” crew that works to restore the land. When she leaves the city, Coryn finds that life is far more dangerous than she expected, and discovers a plot that could threaten her home.
The Space Between the Stars by Anne Corlett
In this debut novel, Jamie Allenby just wants to go to space. She emigrates from Earth and finds work on a distant frontier planet, coping with the loneliness of space when a virus decimates the local population. A garbled message from home gives her some hope that someone from her past might still be alive, and along with a band of survivors, they return home to find that in their absence, they’ve changed just as much as Earth has.
Prey of the Gods by Nicky Drayden
South Africa has a promising future in Nicky Drayden’s debut novel, Prey of the Gods. People have personal robots, the poor are helped by renewable energy initiatives, and genetic engineering has opened up a huge industry in the region. There are some problems on the horizon, however, such as a new hallucinogenic drug and an AI uprising. It’s up to a powerful Zulu girl, a mind-reading teenager, a pop singer, and a politician to help save the country.
Soleri by Michael Johnston
Michael Johnston’s new epic fantasy draws from Egyptian history. In it, the ruling family of the Soleri Empire hasn’t been seen for centuries, but they rule the four kingdoms with a tight grip. When an expected eclipse doesn’t occur, political infighting  begin to tear apart a dynasty that’s stood for millennia.
The Changeling by Victor LaValle
Victor LaValle made a splash recently with horror novella The Ballad of Black Tom. His latest novel begins with a new father, Apollo Kagwa, dreaming of his childhood. When his wife abruptly vanishes, he goes on a quest to find her, which leads him to fantastic places that connect back to his own missing father. Kirkus Reviews gave it a coveted star rating, saying that “LaValle has successfully delivered a tale of wonder and thoughtful exploration of what it means to be a parent.”
Raven Stratagem by Yoon Ha Lee
Yoon Ha Lee’s debut novel Ninefox Gambit earned a pair of Hugo and Nebula nominations, and its follow-up, Raven Stratagem, picks up right after its end. Captain Kel Cheris has summoned Shuos Jedao, a long-dead general, to put down a rebellion, only to be possessed by the ghost. At the same time, aliens known as the Hafn are invading, and Jedao might be the only person who can stop them. Lee’s take on space opera and military science fiction was intriguingly different, and this new book looks just as exciting. Publisher’s Weekly awarded the book a star rating, calling it “a stunning sequel,” saying that it “contains a satisfying mixture of interstellar battles, politics, intrigue, and arcane technology.”
Down Among the Sticks and Bones by Seanan McGuire
McGuire recently earned a Nebula Award and a Hugo nomination for her novella Every Heart A Doorway, which is part of her Wayward Children series. This is the story of what happened to Jack and Jill before they arrived at Eleanor West’s Home for Wayward Children. Jacqueline is quiet and police, while Jillian is a thrill-seeker. As children, they discover an impossible staircase and step into a fantastic world complete with vampires and mad scientists. The novella earned a star rating from Publisher’s Weekly, which described the novel as an “exquisitely written fairy tale ... about the choices that can alter the course of a life forever.”
Want by Cindy Pon
Set in a near-future Taipei, Jason Zhou lives in a world where only the wealthy can afford to stay alive, protected by suits from pollution and disease. He’s resolved to change things after his mother dies. Along with a group of friends, he infiltrates the ranks of the wealthy in an attempt to destroy the Jin Corporation, which manufactures the suits that the rich rely on. Along the way, he falls for the daughter of the company’s CEO, Daiyu, and he’s forced to choose between his heart and his values.
Cormorant Run by Lilith Saintcrow
Years ago, there was an event — something that opened up a void, killing everyone inside of it. Those who enter are known as Rifters, who often come back with fantastic technologies. Svinga is one such Rifter, and she’s hauled out of prison to search for a legendary piece of technology, the Cormorant. It’s a dangerous mission, but she has plans of her own.
Slaves of the Switchboard of Doom by Bradley W. Schenck
This novel imagines the future as predicted in the 1939 World Fair, complete with mad scientists, robots, rocket engineers, and space pirates. It’s an homage to the era of pulp fiction, and when the Info-Slate switchboard operators are abruptly fired, Nola Gardner hires freelance adventurer Kelvin “Dash” Kent to find out why. When they dig deeper, they find that there’s a plot in play that threatens the entire city of Retropolis.
Our Dark Duet by Victoria Schwab
In this sequel to Victoria Schwab’s novel This Savage Song, Kate Harker is a monster hunter who was thrown together with a monster named August Flynn. Six months later, the war between humanity and monsters has come, and the two are pitted against one another. However, there’s a new, terrifying monster that’s emerged from the shadows, one that will test them all.
The Witch Who Came In From The Cold by Lindsay Smith, Max Gladstone, Cassandra Rose Clarke, Ian Tregillis, and Michael Swanwick
Serial Box is a publisher that’s been releasing serialized stories online for a couple of years now, and their latest, The Witch Who Came In From The Cold, is an intriguing spy thriller set at the height of the Cold War. Now collected into a single volume, the story follows spies and sorcerers in 1970s Prague, holding the balance of the East and West in their hands. Publisher’s Weekly gave the book a star rating, noting that the individual “installments are easy to read one at a time, but the tangles of alliances, secrets, and shocking double-crosses will have readers up all night mumbling, ‘Just one more.’”
The Rise and Fall of D.O.D.O.: A Novel by Neal Stephenson and Nicole Galland
Neal Stephenson has teamed up with historical novelist Nicole Galland (they previously worked on Mongoliad) for a new novel: The Rise and Fall of D.O.D.O. Set in the near future, Melisandre Stokes, a linguistics and language expert, is approached by the military to translate some old documents. What they contain is earth-shattering: they prove that magic existed before the scientific revolution, and that the industrial revolution essentially weakened magic. The Department of Diachronic Operations has a plan and a device: they want to bring magic back, and to send an operative back in time to ensure that magic never went away in the first place. Kirkus Reviews gave the book a star rating, saying that the book is a “departure for both authors and a pleasing combination of much appeal to fans of speculative fiction.”
Virology by Ren Warom
In this follow-up to Ren Warom’s Escapology, Shock Pao opened up the virtual world known as the Slip, and with some stolen tech, he’s the one in charge of the world’s systems. That’s put a target on his back, and he’s running out of places to hide.
The Strange Case of the Alchemist's Daughter by Theodora Goss
Theodora Goss is an acclaimed short story writer, and in her debut novel The Strange Case of the Alchemist's Daughter, she mashes up a bunch of classic science fiction characters. Mary Jekyll, daughter of Dr. Henry Jekyll, is orphaned, and she decides to go after her father’s murderer, Edward Hyde. She comes across Hyde’s daughter Diana, and with the help of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson, she finds other women who were created through experiments: Beatrice Rappaccini, Catherin Moreau, and Justine Frankenstein. Along the way, she comes across a secret society of mad scientists, and it’s time for the monsters to take on their creators.
Transformation by James Gunn
James Gunn (not the director of Guardians of the Galaxy) is one of the last authors from the original golden age of science fiction, and with Transformation, he brings to a close a trilogy that he opened with Transcendental and Transgalactic. Riley and Asha crossed the galaxy, discovered the Transcendental Machine, and have been turned into something more than human. The worlds at the end of the Federation have gone quiet, and they’re dispatched to investigate. Along with a planetary AI, a Federation agent, and a member of a group bent on destroying the AI, they have to come together to fend off a more powerful threat than the Transcendentals. Clarkesworld Magazine spoke with Gunn about the series last year, if you want to know more.
Indigo by Charlaine Harris, Christopher Golden, Jonathan Maberry, Kelley Armstrong, Kat Richardson, Seanan McGuire, Tim Lebbon, Cherie Priest, James A. Moore, and Mark Morris
What stands out about Indigo is the fact that it was written by 11 separate authors. The collaborative novel follows Investigative reporter Nora Hesper who moonlights as Indigo, a vigilante who can manipulate shadows. She’s after a cult called the Children of Phonos, and after one battle, she learns a secret from a dying cultist that makes her question her own origins.
Mapping the Interior by Stephen Graham Jones
Last month, we posted an excerpt from Stephen Graham Jones’ upcoming novella, and we’re really excited to dig into it. The story is about a 15-year-old boy who catches a glimpse of someone he thinks is his mysteriously deceased father. When he investigates, he discovers that his house is much bigger and more dangerous than he imagined. Publisher’s Weekly says that “the immediacy of Jones’s fiction is wonderfully refreshing and not to be missed.”
Shattered Minds by Laura Lam
Laura Lam returns to her futuristic world of Pacifica, which we last saw in her novel False Hearts. Carina was a biohacker who became disillusioned with her work on brain recording and the disturbing things she saw. She quits and becomes addicted to Zeal, and acts out horrific fantasies in the digital dream world. When a co-worker sends her pictures of a murdered girl and is then killed by her former employer, Carina has to track down the clue to the murder, a case that could have a profound impact on herself and the world.
The Last Good Man by Linda Nagata
One of my favorite trilogies of all time is Linda Nagata’s three The Red novels, a near-future, military science fiction series. She’s returning to military SF with The Last Good Man, about former Army pilot True Brighton. Brighton is employed at a private military company called Requisite Operations, which uses robots, artificial intelligence, and big data to enhance soldiers in the field. When she makes a scientific breakthrough, it leaves her questioning everything. Publisher’s Weekly gave the book a coveted star rating, saying that the book is a “thrilling novel that lays bare the imminent future of warfare.”
Godblind by Anna Stephens
A thousand ago, the Mireces were exiled from Rilpor for worshipping the bloodthirsty Red Gods. When Rillirin, an escaped Mireces slave, arrives at the border, she threatens to undo the life that Watcher Dom Templeson has set up, letting his followers learn some of his darkest secrets. And as political tensions within Rilpor flare, the Mireces are plotting to return.
Unbreakable by Will McIntosh
Will McIntosh has written some of my favorite science fiction novels, and for his latest, Unrbeakable, he’s turning to self-publishing. Celia has never left the walls of her town: all she knows of it is that there’s an audience out there that come in once a week to watch her and her fellow residents attempt to break world records. A friend of hers is dying, and she escapes to help him. Aided by a mysterious stranger and a hostile clown, she’s going to be pushed to her limits in a strange new world.
The Waking Land by Callie Bates
In this debut novel from Callie Bates, a girl named Elanna Valtai grew up in the court of King Antoine, a hostage to keep her father in check. She discovers that she has fantastic powers: she can make flowers grow in her hands, and more. However, magic has been forbidden ever since her home was conquered by the Paladis Empires two centuries ago. When the King is murdered, she flees to her homeland when she’s accused, only to find that that she no longer recognizes her home.
The Bones of the Earth by Rachel Dunne
The next entry in Rachel Dunne’s Bound Gods series, a priest named Joros has assembled a team of fighters to win the coming fight for control of the world and its mortal residents.  In the preceding novel, In the Shadow of the Gods, Joros and his company burned the hand of one of the evil twin gods, Fratarro, and they’re dealing with the outcome. As they lick their wounds, Joros has to try and hold the group together, because things are going to get much harder from here on out.
Spoonbenders by Daryl Gregory
Daryl Gregory’s has written some fantastic novels in his career, and his next looks to be just as interesting. Teddy Telemachus conned his way into a classified governmental study about telekinesis, where he met his wife, Maureen McKinnon, a real psychic. They marry, have children, and make their way around the country as performers. Then, everything changes. After withdrawing from the public eye, they’re forced to use their powers to protect themselves from criminals, the government, and the general public.
Escape Velocity by Jason M. Hough
Jason Hough’s novel Injection Burn came out earlier this week, but you won’t have long to wait for its sequel: Escape Velocity comes out at the end of June. In the first novel, Skyler Luiken is the captain of a starship headed to a distant planet to make it through the Swarm Blockage and rescue them. Along the way, they discover fellow ship captain Gloria Tsandi and her crews on the same mission.
In this second novel, they (spoilers) make their way through the Blockage, but but now they have to contend with enemies on the ground, and the return back to Earth.
Everyone's a Aliebn When Ur a Aliebn Too by Jomny Sun
An alien lands on Earth and finds that he’s incredibly lonely, and works to make himself at home when he realizes that he’s not quite alone. Along the way, he finds a whole bunch of other creatures who in strange places in their lives, such as a bear who’s sad that everyone runs away from him, and a tadpole who’s contending with turning into a frog. The book is based off of the popular Twitter account, @jonnysun.
Amatka by Karin Tidbeck
Swedish writer Karin Tidbeck has written some of the best fantastic fiction that I’ve ever read. If you haven’t read her collection of Weird short stories, Jagganath, do yourself a favor and pick it up immediately. Now, her novel Amatka has been translated into English for the first time. An information assistant named Vanja goes to the winter colony of Amatka to collect some intelligence on behalf of the government. However, something strange is going on, and as her visit lengthens, she discovers evidence of a plot and coverup that threatens the colony.
The Witchwood Crown by Tad Williams
The first installment of the new Osten Ard series from Tad Williams is set more than 30 years after the last installment of the series, To Green Angel Tower. An envoy to the rulers of Osten Ard is attacked and left for dead, and dark rumors are swirling around the kingdom about forbidden magic. War is coming, all while King Simon works to prevent his kingdom from falling into chaos. Kirkus Reviews gave the book a star rating, saying that it’s a “richly described, meticulously plotted, and multilayered narrative tapestry featuring a diversity of adeptly developed characters and multiple storylines, this is flawless epic fantasy.”
The Pokémon Company had a very good year in 2016. Following the release of Niantic’s Pokémon Go and Game Freak’s Pokémon Sun and Moon, the company’s net profit soared to $143.3 million — nearly 26 times the profit it made the previous year, according to Katan Games, Inc. CEO and analyst Serkan Toto.
In a breakdown on his site, Toto recounts profits for the previous five years. (Fiscal years close at the end of February.) The 2015 fiscal year drew in only $5.6 million. Of the last five fiscal years, the highest profits came in 2014, where the company reported $18.4 million in profits.
Speaking to The Verge via email, Toto points to Pokémon Go as the “key factor” for the sharp rise. “It's widely known that if a developer lands a big hit on mobile, the profitability is much higher than for other platforms,” Toto says. “Some publicly traded mobile-game makers in Japan, for example, regularly boast operating profit margins of 40 percent and higher.”
The Pokémon Company is in charge of the overall brand, while companies like Game Freak or Niantic may develop specific games. Niantic published Pokémon Go, while Nintendo frequently distributes other Pokémon games. Over the last five years, the series’s catalog includes the launch of Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, Pokémon X and Pokémon Y, and Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. “Sure, Sun and Moon was selling even better than those titles last fiscal,” Toto says, “but the games were not that huge.”
The company’s net profit places it higher than many other game studio in Japan, he added, “except for the few lucky mobile-app makers on the very top of the pyramid.”
“I think that thanks to Pokémon Go being a mobile title and Niantic getting better at live operations (at servicing, updating, tweaking the game), The Pokémon Company will continue to enjoy handsome profits over the next years.”
Verizon is the exclusive US carrier of Motorola’s new Moto Z2 Play, but if you take a close look at the phone, you’ll notice something missing: there’s no Droid branding anywhere. Motorola has been Verizon’s closest partner on the Droid family of products for years. Just take a look at this history.
But not this time.
On last year’s Moto phones, the Droid logo had a prominent position right beneath the camera lens. But it’s nowhere to be found on the Moto Z2 Play, and none of the marketing material from Motorola (or Verizon) make any mention of the long-running brand.
“We'll continue using the Droid name on future smartphones when it makes sense,” a Verizon spokesperson told The Verge by email. Your guess is as good as mine on why Verizon and Motorola decided that it didn’t make sense for this particular phone. If Motorola’s not going to be making these things from now on, what company will?
Verizon’s Droid effort made its debut in 2009 with an aggressive advertising campaign directly targeted at the iPhone. Apple’s smartphone was still exclusive to AT&T at the time, so Verizon needed some way of firing back. The headline feature of the original, Motorola-made Droid smartphone was its landscape slide-out keyboard. Verizon promoted that Droid and subsequent models with dark, sci-fi themed commercials. On some phones, users would be greeted by a glowing red eye when they powered up the devices. And then there was the signature, robotic “Drrrroooiiiiidddd” alert tone.
The Droid fleet represented some of the iPhone’s earliest credible competition. Before Samsung came to dominate the Android platform, many US consumers referred to all Android devices as Droids. But the brand no longer enjoys that type of mindshare, which might’ve led to Motorola wanting to shed it after all these years. “We have a great relationship with Motorola and are excited about the future of the Moto Z lineup, including the upcoming Moto Z2 Play and new Moto Mods,” the Verizon spokesperson said.
Now the question becomes who’s next? When will it “make sense” to revive the Droid?
Since there’s no telling when we’ll see another, let us reminisce with some of the most absurd ads for this line of phones.
Launch hype. “What in the world is that?”:
One of countless sci-fi ads:
Samsung made a Droid smartphone once, too:
“It’s not an upgrade to your phone. It’s an upgrade to yourself”:
This one couldn’t have been cheap to produce:
James Franco did one:
So did Ed Norton:
More recent ads focused less on robots and more on practical features:
Apple today announced that its education programming iPad app, Swift Playgrounds, will soon support robots and drones. That means young kids and students will be able to write their own Swift code to control any number of real-world toys and machines. The company is launching the feature next Monday, partnering with a number of top toy and robotics companies including LEGO, automated BB-8 toy maker Sphero, and drone company Parrot. Other companies on board for the launch are toy robot makers UBTECH and Wonder Workshop, as well as Skoog, the maker of a music cube that relies on Swift code to teach children how to compose songs.
Swift Playgrounds, launched last year during Apple’s 2016 Worldwide Developers Conference, is effectively a video game that teaches kids how to code using Apple’s Swift programming language. It breaks down how code functions at the most fundamental level and uses colorful environments and visual guides — product manager Tim Triemstra even uses the game industry term “cutscenes” — to explain the effects of code and the power of programming. The code appears on the left side of the iPad screen, either automated by the app to teach a lesson or typed in directly by the user, while an animation the code can manipulate plays out on the right.
Since the Playgrounds launch, Apple has partnered with a number of educational institutions around the country to get Swift built into introductory computer science curriculums and to make its Playgrounds app a fixture in classrooms. The company says Playgrounds has amassed 1 million unique users since launch. “When we were designing Swift, from the very first days we wanted it to be everyone’s first programming language,” Triemstra says. “We wanted it to be approachable.”
Now, with a significant number of Playground users and Swift picking up steam as a lightweight and more elegant way to build iOS apps, Apple is trying to expand its educational focus from software to hardware. Because Playgrounds will support all manner of robotics, including flying drones, the company hopes it will give young kids a whole new reason to engage with programming and learn the secrets of code. It could also do wonders for the popularity of Swift among the next generation of coders, and help cement the language as a fixture for young and eager roboticists.
Given the popularity of success of the Mindstorms robotics series, it’s a no-brainer that Apple got LEGO onboard for Playgrounds. In a demo at the iPhone maker’s Cupertino office, a LEGO representative broke down exactly how a Mindstorms EV3 kit can work with Playgrounds, connecting any number of robot-controlling modules to an iPad via Bluetooth. From there, you can see real-time data provided by the robots’ actuators, motors, and sensors, as well as program commands for fleshed out LEGO bots to receive and carry out. In preparation for the partnership, LEGO says it’s also designed 10 hours of lessons specifically for the Playgrounds app for kids to run through with a Mindstorms kit.
Similarly, Sphero’s transparent SPRK+ orb, which is already used to teach kids elements of robotics and programming, will work with the app. Kids will be able to program movements and games for the orb, with exercises breaking down the step-by-step process of development, including a real-world Pong game they can play with their feet as the paddles and the SPRK+ as the ball.
French drone maker Parrot is also buying into Apple’s new Playgrounds initiative, adding support for its Mambo, Rolling Spider, and Airborne drones. In another demo at Apple’s offices, a Parrot representative showed off how the Playgrounds app can be used to input commands for the drones to turn, flip in midair, and land in the palm of a user’s hand.
Apple stresses that none of these new features and hardware tie-ins for Playground are dependent on brand new or tie-in hardware. With LEGO, all you need is a Mindstorms EV3 kit, released as far back as 2013. The same goes for Sphero’s SPRK+ and Parrot’s trio of drones — so long as you have the supported product, it will sync with Playgrounds and allow you to start controlling it with your own code.
For the third time, scientists have detected gravitational waves — the ripples in space-time created by objects moving throughout the Universe.
The discovery was made once again by LIGO, or the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory Scientific Collaboration — the same team that last year made headlines for measuring gravitational waves for the first time in history. With each new detection, LIGO further solidifies that its measurements are sound, not just statistical blips. And now, researchers are starting to use these detections to learn more about distant space objects, as well as spot trends that they didn’t quite expect to see.
“There’s a famous saying: once is chance, twice is coincidence, and thrice is a pattern,” Bangalore Sathyaprakash, a physicist at Penn State and Cardiff University, as well as the lead author on a new study about the detection, tells The Verge. “We are seeing a pattern now.”
Similar to the first two detections, the latest gravitational waves LIGO measured stemmed from two dense black holes chaotically merging billions of light-years away. Black holes don’t just simply come together when they merge; they rapidly spin around each other — up to several times per second — before joining to form one single super-dense object. These rotations produce ripples in the fabric of space and time, which then move throughout the Universe at the speed of light. These latest waves, detailed in a new paper that will be published in the journal Physical Review Letters, traveled from a merger nearly 3 billion light-years away before reaching LIGO’s wave-detecting observatories on January 4th.
Though all three of LIGO’s detections have been from black hole mergers, each event was unique. The first detection came from fairly massive black holes, while the second pair were much smaller. This new merger fits right in the middle: the black holes were around 19 and 31 times the mass of our Sun, which is still pretty massive, according to Sathyaprakash. Prior to LIGO’s first detection, scientists didn’t think many black holes bigger than 20 solar masses existed. Now not only we know they exist, but they may be pretty common. “There is a population of heavy black holes out there and LIGO has started seeing them,” says Sathyaprakash. “I think we will detect more and more as we go along.”
Today, gravitational waves are no longer a novelty but a new tool for studying the cosmos. But up until LIGO’s first detection, gravitational waves were the last big unconfirmed part of Albert Einstein’s theory of general relativity. That theory, which came out in 1916, revolutionized our understanding of the Universe, by combining space and time together into a single concept known as space-time. Einstein theorized that objects actually leave imprints on the space-time around them — and when objects move, they create ripples in space-time, similar to how a moving object creates ripples in a pond.
Technically, every object that moves — from a person to a planet — creates these ripples. But the waves you and I produce are so small they’re basically impossible to detect. LIGO is designed to pick up waves coming from the most massive objects in the Universe moving at rapid speeds. The mergers of black holes or neutron stars — dense leftovers of stars that have collapsed — produce gargantuan waves that can be picked up from Earth. But by the time they reach our planet, they’ve diminished substantially, making them extremely difficult to measure.
Fortunately, LIGO’s two observatories in Washington and Louisiana are sensitive enough to do the trick. Each observatory is shaped like an L, with “arms” made of vacuum-sealed tubes that run 2.5 miles long. At the end of each tube is a suspended mirror, and where the arms meet, there's a laser pointed to each mirror. Whenever a gravitational wave passes, the ends of each L are warped differently, making it seem like one mirror is getting closer to the source of the laser while the other is getting farther away. LIGO can pick up this phenomenon by timing how long it takes the laser to hit each mirror. LIGO is so precise that it can pick up changes that are 1,000 times smaller than the size of a proton.
The three detections we have from LIGO are already changing scientists’ ideas about how massive black holes can get — much more massive than people thought possible.
It all has to do with where these objects came from. The black holes that LIGO has been observing are thought to be the leftover remnants of dead stars that have used up all their fuel and collapsed. And the masses of these black holes are largely dictated by the stars they came from, which depends a lot on where and when the stars formed. For instance, the first stars that emerged just after the Big Bang — about 14 billion years ago — differ a lot from those that formed much later.
The earliest stars were made up of only the lightest elements, hydrogen and helium — the first elements to form. But as the stars evolved, they eventually created heavier elements inside their cores through nuclear fusion reactions. At some point, those heavier elements were expelled throughout the Universe when the stars exploded and became the initial ingredients for the next generation of stars. That means the stars that formed more recently are richer in these heavier elements, like carbon and nitrogen.
The amount of heavy elements a star has is thought to affect how that star evolves over time. Heavier elements absorb a lot more radiation, according to Sathyaprakash. That energizes the elements, giving them enough momentum to be thrown off the star. That means if a star is made up of a lot of heavier elements, it is more likely to lose mass than a star that is made up of pristine hydrogen and helium.
Most people assumed that the black holes LIGO saw would come from stars rich in heavy elements, meaning they probably would never exceed 20 times the mass of our Sun. But now that LIGO has detected at least three black holes more massive than that, Sathyaprakash says it’s possible there are a lot more stars out there made of lighter elements. Perhaps the observatories are spying much older stars that were formed closer to the Big Bang. Either way, people are rethinking their models. “There are some people who did think heavier black holes could form, but they were in a minority,” says Sathyaprakash. “So the past detection of black holes by LIGO was a turning point in astrophysics.”
The LIGO collaboration is using this latest detection to figure out more details about the two black holes that created the latest waves. For instance, the signals hold clues as to how the holes were spinning up until the point they merged. And that, in turn, paints a picture of how the merger occurred in the first place.
When black holes merge, there are three types of rotations involved: the two holes each rotate individually and they revolve around each other. If both the black holes rotate in the same general direction as how they’re revolving around each other, then they’re considered aligned, according to Laura Cadonati, a LIGO collaborator and professor of physics at Georgia Institute of Technology. However, if one black hole is spinning in the opposite direction of the other, then they’re not aligned.
The LIGO researchers can try to determine the black holes’ alignment by studying the gravitational wave signal a bit more closely. If aligned, the black holes take slightly longer to merge than expected. That’s because the aligned orbits would create more rotational energy, making it harder for the holes to come together. “It takes a little bit longer,” says Cadonati. “They do another couple dances around each other.” In the case of the latest detection, the wave signal indicates that these black holes were not in alignment when they merged.
And that tells scientists a bit about how the black holes might have come together. If the black holes stemmed from a two-star system, where the stars were already orbiting around each other, then chances are the orbits would be aligned. However, this signal seems to indicate that these black holes came from stars that formed separately, but within the same stellar cluster. They then slowly came together over time. “It’s just a hint [that this happened]; we cannot say with certainty,” says Cadonati. “But if this becomes the pattern — if we see more of this — that will be a more definitive statement.”
LIGO spotted these most recent gravitational waves during an observational run that started on November 30th, 2016 and will continue through the end of the summer. So it’s possible we’ll hear about even more detections soon enough, as LIGO continues to look through the data. Once the current observational run ends, though, the next one doesn’t start up again until 2018. During that down time, the team will be doing technical upgrades to the observatories to make them even more sensitive. That means even more detections could be on their way, allowing LIGO to learn more about how massive objects merge billions of light-years away.
“It’s only three detections so far, so it’s only the beginning,” says Sathyaprakash. “But with this detection we are sending a message to the world that we are here to do gravitational wave astronomy.”


Amazon is rolling out an update to Alexa today that will bring a couple of critical new features that probably should’ve been included when it launched two years ago. Reminders and named timers are both rolling out today, helping to improve Alexa’s usefulness in your daily routine.
You can now say “Alexa, remind me to take out the trash at 6PM,” and it will notify you at the proper time. Alexa still lacks context for AM / PM reminders and alarms (unlike Siri and Google Assistant), which is actively annoying, so don’t forget the abbreviation.
Just like alarms, reminders are tied to the device you set them on, so don’t expect to set a reminder in your office and hear it on the Echo in your kitchen just yet. And there isn’t a way to sync reminders with third party services like Todoist, so if you already have a list of reminders, you’ll have to manually add them to your Alexa.
Alexa now supports named timers as well, which will definitely come in handy in the event that you’re cooking multiple dishes. You can also check how much time is left on a certain timer by saying “Alexa, how much time is left on my lasagna timer,” and it will let you know.
The new features are rolling out today in the US, and will be available in the UK and Germany in the coming weeks.
Western animation is in the middle of a golden age. Shows like BoJack Horseman and Rick and Morty have emerged as the new standard-bearers for a kind of cartoon that’s sharp, funny, and insightful, capable of dealing with startlingly nuanced themes, like BoJack’s honest reflections on the nature of unhappiness. But few efforts in any medium can manage Steven Universe’s trick of exploring topics like intimacy, love, abuse, and the constant threat of annihilation, while balancing them with thoughts on the simple joy of eating a hot dog. The series started out as a slice-of-life show about a young boy and his magical family, but it’s emerged as one of the most daring, open-hearted series on television today.
The creative force behind the series is Emmy-nominated writer Rebecca Sugar, Cartoon Network’s first female showrunner. Originally a storyboard revisionist for Adventure Time, she broke out on her own to launch Steven Universe in 2013, blending her love of superheroes and magical-girl anime with a story about a kid not unlike her own little brother, Steven Sugar. Four years later, the show has gotten much more complicated; a recent arc sees Steven abducted by his alien enemies, and being put on trial for his mother’s ancient war crimes. But at its heart, the show is still very much about relationships and family in all their forms.
“The thing I always return to is that, for me, it’s about my relationship with my brother,” Sugar tells The Verge. “All of the gems are reflections of some piece of that. I try to always remember that it comes down to that feeling of being able to go home at the end of the day and hang out with your best friend, who’s also your brother. That’s the center point of bringing all these unrelated things together. They’re the things we share.”
Steven Universe doesn’t spark the kind of pop cultural conversations that shows like Game of Thrones spawn, but fan love — particularly online — has allowed it to reach a quiet kind of ubiquity, with comics, books, and video games regularly extending the story. Sugar does her best to be involved in all these projects, providing a unity of vision to something that’s slowly becoming its own expanded universe project. We spoke with Sugar about that vision, what fandom means to her, and where Steven is headed next.
Steven Universe is quietly exploding. What has it been like seeing the show grow into a bigger property?
It's been so exciting! The show is so video game inspired, so we knew we wanted to be very involved when [games company] Grumpyface started working on our first game, Attack the Light. There is so much that can be said about the characters that can be said so clearly in the form of a game. For example, we knew it had to be an RPG. In that game, everyone starts at a super-high level except for Steven, and Steven always defends and heals, but never attacks. You also get chances to chat with the Gems, and you have to choose who you're buddying up to at times. I love that stuff. Steven loves all the Gems, so there's no easy answer if you have to pick sides.
We've had the chance to build on those ideas so much more for the Save the Light, the upcoming console game. Now you get to choose who you're teaming up with, and the relationship-building aspect is way more important. It can build to special moves you can only do when certain characters team up with each other.
Is that freeing on your end, or more challenging?
It can be hard to juggle the extra projects with the show. There's not enough time in the day, but it's so worth it when we get to explain things in a new way in a new medium. I loved working on the Answer children's book, because of all the meta fairytale storytelling that could only work in the form of a book. Attack the Light felt like that, too, full of things only a game can do, and Save the Light even more so. Working with Grumpyface is very freeing, especially after doing the first game together. They totally know what I like, and they're running with the style we invented for the first game and expanding on it. Inventing a unique style for the first game was very challenging, but building on what we started and working in all the dreams we couldn't fit into the first game has been so, so fun.
My brother is also very involved. He’s excited that we’re actually getting to move around Beach City. He knows where everything is. There’s a feeling that Beach City has of being a real place, in part because it’s based off of the beaches that me and my brother used to visit as kids — Rehoboth Beach, Ocean City. But then Beach City specifically, everything has a specific place in Steven’s mind, and he knows that world like it’s real. Even when we’re discussing story ideas, he’ll be able to chime in and help us and say, “If they’re going to Vidalia’s, they need to make a left.” It’s a real world!
The show has gotten so popular over the last few years, particularly online. How has your relationship with fans evolved, and what does it look like right now?
It's overwhelming. I relate very, very much to the fans of the show, because growing up, I was a very extreme fan of cartoons. The cartoons I loved were such a huge source of strength for me. So with this show, I always wanted it to be something that could be a part of someone's life in that way, a source of strength.
These days, there's so much feedback online, I have a hard time absorbing all of it. It's dizzying. Mostly, I love to meet people in person when I can, at cons or events. I love when people tell me what the show means to them personally, which character they relate to and why. I feel I really get to know people so well, so suddenly. And when it's become an important part of someone's life, I feel so honored. Not everyone understands how a cartoon can mean that much to someone, but I really, truly understand.
There’s a sense that I used to have that there wasn’t really a legitimacy to that feeling. When you love and care about something, even if it’s the world silliest thing, [it] can have weight and be that source of comfort in a way that is beautiful enough to be reflected in a piece of art. And that kind of folds in on itself, because it’s being reflected in a piece of art that’s also a silly piece of art. So you end up in this vortex of beauty and silliness. I’ll spiral into it and sort of have days where I’m like, “This is everything I want to express as an artist,” and other days where I’ll be like, “Ah, that’s a wacky cartoon!” They’re important to me! I want the feeling of the comfort that you can get from a silly piece of pop culture to have the weight and beauty that it has for me in this piece of pop culture that we’re making together.
How have communities on platforms like Reddit and Tumblr shaped the show?
I really don’t believe it should be a one-sided conversation. There’s this book by Roland Barthes called A Lover’s Discourse, and in that book, he describes this concept called an “image-repertoire.” When you have a relationship with someone, your relationship is linked to an image of that person, and the [ideas] you associate with that person. It struck me, as a huge comic book fan, that the extreme love I had for the people who made my favorite comics — I was like, “This is what this is! This is an actual love for them, because I share an image-repertoire with them, except that they have never met me.” I feel that I know them very well, because I’ve shared something with them, but they don’t have anything to associate with me. That just explains everything, this very one-sided relationship I have with the people I’m a huge fan of.
So that made me think about comics and cartoons a little differently. I’m building an image-repertoire with someone; I’m speaking to someone. And I think there are several ways you can approach a conversation with someone. I mean, you could spend the whole conversation just talking about yourself and what you like, and you’re not interested in them or what they think, and that’s not a very good conversation. I want to always move that conversation forward.
“Mindful Education” was a big one for that, because there was so much happening to the well-being of the characters, and also within the fan community. I wanted to respond to it through the show, and I wanted to do that by giving people a tool to process and calm extreme feelings. I can see that people enjoyed feeling very extreme feelings, and I know that feeling of being like, “I love that this piece of entertainment can get me to that mood.” I want it to. I want to interact that way. I’ve always been that way, too. So I thought, “I want to give something where it actually moves you to a place of calm.”
From the start, the show has clearly been influenced by a wide variety of genres. But you've also injected video game culture and web culture, like with Steven's online tutorial shorts. What kind of things do you watch that translate well to your stories?
This really has everything to do with the show being from Steven's point of view. This almost comes down to, “What would Steven himself be watching, and playing, and what would he be participating in online?” He's so earnest, so when we come across something online that is incredibly earnest, it's easy to imagine Steven doing that, too. A reaction video, a song. We were all obsessed with an unboxing video where someone was reviewing these very specific Cheez-Its, and he was just so thorough and genuine about it. It made us want to have Steven do an unboxing. The most accurate Steven Universe tutorial short is actually Steven's snack sushi recipe, which is an homage to Cooking with Dog, but is also an actual recipe invented by my actual brother Steven Sugar. And it's really good!
As the series has evolved, you've done more to explore gender, relationships, and other more mature themes that other cartoons don't touch on. You've said before that you're not trying to make a point with the themes you explore, but do you think it's more important now to do that kind of work in animation than in previous years?
Yes. It's very important right now. Animation is such an incredible tool when it comes to making characters that the audience can empathize with. To watch an animated character and to believe that they're real requires the viewer to project so much of themselves into the drawings they're watching. With a cartoon, you can make something feel classic and iconic and absurdly simple. And so much of the preexisting language for cartoons is heavily gendered. For example, how many cartoon couples are two identical characters, except one has eyelashes and a bow? This is the time and this is the tool to expand people's visual language when it comes to what a couple looks like, and to create gender nonconforming characters that are so compelling that you can't deny their humanity. Because by believing in them, they are already a reflection of your humanity.
To me, exploring stories like that through a cartoon is everything I’m excited about. Cartoons are expected to be, and really need to be, simple and readable and clear. It’s already a lot to ask someone to look at a drawing and think it’s really alive. You need to be able to understand what their expressions mean, and that’s the skill of making a cartoon. So, trying to do subtle, complex stories within a cartoon is very challenging. But that’s what’s exciting about it. Seeing cartoon characters express real, complicated feelings that I’ve never seen a cartoon character emote, and trying to invent what that looks like — that is the fun of this thing. I think the only way to approach that is to tell stories that get characters to a place where you can see on their faces an expression of a feeling that other cartoons haven’t felt before.
What kind of new challenges and ideas will Steven face in the stories ahead?
Steven is really going to have to turn inward and face himself. Throughout the show, he's put everyone else first, and his main goal has been to become the person his family wants him to be. That's got to shift. He's got to accept that it's impossible to fill the shoes of his mother, Rose Quartz. She was always barefoot.
What’s exciting as we get deeper into the show is making him realize that there are the magic Gem powers, but there are powers that people have as human beings to understand themselves and define themselves and make their own choices. It’s an incredible power that we all have, and are often told to ignore or take for granted. Those are the kinds of powers I’m excited to have him learn how to explore.
Would you say the industry has changed much around you since you worked on Adventure Time?
It's changed completely! There is a demand now for different perspectives, for more diverse stories and characters, and for us to use our platform to make a better world for kids. I'm so honored to have had the chance to be working in TV while this shift has been happening. And there is a demand for the story arcs and character arcs we used to subtly thread from episode to episode on Adventure Time! And a home is brewing for the older cartoon audience that is so dear to my heart, the teens and adults that still love cartoons way too much. That is very new and very exciting.
I find that I’ve changed also. I’ve changed as I’ve been making the show, for so many reasons: learning from my team, doing so much art that I’ve told all the stories I’ve dreamed of telling, so now I’m gonna tell even more! And just trying to figure out what those are. I mean, the overarching process is that there’s so much within that, so many goals I’ve been able to hit on already in the show. For me, the show is a learning experience, and is part of me growing as a person, but obviously never arriving at being finished. I wanna do that with the audience, too.
Where do you foresee the industry going for new artists and animators who've come of age online? What can they expect?
I think it really depends on the artist and how they wanna make a piece of art. If you aren’t interested in art as a conversation, then the focus would be on avoiding outside influences in order to make something with the intent. My intent was to grow and to learn about myself and other people, and to forge relationships with the show. Me being a fan forged so many of my relationships. I guess in a way, what’s really hard for me is, I don’t get to necessarily be in that community. I would like to be. I would like to talk about the show, but I have to go elsewhere. Maybe talk about Riverdale. [Laughs]
I foresee an incredible era of totally new voices coming from totally new places. There are so many resources online, anything you would ever want to know about animation history, and tools for drawing and animating and sharing art that didn't exist before. This next generation of artists can expect that if they make comics, if they finish projects, if they have something truly new and interesting to say and they say it in a way that's entertaining, they will definitely be heard. And if they end up in a corporate setting, they can expect pushback when they're doing something new and innovative. First people will get excited, and then get nervous, because there's no proof what they're doing will work. But that's exactly why it will work.
It’s summer 2017 and the App Store is spilling over with fidget spinner apps. Their titles are largely uninspired, impossible to tell apart: Fidget Spinner, Fidget Spinner Toy, Fidget Hand Spinner, Fidget Spin. Most are lazy re-creations of the popular stress reliever. All are indicative of a larger trend in mobile gaming to identify and mass-produce the hot idea of the moment.
The fidget spinner — a cheap, easy-to-make object that you can pick up at your local bodega or gas station — exploded into popularity in late April. The toy, which comes in a variety of colors and shapes, has inspired techno music, phone cases, rocket-powered safety nightmares, and even the dry world of workplace art.
Fidget apps began to overflow in the App Store around mid-May. The rush to crank out clones and copies is a predictable aspect of the mobile ecosystem. Flappy Bird, Threes!, Pokémon Go: all of these games were followed by a surge of rushed rip-offs hoping to ride the wave of popularity and skim some cash in the process.
But fidget spinners are a strange take on this trend: a play off the popularity of a physical toy that serves very little purpose, translated into a digital app that does even less. The entire point of a fidget spinner is the tactile feel that no app can capture.
Earlier this month, Ketchapp’s Fidget Spinner was the top free app in the App Store; it’s since fallen to number six. The app isn’t a high-quality game or a good stress-releasing spinner toy. As my colleague Paul Miller explained, “The whole app is basically designed to minimize your time fidget spinning while maximizing ad impressions.”
Developer Ketchapp has a history of controversial apps. The company has been accused of cloning games like Sirvo’s Threes! and ustwo Games’ Monument Valley with 2048 and Skyward. Ketchapp disputes these claims. Last February, co-founder and co-director Antoine Morcos told Tech Insider that Skyward was a different type of game that didn’t fall into the same genre Monument Valley. His response to 2048’s similarities to Threes! Was that "all [car] racing games look the same.”
Today, Ketchapp exists under the umbrella of publisher Ubisoft. The company behind AAA franchises like Assassin’s Creed, Far Cry, and Watch Dogs acquired Ketchapp last year.
Fidget Spinner looks and functions like many other fidget spinner games in the App Store, but it’s hard to tell who’s mimicking who. It seems all parties are equally looking to cash in on a hot, albeit undoubtedly short-lived, trend. In an email to The Verge, Morcos says the idea was inspired by the popularity of real-life spinners. “Seeing [people] playing the Fidget Spinner everywhere has given us the idea to create a game based on this trend, that would be as addictive as the real toy,” he says. “We came up with something interesting and unique, the idea of spinning the fidget to earn coins, which in return would let you unlock new crazy models. Also, there is a concept of ‘the more you are good in spinning, the better you will improve the stats of your spinner over time.’”
Trend-chasing developers approach the market like gamblers: the more you play, the better your odds. A handful of creators have multiple fidget spinner games listed on their developer page, or attached to different accounts. Binh Nguyen’s iPhone apps, for example, include four fidget spinner-themed games: Tappy Fidget Spinner 3D & Challenge Games, Fidget Spinner!, Spinner Color Finger - Fidget Ping Pong Games, and Swing Fidget Spinner - Arcade Games.
All four games are listed under Binh Nguyen, but clicking the websites associated with each will take you on a wild goose chase. Tappy Fidget Spinner directs to an unfinished website, labeled “Games iOS 2017,” with images of men and women on a beach. Fidget Spinner! is a Facebook fan page for Five Keys Studio; Spinner Color Finger leads to a Facebook page for Five Keys Studio IOS Games, as does Swing Fidget Spinner. Both Facebook pages share the Five Keys logo with the Arts Game page, a website associated with Le Anh, which has its own Fidget Spinner game on the App Store, Flappy Fidget Spinner - Returns Classic Games — a clear knockoff of Flappy Bird, but with the popular toy.
Neptun Digital is another developer taking more than one bite from the same apple. It lists two games, Fidget Spinner - Finger Hand Spin Simulator and Fidget Spinner - Hand Spin Simulator; if you’re having trouble telling them apart, the former uses a red-and-gray color palette while the latter is primarily blue and gray. Neptun Digital is a team of five based in Slovenia. Their only other game on the App Store is called Jumping Fred!, a game starring a red-feathered fellow with an Angry Birds aesthetic. Aljosa Pavsic, the company’s CEO, said that creating these apps took less than a week to develop from scratch.
When asked what sets a game like Fidget Spinner - Finger Hand Spin Simulator apart from others in the App Store, Pavsic says, “Our game in comparison to others has multiple fidget spinners to play with simultaneously.” (In testing out a wide variety of fidget spinner games, The Verge found that several did offer a variety of spinners to choose from.)
“In a way,” Pavsic says, “all the fidget spinners on the App Store are a response to this new fidget spin phenomenon, because the digital world (social media, YouTube, app stores) is almost always a response to the real-life events happening around us. People these days tend to search for a digital experience after each physical one if possible.”
Tastypill claims to have produced the first spinner game — Spinny Fidget  — in the App Store’s top charts. (It’s also the creator of Fidget Spin.) “It was not a craze yet until we realized we were gaining chart momentum,” founder Phillip Kung tells The Verge. “Now there are many of these games, several of which have cracked the top charts. Many more are being introduced into the app store each day … We created Spinny Fidget with a completely unique and never before done game play mechanic. Just 1–2 weeks after we released our game and hit the top 5 in the app store there are more than a dozen games that have released that are exact clones of our game.”
Kung says Tastypill released two games themed around fidget spinners in an effort to best penetrate the market. There is no fear of diluting or dividing players. Fidget spinner loyalty is apparently hard to come by. “We know that the traffic is going to be there,” he says, “and that a large portion of the audience will download several different games based on the trend.”
Spinny Fidget took about a week to complete, the developer says. The short development time on these games is indicative of their life span. Regardless of how many developers crank out games, the fidget spinner craze will die, as all these fads do. According to Google trends, search interest has already begun to wane. Developers are looking for whatever the next big thing may be.
Ketchapp is the most prolific of the developers The Verge interviewed, having released dozens of games under its banner on the App Store. When asked by how the studio prepares for the next big thing, Morcos gives a vague answers:
“At Ketchapp, we want to stay connected with our audience, in real time if we can,” Morcos says, “and really understand what our fans love to do these days. This changes very rapidly. The idea is to create games based on what they love to do, or what they currently are interested in. It could be anything.”
“If I could personally go back to school and spend time with teens,” he continues, “it would definitely help me better understand the trends and new behaviors on mobile phones.”
In other words, the flood of trend-chasing games is dictated by the fickle infatuations of the average 13-year-old. The truth is almost enough to make your head spin.


Microsoft acquired Skype nearly six years ago, and ever since then it feels like the messaging service has been experiencing an existential crisis. Skype has been slowly transitioning from a peer-to-peer service to the cloud, and it’s been a bumpy ride with many design changes and issues. While Microsoft has managed to add features like free group video calling and Skype for Web, the software giant has struggled with the design and feature set of Skype as it attempts to compete with challengers like FaceTime, Messenger, WhatsApp, and more.
Microsoft is once again redesigning Skype today.
Described as “the next generation of Skype,” the new design focuses on messaging. Skype is well known and used widely for video and audio calls, but iMessage, WhatsApp, Messenger, Snapchat and other messaging services have taken the lead for today’s conversations. The new Skype messaging interface now includes three sections in a conversation: find, chat, and capture. Find lets you search through a conversation, or find images, restaurants, and even add-ins like YouTube or Giphy to add content into a message. Chat is the basic conversation view you’d expect with options for emoji or picture additions, but the newest section is capture.
Capture feels a lot like Snapchat within Skype, and it immediately launches into the camera to let you take pictures or hold down for video. As you hold down for video you’ll immediately recognize one of the more subtle design changes in this new version of Skype, a squiggly line that represents the amount of time for a recording. This line is also used for calling, or when contacts are typing. Once you’ve captured a video or picture you can then add stickers, text, or simply annotate it, all just like Snapchat.
Skype is also introducing a new Highlights feature that’s a lot like Snapchat stories. Highlights lets you post a stream of photos and videos that friends can view and react with emoticons. Even in text- or video-based conversations you’ll be able to react on Skype with emoticons. It seems the new Skype UI is really designed to make you use more and more of the new chat features available.
Even calling is getting redesigned for this new version of Skype. You can drag and drop people around in conversations, and react with emoticons during calls. During my limited testing it felt a lot smoother than regular group video chats, but I didn’t feel the need to blast emoticons at people.
Today’s Skype design is just the latest in a long line of changes over the years. Microsoft has been trying many different ways to get people to use Skype messaging instead of competitors. Skype Qik was an attempt to take over mobile video messaging that flopped, and Microsoft has been tweaking its Skype mobile interface for years to better improve messaging. Nothing has had a big impact, and Skype is still widely used for video and audio calls. Microsoft has the user base and brand recognition for the calling part of Skype, but it’s desperate for Skype to be considered a true messaging service.
This latest redesign might help, but there’s nothing here that’s unique or new over what competitors are doing well. Thankfully, with features like a universal search and a simple user interface, the new Skype design does address some of the weird inconsistencies we’ve seen in the past. Microsoft is only rolling out the new Skype design to mobile at first, with desktop to follow soon. Android devices will first start seeing the new Skype design today, followed by iOS, Windows, and Mac.
Ask Geordie Rose and Suzanne Gildert, co-founders of the startup Kindred, about their company’s philosophy, and they’ll describe a bold vision of the future: machines with human-level intelligence. Rose says these will be perhaps the most transformative inventions in history — and they aren’t far away. More intriguing than this prediction is Kindred’s proposed path for achieving it. Unlike some of the most cash-flush corporations in Silicon Valley, Kindred is focusing not on chatbots or game-playing programs, but on automating physical robots.
Gildert, a physicist who conceived Kindred in 2013 while working with Rose at quantum computing company D-Wave, thinks giving AI a physical body is the only way to make real progress toward a true thinking machine. “If you want to build intelligence that conceptually thinks in the same way a human does… it needs to have a similar sensory motor as humans do,” Gildert says. The trick to achieving this, she thinks, is to train robots by having them collaborate with humans in the physical world. Rose, who co-founded D-Wave in 1999, stepped back from his role as chief technology officer to work on Kindred with Gildert.
The first step toward their new shared goal is an industrial warehouse robot called the Orb. It’s a robotic arm that sits inside a hexagonal glass encasement, equipped with a bevy of sensors to help it see, feel, and even hear its surroundings. The arm is operated using a mix of human control and automated software. Because so many warehouse workers today spend a significant amount of time sorting products and scanning barcodes, Kindred developed a robotic arm that can do some elements automatically. Meanwhile, humans step in when needed to manually operate the robot to perform tasks that are difficult for machines, like gripping a single product from a cluster of different items.
Workers can even operate the arm remotely using an off-the-shelf HTC Vive headset and virtual reality motion controllers. It turns out that VR is great for gathering data on depth and other information humans intuitively use to grasp objects.
Kindred is now focused on getting its finished Orb into warehouses, where it can begin learning at an accelerated pace by sorting vastly different products and observing human operators. Because the company gathers data every time a human uses the Orb, engineers are able to improve its software over time using techniques such as reinforcement learning, which improves software through repetition. Down the line, the Orb should slowly take over more responsibility and, ideally, learn to perform new tasks.
But Kindred’s ultimate goal is much more ambitious. It may sound counterintuitive, but Rose and Gildert think warehouses are the perfect place to start on the path toward human-level artificial intelligence. Because the US shipping marketplace is already rife with single-purpose robots, thanks in part to Amazon, there are plenty of opportunities for humans to train AI. Finding, handling, and sorting products while maneuvering in a fast-moving environment is a data gold mine for building robots that can operate in the real world.
Rose and Gildert believe the next generation of AI won’t be in the form of a disembodied voice living in our phones. Rather, they believe the greatest strides will come from programs running inside a physical robot can gain knowledge about the world and itself from the ground up, like a human infant does from birth.
Kindred’s is working toward what’s known as artificial general intelligence, or software capable of performing any task a human being can do. Artificial general intelligence, or AGI, is sometimes referred to as “strong” or “full” AI because it exists in contrast to AI programs, like DeepMind’s AlphaGo system, with very specific applications. Other more conventional forms of “weak” or “narrow” AI include the underlying software behind Netflix and Amazon recommendations, Snapchat camera effects that rely on facial recognition, and Google’s fast and accurate language translations.
These algorithms are developed by applying deep learning techniques to large-scale neural networks until they can, say, differentiate between an image of a dog and a cat. They perform one task, or perhaps many in some cases, far better than humans can. But they are extremely limited and don’t learn or adapt the way humans do. The software that recognizes a sunset can’t predict whether you’ll like a Netflix movie or translate a sentence into Japanese. Right now, you can’t ask AlphaGo to face off in chess — it doesn’t know the rules and wouldn’t know how to begin learning them.
This is the fundamental challenge of AGI: how to create an intelligent system, the kind we know only from science fiction, that can truly learn on its own without needing to be fed thousands of examples and trained over the course of weeks or months.
The biggest names in AI research, like DeepMind, are focused on game-playing because it seems to be the most viable path forward. After all, if you can teach software to play Pong, perhaps it can take the lessons learned and apply them to Breakout? This applied knowledge approach, which mimics the way a human player can quickly intuit the rules of a new game, has proven promising.
For instance, AlphaGo Master, DeepMind’s latest Go system that just bested world champion Ke Jie, now effectively teaches itself how to play better. “One of the things we’re most excited about is not just that it can play Go better, but we hope that this’ll actually lead to technologies that are more generally applicable to other challenging domains,” DeepMind co-founder and CEO Demis Hassabis said at the event last week.
Yet for Kindred’s founders, the quest to crack the secret of human cognition can’t be separated from our physical bodies. “Our founding belief was that in order to make real progress toward the original objectives of AI, you needed to start by grounding your ideas in the physical world,” Rose says. “And that means robots, and robots with sensors that can look around, touch, hear the world that surrounds them.”
This body-first approach to AI is based on a theory called embodied cognition, which suggests that the interplay between our brain, body, and the physical world is what produces elements of consciousness and the ability to reason. (A fun exercise here is thinking about how many common metaphors have physical underpinnings, like thinking of affection as warmth or something inconceivable as being “over your head.”) Without understanding how the brain developed to control the body and guide functions like locomotion and visual processing, the theory goes, we may never be able to reproduce it artificially.
Other than Kindred, work on AI and embodied cognition mostly happens in the research divisions of large tech companies and academia. For example, Pieter Abbeel, who leads development on the Berkeley Robot for the Elimination of Tedious Tasks (BRETT), aims to create robots that can learn much like young children do.
By giving its robot sensory abilities and motor functions and then using AI training techniques, the BRETT team devised a way for it to acquire knowledge and physical skills much faster than with standard programming — and with the flexibility to keep learning. Much like how babies are constantly adjusting their behavior when attempting something new, BRETT also approaches unique problems, fails at first, and then adjusts over repeated attempts and under new constraints. Abbeel’s team even uses children’s toys to test BRETT’s aptitude for problem solving.
OpenAI, the nonprofit funded by SpaceX and Tesla CEO Elon Musk, is working on both general purpose game-playing algorithms and robotics, under the notion that both avenues are complementary. Helping the team is Abbeel, who is on leave from Berkeley to help OpenAI make progress fusing AI learnings with modern robotics. “The interesting thing about robotics is that it forces us to deal with the actual data we would want an intelligent agent to deal with,” says Josh Tobin, a graduate student at Berkeley who works on robotics at OpenAI.
Applying AI to real-world tasks like picking up objects and stacking blocks involves tackling a whole suite of new problems, Tobin says, like managing unfamiliar textures and replicating minute motor movements. Solving them is necessary if we’re to ever deploy intelligent robots beyond factory floors.
Wojciech Zaremba, who leads OpenAI’s robotics work, says that a holy grail of sorts would be a general-purpose robot powered by AI that can learn a new task — scrambling eggs, for instance — by watching someone do it just once. This is why OpenAI is working on teaching robots new skills that are first demonstrated by a human in a simulated VR environment, much like a video game, where it’s much easier and less costly to produce and collect data.
“You could imagine that, as a final outcome, if it’s doable, you have files online of recordings of various tasks,” Zaremba says. “And then if you want the robot to replicate this behavior, you just download the file.”
When I first operated the Orb, on an April afternoon in Kindred’s San Francisco warehouse space, a group of six or so engineers were scattered about testing the robotic arms with various pink-colored bins of products — vitamin bottles, soft plastic cylinders of Lysol cleaning wipes, rolls of paper towels.
The Orb is designed to help sort these objects in a large heap inside its glass container, while the arm sits affixed to the roof of the container. First, an operator wearing a VR headset moves the arm to a desired object, lowers the gripper, and adjusts the two clamps until a firm grip is established. Then the human can simply let go. Kindred has already automated the process of lifting the object in the air, scanning the barcode, and sorting it into the necessary bin.
“In any gigantic warehouse, people have to walk around and pick up things,” says George Babu, Kindred’s chief product officer. “The most efficient way to do that is to pick up a whole bunch of different things at the same time. Those go to someplace where you have them separated. Our robot does that job in the middle.” The idea is that warehouse workers can dump a bunch of products into the Orb, while a remote operator works with the robot to sort them.
Amazon is working on something similar, and the company now holds an annual “picking” challenge to spur development in industrial robotics that are capable of handling and sorting physical items. Kindred is quick to recognize Amazon’s prowess in this department. “In the fulfillment world, Amazon uses a different set of approaches than all of the other fulfillment provisioners. They have the scale, the scope, and the know-how to implement end-to-end systems that are very effective at what they do,” Rose says. But he thinks Amazon is likely to keep this technology to itself. “The advancements that Amazon makes toward doing this job well don’t benefit all of their competitors.”
Kindred’s system, on the other hand, is designed to integrate into existing warehouse tools. Last month, Kindred finished its first deployable devices, and it “created more demand than we anticipated,” according to Jim Liefer, Kindred’s chief operating officer, though he won’t disclose any initial customers.
I was surprised when using the Orb, with a Vive headset, by just how much it resembles a video game. Think of a toy claw machine, where the second the clamp touches down on an object, the automated process takes over and the arm springs to life with an uncanny jerkiness. It makes sense, considering Kindred built its depth-sensing system using the game engine Unity.
Max Bennett, Kindred’s robotics product manager, says that the process is designed so that human warehouse workers can operate multiple Orbs simultaneously, gripping objects and letting the software take the reins before cycling to the next setup. Kindred imagines future versions of the robotic arm being affixed to sliding overhead rails or maybe even to bipedal robots that roam the floor. There is also a point at which the Vive is no longer necessary. “Nobody’s going to want to use a VR headset all day,” Bennett tells me, suggesting that an Xbox controller or even just a computer mouse will do in the future.
As for how the Orb might impact jobs, Babu says there will be need for human labor for quite some time. He’s partly right: Amazon hired 100,000 workers in the last year alone, and plans to hire 100,000 more this year, mostly in warehouse and other fulfillment roles. But systems like the Orb raise the possibility that fewer jobs are needed as the work becomes more a matter of assisting and operating robots.
“My view is that the humans will all move on to different work in the stream,” Babu says.
Still, Forrester Research predicts that automation will result in 25 million jobs lost over the next decade, with only 15 million new jobs created. The end goals of automation have always been to reduce costs and improve efficiency, and that will inevitably mean the disappearance of certain types of labor.
Kindred is unique in the AI field not just for its robotics focus, but also because it’s diving head first into the industrial world with a commercial product. Many of the big tech companies working on AI are doing so with huge research organizations, like Facebook AI Research and Google Brain. These teams are filled with academics and engineers who work on abstract problems that then help inform real software features that get deployed to millions of consumers.
Kindred, as a startup, can’t afford this approach. “Day one we said: ‘We’re going to find a big market. We’re going to build a wildly successful product for that initial market, and build a business by executing along that path first with one vertical and then maybe others,’” Rose explains. He adds that his experience with D-Wave, which raised more than $150 million over the course of more than a decade just to release its first product, inspired him to seek out a different approach to tackling big-picture problems.
“You have this quandary that doing it right is going to take a long time, on the order of decades. How do you sustain that organization for that length of time without all the negative side effects of raising a lot of rounds of VC?” Rose says. “The answer is that you have to create a real business that is cash-flow positive very early.” Kindred has raised $15 million in funding thus far from Eclipse, GV, Data Collective, and a number of other investors. But Rose stresses that the company’s focus is to become profitable with the Orb, and that will help it in its main objective.
That objective, since the beginning, is human-level AI with a focus on what Gildert calls “in-body cognition,” or the type of thought processes that only arise from giving AI a physical shell. “Intelligence absence a body is not what we think it means,” she says. “Intelligence with a body brings to it a number of constraints that are not there when you think about intelligence in a virtual environment. We certainly don’t believe you can build a chatbot without a human-like body and expect it to pass [for a human].”
“Brains evolved to control bodies,” Rose adds. “And all these things that we think about as being the beautiful stuff that comes from cognition, they’re all side effects of this.”

Oppo is planning on unveiling its latest flagship phone on June 10th, but whatever they announce won’t be much of a surprise, thanks to an ongoing stream of substantial leaks. In the latest news that Android Pure has obtained are the official renders for the Oppo R11, and RayArena obtained a short video of a working version of the device.
The R11 will be available in at least four colors that we’ve seen: gold, rose gold, silver, and black. Earlier leaks point toward the R11 being no slouch in the specs department either:
Supposedly there will also be a bigger version, the R11 Plus, which will naturally come with a larger display and bigger battery. And with 10 days left before the official announcement, it’s likely that the Plus may leak out as well.
It’s often said, by people outside Silicon Valley, that people inside Silicon Valley spend all their time solving niche problems that only affect them. When the architect of Android, Andy Rubin, whipped out a new phone at the Code Conference this week, he did little to discourage that belief. His Essential Phone is made out of titanium and ceramic and costs a distinctly premium $699 — its reason for existence, by Rubin’s own account, is that he grew frustrated with the phones made by others and wanted to do better. In a market as saturated as the one for smartphones in the United States, I find Rubin’s new venture indulgent, both for him personally and for the people buying the phone, which certainly has the look and materials of a premium product.
The Essential Phone is no threat to Apple and Samsung’s established duopoly, and Rubin’s team recognizes that, but what’s fascinating about this phone is that, even while remaining niche, it can set the blueprint for making devices in a new way.
What I see when I look at the Essential Phone — as a product rather than as a pretty gadget — is the potential to establish a new manufacturing approach for smart devices. At present, economies of scale dominate the mobile industry — every Chinese company finding success in this market finds it by selling huge volumes at razor-thin margins. Apple and Samsung have carved out reputational beachheads for themselves, allowing them to charge a brand premium, but they too rely on tight vertical integration and supply chain control. Rubin’s Essential has none of that. It’s a comparatively tiny startup with less funding than Apple makes in iPhone sales every month.
But these days being small is no longer a reason to give up (or, in Essential’s case, to not try at all). It seems like almost every week I’m discovering a new small-scale American company that’s finding profitability by producing a low volume of high-margin, premium goods. The classic example from the audio industry is Grado, a Brooklyn-based headphone manufacturer that’s still a family-run business, operating from the same location as it began many decades ago. But more recent examples abound, such as MrSpeakers, a company that got its start with just one man modifying Fostex headphones and selling his mods to an enthusiastic online community.
Then there’s the (rare, but real) phenomenon of Kickstarter turning one or two good products into respectable companies, such as in the case of the Pebble smartwatch, the Oculus Rift, and the Peak Design bags and backpacks. Granted, two out of those three wound up being acquired by larger entities — and that might be the likeliest outcome for Rubin’s Essential company — but the point stands that being small is a more viable strategy with the help of the internet than it used to be.
The lessons I’ve drawn from observing the US headphones industry is that the small companies that thrive do it by having some advantage that isn’t easy to scale up. A clever new way to make a self-repairing zipper with machinery? Forget about it, Chinese vendors will have it on Alibaba before you close your crowdfunding campaign. But what if your unique selling point is leather craftsmanship, or precise audio tuning, or some other skill that takes years to cultivate? Alternatively, you could opt for a sapphire crystal screen, as Vertu has done, or just use other fancy materials that nobody can afford to buy or produce in bulk. As Essential proposes to do.
In his Code Conference interview, Andy Rubin readily admitted to Walt Mossberg that engineering a new phone "isn’t rocket science, it’s technology evolution." He doesn’t expect to have a unique selling point based on sheer engineering genius. But his advantage is that he and his team can dedicate all their energies to perfecting a phone with a titanium frame and ceramic back, knowing very well that they’d sell only a handful of devices. Ceramic has only ever made its way into limited edition phones — like the OnePlus Ceramic X — so its use necessarily puts a cap on manufacturing volume.
Essential can also dedicate more time to investigating more exotic materials and securing less conventional supply sources. MrSpeakers, for example, stumbled upon nitinol while looking for something better than steel or aluminum for its headphone frame. Beyerdynamic, another headphone company, regularly piggybacks on orders from car suppliers: audio companies only ever need tiny amounts of metal to create their products, so they look at what’s being manufactured at scale for other industries and try to adapt it to their purposes. It’s the sort of resourcefulness that’s born out of constraints.
For Apple, Samsung, and even LG, crafting a ceramic phone is a pointless adventure that would cost way too much to pursue, owing to their decision-making hierarchies and processes. But for a small outfit like Rubin’s Essential, it can be a passionate project of refinement that ends up delivering a number of desirable intangibles for the consumer.
The buyer of an Essential Phone would know, firstly, that it’s an exclusive piece of hardware, owing to its limited production. But that production is limited because it has higher-grade materials, so that’ll be a nice feeling, too. And finally, like every other small-scale operation, whether it be an independent clothes store, bookshop, or coffee house, it just feels more natural to buy from a company that still retains some measure of human scale. Vertu makes a big deal of the fact that you can call its phone support line and speak with the actual person that assembled your phone. Essential would be wise to pursue a similar level of intimacy and approachability with its forthcoming clientele, and Rubin seems conscious of that, too, describing it as "a very pro-consumer brand."
The odds are stacked against Essential. Most smartphone buyers still walk into physical stores, where Essential has no presence, or grab whatever their carrier is serving up as the latest deal, which is another unchecked Essential box. But it’s evident that the product Rubin has created isn’t designed to win in the conventional fashion. The Essential Phone’s unlikely success would be built atop a new mode of operation for a smartphone manufacturer — it won’t be transformative for the entire industry, but it could set an interesting new blueprint for the mostly profitless Android vendors.
Yesterday, AMC announced that it is opening writers’ rooms to develop three new shows, one of which is an adaptation of Joe Hill’s vampire novel NOS4A2. Jami O’Brien, who worked on the network’s Hell on Wheels and Fear the Walking Dead, will be the show’s executive producer.
According to Deadline, the network is skipping the typical pilot process, and working on a “detailed look at a potential first season,” before deciding whether or not to greenlight the show right out of the gate. AMC first announced that it was adapting the novel back in 2015, but word that Joe Hill’s NOS4A2 is still under consideration is pretty exciting. Hill is the son of Stephen King, and he’s forged his own career as a horror author in recent years. This extremely creepy novel is one of his best to date. AMC is also developing a crime thriller, Pandora, and Silent History, about a group of children who are born without the ability to comprehend language, under the same arrangement.
Published in 2013, NOS4A2 follows a girl named Vic McQueen who has an ability to find lost objects by way of a mysterious bridge that transports her to wherever the object that she’s looking for is hiding. While she’s out searching for something, she comes across a man named Charles Talent Manx, who likes to take children for a ride in his 1938 Rolls-Royce Wraith (the title of the book comes from the car’s vanity plate), spiriting them off to an otherworldly place known as Christmasland. Vic tangles with Manx, who seems to be feeding on the children he steals.
This isn’t the only work of Hill’s that’s in development. Back in April, Hulu ordered a pilot for an adaptation of his comic series Locke & Key, to be directed by Doctor Strange filmmaker Scott Derrickson. 20th Century Fox is also developing his latest novel, The Fireman, as a film.
Last year’s reinvention of Motorola centered around the short-lived buzz over modular smartphones. Its Moto Z and Moto Mods platform were the most practical take on the modular phone concept, but they didn’t exactly ignite the smartphone world.
Hidden among this modular hype was one of the best smartphones made last year: the midrange Moto Z Play. It wasn’t the flashiest phone, didn’t have the fastest processor or best camera, and didn’t have the highest-resolution display. It did have the best battery life you could get in any smartphone, and the rest of its components were good enough that the overall package was greater than the sum of its parts. The Z Play was easily the sleeper hit of 2016 (and one of my favorite phones of all time), even if you didn’t care one bit about its modular capabilities.
This year’s version, the $499 Moto Z2 Play, available unlocked and through Verizon this summer, attempts to improve upon the first version’s weaknesses without losing the charm that made the original so appealing. It’s much thinner, much lighter, has a better camera, and comes with a refined design and a handful of new software features. It also works with all of the Mods Motorola has released — battery packs, projectors, cameras, speakers, and so on — and will release this year. The new phone basically a blend of the 2016 Z Play and the higher end Moto Z, with a price that sits between them.
The Z2 Play is better than the original in almost every respect, except for perhaps the most important area: battery life. But as I’ve found after using it as my primary phone for the past week, that doesn’t ruin the experience.
As a regular user of last year’s phone, the first thing that I noticed with the Z2 Play is how thin and light it is. This is not a small phone — it has a traditional 5.5-inch, 16:9 display, which definitely puts it on the larger side of the scale — but it measures a scant 5.99mm thick and only weighs 145g. That’s almost as thin as the higher-end Moto Z, but the extra 0.7mm in the Z2 Play affords room for a headphone jack that the Z lacked last year. More importantly, it’s a lot thinner-feeling than last year’s brick-like Z Play, and it’s much nicer to hold for long periods.
Of course, the reason the Z2 Play is so thin and light is because its battery is almost 15 percent smaller than the cell in last year’s model. There’s reasonable cause for concern here; after all, the best feature in the Z Play was its battery life. And my experience with the Z2 is not as good as the prior model: it’s not the zero-worry, multi-day monster its predecessor was.
That said, the Z2’s battery life is still excellent. I’m able to use it for a full day of heavy use — up to five or six hours of screen on time — without having to plug in for a charge in the middle of the day. Most phones typically kick the bucket after just three or four hours of screen time, so the Z2 Play is notably above average here. When I’m not constantly using my phone, such as over a quiet weekend, I can stretch the battery across two days pretty easily.
I’m okay with the trade-off Motorola made reducing the thickness and weight of the phone by using a smaller battery. The battery life is still very good — I’m not constantly thinking about it or monitoring it — and the phone is much slimmer and more comfortable to use as a result. And since the Z2 Play is compatible with the Moto Mod platform, if I do need to extend its range away from the outlet, it’s very easy to slap on a battery mod, such as the new TurboPower Pack, and keep going.
I also appreciate the other hardware improvements Motorola made here. The phone’s appearance is not much different than last year — the Moto Mods system has essentially locked Motorola into a specific design for a couple of generations — but it’s a little more polished and refined. The glass back, which was prone to scratching and damage, has been swapped for a more durable and more attractive metal finish, and the front fingerprint scanner is larger and recessed, making it easier to use.
Motorola has also upgraded the camera hardware with a faster lens and much faster focusing systems. It is a better camera than last year’s version, but even though the spec sheet is very good, the image processing doesn’t keep pace with the Pixel, iPhone, or Galaxy S8 cameras. The Z2 Play can struggle with high-contrast scenes, and its lack of optical stabilization really hurts it in low light. It’s not a bad camera at all, but it’s merely passable instead of great.
The performance from the Snapdragon 626 processor and 4GB of RAM is also fine: this isn’t blisteringly fast like high-end phones with Qualcomm’s best chips, but it doesn’t have any stutters or performance issues either. The same goes for the 1080p AMOLED display: it’s not the brightest or most pixel-dense screen available and doesn’t have curved sides or an elongated aspect ratio to display more content, but it’s sharp enough for anything short of VR and works well outdoors. The best thing about the processor and screen is that you just don’t think about them — they do the jobs they are supposed to do without any glaring faults or flaws.
Motorola’s approach to software has long been to take Google’s Android and leave it mostly untouched, save for sprinkling a few enhancements here and there. The Z2 Play has a number of useful gestures, such as a double karate chop to turn on the flashlight or a double twist action to launch the camera, both of which I use a lot. The Moto Display feature, which shows the time and notifications whenever you pick up the phone or just wave your hand over it, has been improved with a battery meter and the ability to take actions on notifications without unlocking the phone. I can even reply to a message with text or my voice right from the Moto Display, which is very convenient.
Lots of phones have the ability to work hands-free with just voice commands, and Motorola has been using this feature in its phones since 2013. The Z2 Play takes voice commands a step further: not only can you wake up the phone and use the Google Assistant with an “OK Google” command, you can also directly tell the Z2 Play to do things with a “show me” command. This can be used to check the weather (“show me the weather”), see upcoming appointments (“show me my calendar”), or launch an app (“show me Chrome”) without unlocking or even touching the phone. It only works with my voice for security, the screen lights up for just five seconds, and its uses are fairly basic, but it’s still convenient. It’s a small change, but one that makes using voice commands slightly more natural than the “say wake up word and wait” cadence we’re used to.
I’m less enthused by the new swiping gestures for the fingerprint scanner that are designed to replace the on-screen home, back, and recent apps buttons. Tapping the scanner acts as the home button, while swiping to the left goes back and swiping to the right launches the recent apps tray. It makes sense, especially the tap to go home gesture, but it’s difficult to reliably execute the swipe gestures; all too often it would take me to the home screen when I meant to go back in my app or launch the recent apps tray. Fortunately, these gestures are not enabled by default and you can use the traditional on-screen buttons without ever bothering with them. I wish that Motorola would use the areas next to the fingerprint scanner for back and recent buttons like other phone makers do, as it feels like wasted space right now.
The reason last year’s Moto Z Play was so compelling to me was that it blended stellar battery life with solid performance, good software, and a usable camera. The mix has changed a little with the Z2 Play — the battery life is not quite as stellar, while the camera is better — but the essential package is the same. It’s a very well-executed device that gets all of the basics you need in a phone correct without spoiling the recipe with gimmicks or an unreasonable price.
At $500, however, it’s not an instant purchase. It’s a lot more expensive than true budget phones and not that far off from the actual flagships that offer better displays, better cameras, and more forward-looking designs. This is especially true if you purchase a phone on a monthly payment plan: the difference between a Moto Z2 Play and a Galaxy S8 might be only a few dollars per month.
Still, the Z2 Play provides a great mix of what matters without any unnecessary stuff piled on. And it does so with better battery life than even most flagships can provide. When you think about it, isn’t that all you really want from a phone?
Motorola has announced the Moto Z2 Play, a successor to last year's sleeper hit Moto Z Play. Much like its predecessor, the Z2 Play is a midrange smartphone with a 5.5-inch display and compatibility with the Moto Mod accessory platform. It will sell for $499 and will be available from Verizon or unlocked from Motorola’s website this summer.
In addition to the Z2 Play, Motorola revealed four new Mods for its Z line of smartphones: the JBL SoundBoost 2, the Moto TurboPower Pack, Moto Style Shells with Wireless Charging, and the Moto GamePad. The SoundBoost 2, TurboPower Pack, and GamePad will sell for $79.99, while the wireless charging Style Shells are $39.99 apiece. All will be available for purchase this summer.
The Z2 Play is a thinner and lighter phone than last year’s model and it has an upgraded processor, more RAM, and a new camera. The battery is about 15 percent smaller — 3,000mAh vs. 3,510mAh — however, and it’s priced slightly higher than the Z Play was. Motorola says the phone gets up to 30 hours of battery life between charges; last year’s claim was a much higher 50 hours. The new camera should be appreciated, though, as it has a brighter, f/1.7 aperture lens, dual pixel focusing, and an improved laser focus system for low-light.
The new phone has a couple of software enhancements: it’s running Android 7.1.1 Nougat and has a Night Display feature to reduce blue light emissions in the evening. There’s also a redesigned fingerprint scanner and new voice controls that will provide information instantly without having to touch or unlock the phone.
Of the new Mods, the TurboPower Pack and GamePad are the most interesting. The TurboPower Pack brings Motorola’s quick charging features to a portable Mod: it has a 3,490mAh battery and can charge the phone at 15W speeds. A USB Type-C lets you refuel the Mod itself to 50 percent in just 20 minutes of charging.
The GamePad attaches to Moto Z phones just like any other Moto Mod and includes dual control sticks, a D-pad, and four buttons. Motorola says it was developed in partnership with the gaming division at parent company Lenovo and it has a 1,035mAh battery so it doesn’t rely on the phone’s battery for power.
The SoundBoost 2 Mod is similar in features to last year’s SoundBoost, but comes in three colors, has a fabric covering, and is now splash-resistant. It works with a new app from JBL that lets you adjust the sound coming from the speaker. The wireless charging shells also come in a variety of colors and finishes, and they support 10W fast wireless charging with compatible chargers.
Motorola has committed to launching at least a dozen new Mods this year and it still has a number of phones in its lineup that haven’t yet been updated for 2017, so we should hear more from the company as the summer progresses. Until then, be sure to check out our full review of the Moto Z2 Play for more info.
It’s got space for more than 4,000 employees, a rooftop garden with a running track, and has been dubbed a “landscraper” for being as long as a skyscraper is tall. It’s Google’s new London headquarters, the final plans of which were submitted this week to Camden council after years of back-and-forth between the tech giant and architects.
Construction on the “Zone A” development will start in 2018 at a site overlooking London’s King’s Cross railway station. The final design was created by the Bjarke Ingels Group and Heatherwick Studios (previously responsible for the 2012 London Olympic Cauldron and new-look London Routemaster buses) after Google scrapped an earlier set of plans by architects AHMM in 2013.
According to Architect’s Journal, the entire complex will cost some £1 billion. The main 11-story building will provide some 80,819 square meters of space and stretch across 330 meters of ground, sitting on a “plinth” of shops with ground-floor entrances to the offices interspersed between them. This is intended to create a “varied and open ground plane that can change with time,” according to the submitted plans.
In a statement, designer Thomas Heatherwick said he’d been inspired by the site of the new office, which functions as a hub for much of the city’s transport links.
“The area is a fascinating collision of diverse building types and spaces and I can’t help but love this mix of massive railway stations, roads, canals and other infrastructure all layered up into the most connected point in London,” said Heatherwick. “Influenced by these surroundings, we have treated this new building for Google like a piece of infrastructure too, made from a family of interchangeable elements which ensure that the building and its workspace will stay flexible for years to come.”
Inside will be all the amenities you’d expect, like cafes and meeting rooms, as well as a three-lane, 25-meter swimming pool, massage rooms, a “multi-use games area” for spots like basketball and football, and a 210-seat auditorium for product announcements and talks. The roof will be covered in a 300-meter-long garden, divided into different zones, including a “pause area” filled with wildflowers and woodland plants, a cafe, and a 200-meter “trim trail” for runners.
Currently, Google’s staff are situated in a number of different sites around London, including other properties in the King’s Cross area. (The building next door, 7 Pancras Square, is home to the company’s AI subsidiary, DeepMind.) The new building will bring together the city’s Googlers in one campus, and will be the first Google building outside of the US to be 100 percent owned and designed by the tech giant.
The company recommitted to the project following Brexit last year, with CEO Sundar Pichai saying: “Here in the UK, it’s clear to me that computer science has a great future with the talent, educational institutions, and passion for innovation we see all around us. We are committed to the UK and excited to continue our investment in our new King’s Cross campus.”


If a nuclear-tipped missile were hurtling toward the United States, would we be able to stop it? Maybe, if we were very lucky. But some experts warn that the United States’ missile defense system isn’t as reliable as people might think.
Right now, a constellation of sensors and 36 interceptor missiles make up the ground-based midcourse defense system, or GMD. It’s intended to act as insurance against a small-scale nuclear attack from North Korea, or possibly Iran, according to the Department of Defense. (Neither country has missiles capable of reaching the US, although US officials say North Korea is getting closer.) It’s not meant to ward off an unlikely attack from the much larger and more sophisticated arsenals of Russia or China — nor would it be able to.
Still, it’s the only defense we have against an intercontinental ballistic missile or ICBM once it’s in the air. On May 30th, 2017, the US tested these defenses against an ICBM-like target for the first time. To stop it, a ground-based interceptor missile fired from Vandenberg Air Force Base collided with the incoming warhead and smashed it to smithereens.
The test appears to have been a success — but that doesn’t necessarily mean the GMD could stop an enemy weapon under real-world conditions. In fact, the Government Accountability Office — a nonpartisan government agency also known as the congressional watchdog — reported in 2016 that the GMD “has not demonstrated through flight testing that it can defend the U.S. homeland against the current missile defense threat.”
Here’s what you need to know:
For a second, let’s imagine a frightening future where North Korea actually does have working ICBMs — and decides to launch one. Satellites with infrared sensors and radar systems deployed in Japan and on US Navy ships would spot the missile launch, and alert control centers in the US. Sensors, including a sea-based, high-resolution radar, would track the hostile missile as it flies.
When the missile leaves the atmosphere, it enters longest phase of its flight called the midcourse. At this point, the missile breaks up into the warhead, debris, decoys intended to confuse our sensors, and the last stage of the burned-out rocket booster.
On the other side of the Pacific, people in control centers in Alaska and Colorado would work quickly to find the warhead and figure out where to intercept it. Then, they give the order to fire interceptor missiles from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California, or Fort Greely, Alaska. There are 36 interceptors stashed in silos at these two sites, each carrying a “kill vehicle” on a three-stage rocket booster. (Tom Karako, a missile defense expert with the Center for Strategic and International Studies, describes the kill vehicle as a “funny looking telescope with a jetpack attached to it.”)
As the interceptor leaves the atmosphere and enters space, the 120-pound kill vehicle and the rocket separate. Using infrared sensors to find the incoming warhead, the kill vehicle moves into the warhead’s path by firing its own little thrusters. When the two objects collide, the kill vehicle should, theoretically, obliterate the warhead without causing a nuclear detonation.
We don’t really know. Since 1999, the GMD has been tested 18 times. But the Union of Concerned Scientists argues that these were conducted under artificial conditions where the timing of the incoming missile, for example, was known in advance. (Of course, for safety reasons, you can’t exactly launch a surprise ICBM at an air force base.)
And even so, the system has failed either eight or nine of those tests, depending on whom you ask. The Department of Defense’s Missile Defense Agency says eight failures, counting a “glancing blow” delivered to a target in 2006 as a success. But the Pentagon’s director of Operational Test and Evaluation testified in a congressional hearing that it was a “hit, but not a kill” — actually destroying the target apparently wasn’t one of the test’s objectives.
That’s why Karako says that there is a need for more testing — like the one on May 30th, which tested an upgraded component of the kill vehicle. The target took off from the Marshall Islands in the Pacific, and flew toward the US with the speed and trajectory of an ICBM. An interceptor missile launched from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California collided with the target and destroyed it. Laura Grego, a global security expert for the Union of Concerned Scientists with a background in physics, says the GMD system has been described as like “hitting a bullet with a bullet.” She adds: “It’s amazing that we ever actually do it.”
The difficulty is compounded by the fact that the interceptor missiles are essentially advanced prototypes, Karako says. “I think fundamentally what has challenged the program is the lost opportunities to go back and improve upon the basic design that was fielded back in 2004,” he says. “Everybody knows that that’s what needs to be done, and now finally we’re on a path to getting there — but we have to keep at it.”
For decades the US went back and forth about whether, and how, to defend itself against incoming missiles. Ever since the US developed the atomic bomb in 1945, our best defense has been the prospect of devastating nuclear retaliation.
But to supplement this game of nuclear chicken, the Army asked Bell Labs in 1955 to start looking into possibilities for an antiballistic missile system. Since then, the US very briefly deployed nuclear-tipped interceptors designed to stop incoming missiles in their tracks with a nuclear explosion. In the ‘80s, Ronald Reagan announced his famous “Star Wars” plan — which included a proposal for an X-ray space laser powered by a nuclear detonation (it never got off the ground).
An anti-ballistic missile treaty signed by the US and the Soviet Union in 1972 — plus scientific and technological challenges — stopped us from getting serious about defending against an ICBM attack. There was also the concern that a sophisticated defense system could fuel a race for weapons that could overpower it.
The Clinton administration started making moves toward a National Missile Defense in the 1990s. But the real push came after 9/11, when George Bush pulled out of the anti-ballistic missile treaty and fast-tracked what became the GMD. This, Grego and her colleagues at the Union of Concerned Scientists argue, is what set the system up for failure by rushing missiles that were essentially still prototypes into silos. Karako counters that the speed of the rollout was necessary: “We are unwilling, as a nation, to accept vulnerability, complete vulnerability, to be blackmailed by North Korea. So we're going to do what we can to have some defenses, and we're going to improve it over time.”
Because interceptors were rushed out before rigorous testing, the Missile Defense Agency had to go back and fix them as flight tests uncovered issues. And those fixes have been both expensive, and incremental — so not all the missiles have the same hardware, according to a 2014 report by the Pentagon’s director of Operational Testing. It went on to say: “The reliability and availability of the operational [ground based interceptors] is low, and the MDA continues discovering new failure modes during testing.” Chris Johnson, a spokesperson with the MDA, says that the agency upgrades systems once new improvements are designed.
One of those upgrades was to address a pretty serious design flaw discovered a few years ago that caused the vibrations from the thrusters to throw off the kill vehicles’ navigation. That made the kill vehicle more likely to miss the warhead it was designed to intercept. A fix for the thrusters was flight-tested in 2016 — and it was described as a success until an LA Times investigation revealed that, in fact, one of the thrusters had failed and thrown the interceptor way off target. (“We disagree with that characterization of the 2016 test,” Johnson says. “The test met its objective, and the thruster performed as designed.”‎)
The next challenge was to see whether the upgraded kill vehicle could actually hit an ICBM-like target as intended — and it did, the Missile Defense Agency reports. But again, it was under pretty ideal conditions: the test took place during the day, there was only one ICBM-like missile, we knew where it was coming from, and where it was going. And, since it’ll likely take several interceptors to destroy an incoming warhead, the next hurdle to clear will be for the Pentagon to fire several missiles that will need to work together to stop one target.
That depends on who you ask. If you ask Grego and her colleagues at the Union of Concerned Scientists, it means that the Missile Defense Agency needs more oversight. It should be required to test its acquisitions before it buys them, like many other defense programs. “They're meant to be tested first and put through their paces before they're bought and put into the field,” she says.
In the meantime, the government should avoid statements about the GMD that give a false sense of security, Grego says. The DoD's 2010 Ballistic Missile Defense Review said that "the United States is currently protected against limited ICBM attacks." A Senate report in 2015 said the GMD protects the entire US against an attack from North Korea or Iran. That’s not true. At least, not yet, according to the GAO, that says, “GMD flight testing, to date, was insufficient to demonstrate that an operationally useful defense capability exists.”
But Karako at the Center for Strategic and International Studies disagrees: “I don’t think anybody takes this lightly. This is a form of insurance policy. You don’t have fire insurance and then go lighting matches around your house recklessly.” Instead, he argues that the Missile Defense Agency needs to go back and methodically fix the interceptors based on what we’ve learned from testing the GMD, as well as from regional missile technologies.
“There’s been a number of decision points along the way, when the opportunity to fix these very fixable things could have been taken, but wasn’t,” he says. “I don’t think anybody really disputes that.” Making the system more reliable will take more frequent testing, a culture that allows those tests to fail, and enough breathing room to actually implement the fixes.
Still, it’s pretty clear that regardless of how the GMD performed on May 30th, the best option we have against an ICBM attack is never getting to that point in the first place.
Update June 1, 2017 9AM ET: This post, originally published May 30th, 2017, has been updated to include a video and the results of the May 30th GMD intercept test.
We now have a release date and price for the Connect Home, Samsung's attempt to marry a router with a SmartThings hub. The unassuming Samsung Connect Home is meant to sit out in the open to blanket your home in a mesh of Wi-Fi for data, and Zigbee and Z-Wave for wireless control over all your compatible home automation devices. Samsung Connect Home goes up for preorder at BestBuy.com starting Sunday, June 4th, and will be sold in a variety of configurations.
The Pro model features a 4x4 MU-MIMO antenna and a max speed of 1.7 Gbps, while the others come equipped with a 2x2 MU-MIMO antenna array and a slower processor for a max speed of 866 Mbps. Samsung says up to five Samsung Connect Home devices can be connected at once to cover 7,500 square feet of space, though it's unclear if the Pro devices can be included in that meshy mix.
You can take a Samsung Connect Home home starting on July 2nd at Best Buy stores and BestBuy.com.
Today Plex is taking the wraps off its first live television offering: Plex Live TV, now available in beta. Combined with Plex DVR, the Plex platform is even more compelling for people hoping to cut the cord from their cable company. With today's announcement, Plex is now a one-stop shop for live and recorded television, in addition to personal videos, images, and music, accessible from just about any device with a screen.
In addition to a Plex Pass subscription, Plex Live TV requires a digital tuner (and antenna) to suck down that free over-the-air signal — an option I’ll bet most of you have largely forgotten about. Once procured, you'll have access to local news, live sports, and 86 of the 100 most popular US network television shows, according to Plex; from channels like ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, PBS, Univision, Telemundo, and many more.
Viewing Live TV is currently limited to Plex iOS devices, Android TV users, and the Nvidia Shield. By the end of June, Plex should be ready to support Live TV on Apple TV and Android mobile, according to Scott Olechowski, Chief Product Officer and Plex co-founder. Olechowski also says that Plex Pass subscribers should be able to timeshift Live TV in "another month or so."
I've been testing the Live TV beta for the last few days with an HDHomeRun Extend digital tuner, and a macOS Plex Media Server streaming the live broadcasts to my iPhone. I can tell you that it works. Yesterday my streams were rock solid, but this morning I saw some buffering hiccups while watching live BBC and CNN broadcasts from my home in The Netherlands — I’d get about one to two seconds of buffering pauses after roughly three minutes of viewing, on average. I should also point out that I've watched more live television in the past few days than I have in the last few years so I’m not really the audience for this. Still, I can see the appeal for people who want that live TV fix, especially when factoring in Plex DVR recordings and future timeshifting support.
Plex likes to play up the "free TV" angle of today's announcement but its Live and DVR solutions are far from free. First you'll need to pony-up for a Plex Pass subscription at $4.99 each month, $39.99 a year, or $119.99 for a lifetime. You'll also need to buy a compatible digital tuner (and antenna) — a one-time cost that will run between about $70 and $180 depending upon the features and quality you want. Oh, and you'll need to keep your Plex Media server running all day in your home (consuming electricity) or in the cloud (consuming GBs).
Hey, nobody said cutting the cord would be cheap, but it is getting easier.
Misfit has launched a new tool that lets users personalize their wearables more easily. M.Y Misfit lets customers change the color, strap style, and material of a range of Misfit products, with the company claiming that a total of “600 unique possible combinations” are available. Colors include Jet, Rose Tone, Silver, Midnight, and Champagne, and strap styles range from leather to silicone to paracord.
The new tool works with the following Misfit products:
The tool is a nice addition to Misfit’s line of products, which have always been among the most attractive available. Whether it’ll help the company in a squeezed market, where firms are buying one another to stay relevant, is another question entirely.
So you’ve just come across an amazing GIF. Ridiculous! How could someone make such a weird face? But now you’re left with one big question: where’d it come from? Usually, you’d have to do a reverse image search, or leave a comment and ask, but now Giphy has a much more elegant solution: just click the GIF and have it switch over to the source video. Then, you can watch exactly where it came from.
This new feature is launching in a very limited capacity. For one, it’ll only work on GIFs that have been made through Giphy’s GIF maker (or manually given an attribution link) and embedded using Giphy’s native GIF player. On top of that, it’ll only work with Vimeo videos at launch. That said, all existing Giphy embeds that meet these requirements will automatically be updated with the ability to switch over to the source video, so you may start seeing this around right away.
Here’s an example:
Theoretically, Giphy will add support for YouTube and other common video players over time (it seems like a hard get, but you can even imagine this working with Netflix). But for some odd reason, nothing else is supported just yet. That makes this feature a lot less useful at launch, especially since it seems safe to guess that a very large portion of Giphy’s GIFs originated with YouTube videos.
“This is the first step, you should expect to see other platform compatibility rolling out quickly,” Jason Stein, Giphy’s director of business development, says in an emailed statement. “Ultimately, we want this technology to work across the internet.”
Giphy says that money isn’t changing hands as a result of its partnership with Vimeo on this feature. Stein says collaborations like this “are very symbiotic relationships where we explore organic ways to work together.”
Update June 1st, 1:10PM ET: This story has been updated with additional comment from Giphy.
It used to be a rite of passage after every holiday: grab some photos from the trip, upload them to Facebook, and see what likes and comments they get. Even now, my account is home to a dozen-plus moth-balled albums of this kind. There’s “france 2008” — a failed attempt to hitch-hike around the country that saw a friend and I get less than 100 miles out of Calais; “nepal”, “nepal deux”, and “nepal finarly” — a gap-year trilogy of cliché that spans mountains, monks, and one misjudged mohawk; and “leeds fest ‘07” which is equal parts mud and obscenities.
But, on the way back from my most recent holiday (call it “Hurriedly Organized Week Away, Italy 2017”) it struck me that there would be no Facebook album to follow. And that there hadn’t been in years.
There are a number of reasons for this, with the first so prominent and obvious it may as well be tattooed across the forehead of the internet: Facebook isn’t cool any more. Other, corollary explanations include the fact I no longer use the site to communicate with friends, and that I’m more wary than I was when younger of leaving a semi-permanent record of my life online. The final reason is simply that I now use other apps to share my holiday photos.
In Italy, I used Instagram stories for day-to-day updates (look at this weird fish! I’m eating cheese! Ruins!!), and WhatsApp for sending pics to specific people (aka, my mum). Both apps are owned by Facebook of course. The company’s tactics of buying up any would-be competitors and shamelessly copying rivals’ features work. It’s why Instagram Stories now has more daily users than Snapchat, and why, despite the fact that I longer upload holiday snaps directly to Facebook, the company still controls them in a roundabout way.
All this made me wonder, though, what’s next for my post-vacation photos? It feels like Facebook’s offerings have grown up with me, mirroring my new preferences for increased privacy and ephemerality, but I’m starting to wonder if I’m just less interested in digital sharing altogether.
After getting back from Italy and scrolling through the photos on my camera roll, the first thing I thought was: “It would be nice to see these photos in person.” And wouldn’t you know it, both Apple and Google offer easy ways to turn digital pictures into physical albums. It makes sense. Most of the people in my life who might actually want to see these snaps, I’ll meet in person one time or another. And despite the addictive nature of social networks, with the sense of validation and low-key contact they offer, photos tend to mean the most to the people who actually took them. Otherwise I’m just providing a distraction to friends I haven’t seen in years, scrolling through Instagram Stories while bored at work.
Maybe killing off my Facebook holiday album is just an intermediary step. Maybe I don’t need to share my digital photos at all. Maybe, just maybe, it’s time to order some prints.
Microsoft’s Rewards program is launching in the UK today. Originally only available in the US, Microsoft is now letting British users accrue points for using its Bing search engine. The points can then be transferred to a number of different rewards, including Xbox digital gift cards, Groove Music passes, and Skype credit. Microsoft is also partnering with a number of UK charities so you can donate points to these organizations instead.
Microsoft Rewards works almost identically in the UK as it does in the US. You’ll get 3 points per Bing search, and this is doubled (until August 15th) if you’re using Microsoft Edge. You can obtain a maximum of 30 points per day (60 points using Edge) through searches, or participate in quizzes to gain more. Microsoft also gives out 1 point for every pound spend at the UK online Microsoft Store. If you manage to hit 500 points in a month, there’s a second level with better rewards and the ability to earn a maximum of 150 points a day.
The entire Microsoft Rewards scheme is designed to get people using Bing. It’s one of a number of ways Microsoft attempts to convince consumers to use its search engine, alongside setting it as default in Microsoft Edge and promoting it throughout Windows 10. Microsoft Rewards is available in the UK today, with a launch in France, Germany, and Canada planned in the coming months.
Logitech's MX Master and MX Anywhere are considered by many to be some of the best mice for professional work on the market. Today, Logitech announced updated versions of both models in the MX line: the MX Master 2S and MX Anywhere 2S.
Both mice feature improved hardware over their predecessors. The sensor has been upgraded from 1,000 DPI to 4,000, resulting in a faster and smoother tracking experience, and battery life has been nearly doubled from 40 days up to 70. The two mice are otherwise largely similar to the previous version, with the same design, excellent mechanical scroll wheels, and button layouts (although the new black-and-gray color is certainly preferable to the odd black/bronze model from the last generation.)
But the biggest addition is a new software feature called Logitech Flow. While the previous versions of the MX mice were capable of quickly switching between multiple computers at the press of a button on the bottom, Flow takes it a step further, by seamlessly allowing the mouse to switch between two different computers just like a single computer switching between two monitors. So, simply drag your mouse over to the edge of one computer, and the cursor will seamlessly pop up on the other computer automatically. It’s basically a software version of the old keyboard-video-mouse (KVM) hardware switches that have been around for years.
While I don't personally use multiple computers at the same time, according to Logitech, over 39% of adults in the US do, for purposes like programming, video editing, and stock trading. And if you do use multiple computers like this, then Flow is a pretty slick trick.
Flow works by linking two computers connected to the same Wi-Fi network, and is compatible with both Macs and PCs at the same time. Things like copying and pasting text, images, or even whole files works across the computers — in a hands on demo, I saw a single mouse copy from a TextEdit document on a MacBook Pro and paste it to a Surface sitting next to it.
Flow also is compatible with several other Logitech mice, including M585 Multi-Device and M590 Multi-Device Silent, along with several keyboards (the Flow software uses the mouse location to decide which computer the keyboard inputs to.)
The MX Master 2S is available now for $99.99, while the MX Anywhere 2S sells for $79.99.
One of the most interesting news stories to come out of Computex Taipei, for my money, was Nvidia’s Max-Q — it’s a whole new design approach to gaming laptops, helping manufacturers put powerful GPUs like the GTX 1080 inside slim notebooks. It was a little amusing, then, to see Zotac use the same show to announce the world’s smallest version of Nvidia’s fastest gaming GPU: behold the Zotac GeForce GTX 1080 Ti Mini, which absolutely will not fit into any laptop.
It’s not a fair comparison, of course: Nvidia’s laptop GPUs are already clocked lower than their desktop counterparts to reduce the need for giant cooling systems like you see here, and Max-Q devices use software to further optimize their performance. Zotac’s GTX 1080 Ti Mini is for PC builders who aren’t willing to compromise on power but still want a reasonably small system — at 8.3 inches long, it shouldn’t have any problem fitting into a mini ATX tower.
The card’s size is more impressive when you view it next to the rest of Zotac’s hulking GTX 1080 Ti range, as seen below. Zotac hasn’t announced pricing or availability just yet.
Silk Road founder Ross Ulbricht is set to serve life in prison after he lost his court appeal this week. Ulbricht earned seven convictions — including money laundering and narcotics conspiracy — for operating the drug marketplace in 2015, filing his appeal later that same year, and arguing it in court in 2016.
Ulbricht’s appeal claimed that the court should not have seen documents obtained in alleged breach of Fourth Amendment rights, and that it made mistakes during his trial process that should have led to a mistrial. Ulbricht — also known as “Dread Pirate Roberts” online — also contended that the lifetime sentence handed down by the judge was unreasonable, forcing him to spend longer in prison than others convicted of similar charges.
In this case, his sentence is unusually long due to a “kingpin” charge prosecutors were able to make stick — a conviction usually reserved for major cartel leaders designed to ensure they remain behind bars for the rest of their lives. While Ulbricht himself wasn’t a major drug dealer in the classic mold, the hefty sentence shows how law enforcement officials saw his Silk Road network, and how it helped to redefine the global narcotics black market.

“Gluten-free” labels are mostly reliable, the Food and Drug Administration announced on Tuesday. That sounds like a no-brainer — of course foods labeled as gluten free shouldn’t have any gluten in them, right? But that hasn’t always been the case; I can tell you, as a person with celiac disease, that it’s a relief to find out the labels are actually meaningful these days.
Since 2014, the FDA has required that anything labeled “gluten free” contain no more than 20 molecules of gluten in every million molecules of foodstuff. And to back up that requirement, it actually goes out and checks. Of the 250 different cereals, flours, baking mixes, and granola bars it tested from 2015 through 2016, only one product contained more gluten than allowed, according to the results that the FDA released this week. The sole gluten-containing product, which STAT identified as Honey Nut Cheerios, was promptly recalled and General Mills changed how it made the cereal. When the FDA tested it again: no more gluten.
Before 2014, a “gluten-free” label was more a decoration than a promise. Of course these days, it seems like everyone and their dogs are on gluten-free diets. But when I was diagnosed with celiac disease 14 years ago, it was the dark ages before Miley Cyrus called gluten “crapppp” on Twitter and McGnaw the Gluten Free Beaver danced on The Colbert Report. To find out if something was truly safe to eat, I had to test it myself.
Back then, no one knew what the hell I was saying when I asked whether a food was gluten free. (I still remember a confused waiter responding, “No, you have to pay for it.”) I’d have to explain that gluten is a type of protein in wheat, rye, and barley. In certain people, it can trigger an autoimmune reaction that obliterates the lining of their guts and makes them feel like crap for days. So, does this salad come with the croutons already mixed in, or can I get it without them?
The hard part about sticking to a gluten-free diet wasn’t cutting out the usual gluten-containing suspects. By the time my doctor figured out was wrong with me, I was so sick I couldn’t even stand the smell of baking bread or a boiling pot of pasta. No, the hard part was figuring out where sneakier gluten was lurking. Was it floating in soy sauce? Beefing up the volume of spices? Mixed into the medications I use every day? Hiding in difficult-to-decipher ingredients like modified food starch, or maybe tocopherol?
That’s why it was such a bummer that the “gluten-free” label didn’t mean anything concrete. It was enough to make you paranoid that the evil protein was everywhere, just waiting to send you running to the nearest bathroom. (Or leave you straining in that bathroom for days, depending on your body’s favorite flavor of gluten reaction.)
So, my parents bought test kits, which made for a fun family science experiment where bad lab technique could mean diarrhea later on. We’d smash up little bits of food at the dinner table, stick the mess in some sort of liquid, plop in a dipstick, and wait until we could see a positive or negative readout. For whatever reason, anything with apples always came up positive with the particular test kit we used. I don’t know if the test just wasn’t specific enough and these were false positives, or if apple juice and apple sauce really were frequently contaminated. I mostly stayed away from them, just in case.
That all changed in 2013, when the FDA told manufacturers their products needed to contain less than 20 parts per million of gluten if they wanted to say it was gluten free. And in 2014, the FDA started enforcing the rule — presumably with better equipment than I had. I haven’t used a test kit in years, anyway, and this week’s announcement reassured me I don’t have to: I can continue eating foods labeled gluten free, confident that I won’t need to plan the next few days around where the nearest toilets are. I could even eat gluten-free apple sauce, if I wanted to. But, really, I’m good.

President Donald Trump has yet to make a formal announcement on whether the US will remain part of the world’s largest climate commitment, but Apple CEO Tim Cook today joined the growing list of executives calling Trump to ask him not to back out. According to Bloomberg, Cook placed a call to the White House yesterday to try and convince the president that the 2015 Paris Agreement, which aims to lower greenhouse gases and mitigate the risks of climate change, was in the best interest of the country’s economic sector. News of Trump privately coming to the decision to withdraw the US from the agreement was first reported by Axios early this morning.
Cook’s plea aligns with that of more than 25 major companies’ executives who have all signed a letter in favor of the climate pact to be published as a full-page ad tomorrow in both The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal. Though both Apple as a corporation and Cook in his personal capacity have been outspoken proponents of environmental protection, it appears Cook, as well as many other executives, are trying to appeal to Trump’s nationalistic tendencies by implying that the US would put at a global disadvantage by pulling out of the Paris Agreement, according to Bloomberg. Apple was not immediately available for comment.
Alongside Cook, Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk also voiced his displeasure with the possibility of the US leaving the climate accord. On Twitter earlier today, Musk wrote, “Don't know which way Paris will go, but I've done all I can to advise directly to POTUS, through others in WH & via councils, that we remain.” Musk was asked what his reaction would be if Trump does decide to withdraw the US from the Paris Agreement. He responded, “Will have no choice but to depart councils in that case.” As it stands, Musk advises the president’s Manufacturing Jobs Initiative and his Strategic and Policy Forum.
Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen has spent the last six years working on a giant aircraft capable of launching rockets to space. Today, his company Stratolaunch Systems literally rolled that plane out of its hangar in the Mojave Desert for the first time ever.
It’s called the Stratolaunch aircraft, and it’s massive. The plane has a 385-foot wingspan, which makes it the largest in the world by that metric. It weighs about 500,000 pounds dry, but that can swell to a maximum takeoff weight of 1.3 million pounds. Stratolaunch moves all that weight across the ground on 28 wheels, and eventually will carry its cargo through the air thanks to six 747 aircraft engines.
Why so big? Allen plans to use the Stratolaunch plane as an airborne rocket launcher. Instead of taking off from a launchpad, which requires lots of fuel, Stratolaunch will give rockets a head start by first carrying them up into the sky. It’s already got one customer, too — private spaceflight company Orbital ATK inked a deal with Stratolaunch Systems last October to use the giant plane as a launcher for its Pegasus XL rocket, which is used to send small satellites into space.
Here's video of the first roll out of the world's largest plane. pic.twitter.com/RJarl0dFRJ
The idea is similar to Allen’s first space venture, SpaceShipOne. That aircraft won Allen and his partners the Ansari X Prize in 2004, a competition started by the X Prize Foundation to create the first private reusable spacecraft. SpaceShipOne also went on to serve as the basis for the spacecraft used by Richard Branson’s spaceflight company Virgin Galactic. (Virgin Galactic also recently spun off its own air-launcher project into a company called Virgin Orbit, which uses a single 747 aircraft to launch rockets to space.)
But before Stratolaunch takes Orbital’s (or anyone else’s) rockets for a ride, it has to finish testing the aircraft. Today was just about removing the plane’s support scaffolding, letting its wheels experience the full weight of the craft for the first time, and getting it out the door. “This was a crucial step in preparing the aircraft for ground testing, engine runs, taxi tests, and ultimately first flight,” the company wrote on its website. If all that goes well, Stratolaunch could perform its first demonstration flight in 2019.
One of my favorite gadgets at CES this January was the Norton Core. Not exactly for what it claims to accomplish — securing a home network filled with vulnerable IoT devices — but because it looks so weird while doing it.
BullGuard, the antivirus company, is now on the scene with Dojo, its own network security hardware, which offers an even stranger form factor. The core idea is the same: Dojo sits in between your modem and Wi-Fi router — or jacks straight into your ISP's router if you use that — and takes over network management and firewall duties. With the accompanying app, you can check on the security status of your network, approve new devices asking to join the Wi-Fi, and adjust other settings.
What makes Dojo weird is the included Dojo Pebble, which takes four AA batteries and communicates wirelessly with the base station. The Pebble lights up green if your network is good, orange if there's a problem with malware or another threat that Dojo's software knows how to deal with, and red if manual intervention is required — like authorizing access. There don’t seem to be any additional smarts in the Pebble, which is confusing because in some of the videos on the Dojo YouTube channel it looks like the Pebble is responsible for scanning and mapping your Wi-Fi, which wouldn’t make any sense.
BullGuard claims Dojo can spot strange network behavior and stop it in its tracks, using machine learning and crowdsourced information in the cloud gleaned from other (anonymous) Dojo users. Specific devices Dojo is meant to safeguard include TVs, baby monitors, connected cameras, thermostats, and, of course, regular old computers and phones.
Dojo costs $199.99 and is available for order today, according to Wired, but Amazon lists an expected ship date of one to two months from now.
Sara M. Lyons, a California-based illustrator and designer, has accused Snapchat of ripping off her design for one of its filters. The design in question, a pair of hands making the “whatever” sign, was a filter available to some users last night and this morning.
Lyons points out on Twitter that although her original design is fairly simple, the finger placement in Snapchat’s filter (above) and her own illustration (below) is very similar. Lyons says Snapchat’s filter looks like a traced and flipped version of her illustration.
before it was anything else it was just a drawing i did in february 2013. i coined the phrase, i hold the copyright, IT'S MINE. pic.twitter.com/oJbPL3iIiF
“I had about a dozen DMs about it on my Instagram when I woke up this morning,” Lyons told The Verge via email. “I might not have noticed it on my own because I don't use Snapchat every day, but I'm fortunate to have lots of friends and followers who recognize my work.”
Lyons says she has officially registered the design with the US Copyright Office; she also sells pins of it in her online store.
This is not the first time Snapchat has been accused of stealing the work of indie artists. In 2016, The Ringer’s Molly McHugh reported that Snapchat was apparently cribbing filter ideas from makeup artists and other graphic artists. That same year, a colorful geometric face filter appeared to heavily borrow from the work of Russian artist Alexander Khokhlov. Snapchat eventually removed the filter, calling it an “embarrassing mistake.”
how gross and sad that @Snapchat couldn't just commission ME for this filter lol u know they can afford it
In the Ringer report, McHugh notes that it would be difficult to argue a court case against Snapchat for copyright infringement because it’s tough to “quantify the value of a filter.” On Twitter, Lyons has asked Snapchat to get in touch with her personally.
“It'd be amazing if Snapchat reached out directly to make things right,” Lyons said. “However, my copyright has been infringed on this piece and others countless times since 2013, and in my experience it's pretty rare that brands do right by artists in cases like these. I like Snapchat, so hopefully they'll be one of the exceptions to the rule.”
When reached for comment, a Snapchat spokesperson provided the following statement to The Verge: “We became aware of similarities between a new Snapchat Geofilter and one of Ms. Lyons' designs early today. While there are important differences between the two designs, out of respect for Ms. Lyons we decided to disable the filter immediately while we investigated. It was removed from Snapchat this morning.”
Update 6:28PM ET: Updated to add Snapchat’s statement.
Hillary Clinton says that Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos “saved” The Washington Post by buying it in 2013, setting an example that more tech moguls should follow. “I think Jeff Bezos saved The Washington Post,” she said, during an interview with Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher at Recode’s Code Conference. “I think a lot of people, a lot of his peers and friends, thought — why would you buy this ancient medium called a newspaper? But newspapers like the Post, the Journal, the Times, a few others, still drive news. It drives news online, drives news on TV.”
“I think it was a very good use of his financial resources,” Clinton continued. “Because now we have a very good newspaper again operating in Washington, and driving news elsewhere.”
The topic came up during a discussion of how Democrats can compete with Republicans’ strong local television and radio presence. “You would be a great advisor to one or more of our tech billionaires who want to buy some media,” Clinton joked to Mossberg. “Well then, we're going to have to find other people who will compete against what is a considerable advantage on the other side,” she said when he demurred.
Since Trump’s inauguration, The Washington Post has broken several potentially damaging political scoops about the administration, including a recent allegation that Trump advisor and son-in-law Jared Kushner proposed creating a communication back channel with Russia after the election. Clinton praised Bezos for the paper’s reporting, saying he was “hands-off on the editorial and content front, and he's basically said, ‘Get out there and do investigations.’ And they're doing some of the best investigations about what's going on with the White House now.”
Hillary Clinton, in an interview at Recode’s Code Conference earlier today, said she believes that Russia was “guided by Americans” in the way that it weaponized information during the final days of her presidential campaign against Donald Trump.
“Seventeen agencies, all in agreement, concluded with high confidence that the Russians ran an extensive information war campaign against my campaign to influence voters in the election,” Clinton said. She went on to say that, in her opinion and based on intelligence, Russia could not have known how to weaponize that information “unless they had been guided by Americans.”
Clinton noted that within one hour of the leak of the infamous Access Hollywood tapes — in which now-President Donald Trump spoke crudely about his nonconsensual sexual assault against women — “the Russians or say WikiLeaks — same thing — dumped the John Podesta emails."
Russia’s potential meddling in the November 2016 US presidential election is still being investigated by government agencies, with attention focused most recently on Jared Kushner, Donald Trump’s son-in-law who reportedly suggested opening a communications channel with Russian officials last year. It has been reported that other advisors and members of Trump’s campaign staff may have had indirect ties to Russian officials as well.
Clinton, who lost the electoral vote to Trump, has been reemerging to make more public appearances in recent weeks, giving a commencement speech at Wellesley College and granting access to New York magazine for a candid profile. She has mentioned a variety of factors that may have contributed to her loss, including Russia’s involvement, targeted fake news stories, persistent sexism, and a lack of inherited data from the Democratic National Committee, which has led some critics to say that Clinton has not expressed enough self-blame for the loss.




Sling TV has updated its live, streaming TV app with a straightforward grid of channel listings in an attempt to simplify the viewing experience for users. “Believe it or not, following DVR, the grid guide has consistently been our most requested feature from Sling TV customers,” the company said in a blog post announcing the new feature, which it readily admits is far from revolution.
But in all honesty, it’s pretty easy to believe that customers have been asking for a traditional electronic programming guide (EPG) that’s similar to what you’d find on a basic cable box. Sling TV’s interface has always been under-developed and somewhat befuddling to subscribers. The Dish-owned company tried to address this with an overhauled user experience at CES 2016, but bringing over the tried-and-true guide — a request second only to DVR in popularity — shows that Sling’s own approach wasn’t doing an adequate job for everyone. Customers who prefer the previous UI can easily switch back, however.
Sling TV rivals including DirecTV Now, PlayStation Vue, and YouTube TV already offer straightforward channel guides to make the switch from cable TV to streaming feel a little more familiar. Hulu’s live TV service excludes one by design, however. Before, you could perhaps look past Sling TV’s undercooked UX because of the service’s low price point. A guide should alleviate some of the confusion around actually using the product.
Sling TV is also making the “On Now” screen more useful by sorting live programming based on what’s popular with other users. A show that’s trending with other customers will be surfaced first so you can start streaming it faster. Like the guide, this is something that many cable providers (and Sling’s own parent company) already do. And to better highlight its vault of on-demand shows and movies, Sling TV will also be adding a “Featured” row for each category to the MyTV tab.
All of these changes are available on Android first — right now, in fact — and will come to Sling TV’s app on other devices in the near future.
Apple’s answer to the Amazon Echo lineup and Google Home has advanced to the manufacturing stage, according to Bloomberg. The report says that a WWDC unveiling for the product remains possible, but Apple won’t be shipping the device until later in the year.
Aside from what we’ve heard about the “Siri speaker” before (such as deep HomeKit integration and the ability to control smart home gadgets), today’s Bloomberg report says that Apple is placing a heavy emphasis on sound quality. The unannounced produced will supposedly include “virtual surround sound technology” and “more advanced acoustics” than its chief competitors made by Amazon and Google. That suggests Apple Music will also play a key role alongside the product’s Siri and HomeKit features.
Apple has “considered including sensors that measure a room’s acoustics and automatically adjust audio levels during use,” the report claims. That sounds somewhat similar to the TruePlay feature available from Sonos speakers, which uses a microphone on a mobile device to optimize sound output for that specific environment.
Apple’s WWDC keynote is coming up quickly; the event is happening this Monday starting at 10AM PT/1PM ET. The Verge will be there to cover all the news that Apple has to share — be it new software (iOS 11, macOS), MacBook Pro updates, this long-rumored speaker, or something else entirely.
Members of a Tijuana motorcycle club have spent the last few years stealing 150 Jeep Wranglers in and around the San Diego, California, area. But it’s only just this week that federal and state authorities have shed light on the particularly high-tech methods the bikers used to thieve all those cars.
The thefts date back to 2014, and each one involved a multiple-step process. First, the bikers would scout for the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) of Jeeps they wanted to steal. Then, they turned to a database maintained by the manufacturer.
It’s unclear how they gained access to the database, according to the San Diego Union Tribune, which mentions that a dealership in Cabo San Lucas “appears to be involved.” However they got it, though, it’s that access that made the thefts possible. Armed with a car’s VIN number, the thieves were able match both the pattern of the physical key as well as a code used to access (and program) the chip inside the key that talks to the car’s computer.
At this point, the thieves would return to each Jeep with a duplicate key in hand. Once the key was in the ignition, they were able to program the key’s chip using the code from the database in order to turn the Jeeps on.
The Jeeps were then brought back — whole, or in stripped parts — to Mexico to be sold. All told, $4.5 million worth of Jeep Wranglers were stolen by the group. Three of the nine members of the biker club who were indicted have been arrested, while the rest are still on the run in Mexico. Seven of the nine are US citizens.
The chips that automakers use in car keys have been the subject of a number of attacks in recent years. In 2015, researchers from Radboud University in the Netherlands and the University of Birmingham in the UK found that the “keyless entry” key fobs for certain cars made by Volkswagen, Fiat, Honda, Volvo, Porsche, and even Bentley were vulnerable to being hacked.

In an interview today at Code Conference, Hillary Clinton urged social media platforms to figure out new ways to slow “the weaponization and manipulation” of information, admitting at the same time that it was a difficult problem to solve.
“I have a lot of sympathy at this point… for people trying to make these decisions,” she said toward the end of her interview with Kara Swisher and Walt Mossberg. “I would just urge them to hurry up.”
She encouraged platforms to err “more on the curating, editorial decision-making” side of the equation, “instead of being overwhelmed by the challenge.”
The comments from Clinton came after a long discussion on how those platforms may have affected her chances during the 2016 election, as Clinton looked back on her data and analytics team. “What we thought we were doing was going to Obama 3.0 — better targeting, better messaging,” she said of the team, which had largely been carried over from Obama’s successful 2008 and 2012 campaigns. But that strategy, she claimed, was met and matched by a strategy that included spreading false information. “We weren’t in the same category as the other side,” she said.
Clinton used the example of the hack of her campaign chairman John Podesta’s emails, which she said were “anodyne” but led to conspiracy theories. Websites like Infowars manufactured the “most outrageous, outlandish, absurd lies you can imagine,” she said.
“The other side was using content that was just flat-out false and delivering it in a very personalized way,” she said, adding that she could “understand why people on their Facebook pages” could see a false story about her and not question it.
"If I put myself in the position of running a platform like Facebook, first of all, they've got to get back to trying to curate it more effectively,” she said. “Put me out of the equation, they've got to help prevent fake news from creating a new reality that does influence how people think of themselves, see the world, the decisions that they make.”
How fake news ultimately affected the election hasn’t been fully determined. Although the majority of fake news stories appears to have favored Donald Trump, one study released after the election questioned how much that false information may have changed voters’ minds, suggesting that any effect it had was minor. (At one point late in the talk, Clinton herself even seemed to allude to debunked claims that Trump had gained millions of fake Twitter followers.)
Clinton has mostly maintained a low profile since the election, and her interview at Code is one of her first major appearances. Last week, she also gave the commencement speech at Wellesley College, her alma mater.
Wacom introduced two new styluses today, one optimized for Windows 10 and another for iOS devices. Bamboo Ink, the Windows Ink stylus, is designed for writing, although it comes with three different nibs — soft, medium, and firm — for different feels. The pen works with lots of Windows devices, which Wacom says it’ll list online.
We could have anticipated this new pen given that Microsoft announced at Build earlier this month that it was expanding what people can do with their styluses. They can use the pen to interact with the Edge browser, navigate windows, write in text boxes, navigate, scroll, and select text, among other things.
Wacom is also catering to iOS users. The Bamboo Sketch has a swappable fine tip and is for sketching or drawing on an iPad or iPhone. It pairs over Bluetooth and is pressure sensitive, even on iPads other than the iPad Pro that don’t support the Apple Pencil. The Sketch charges over a custom magnetic connector and USB, and it should last for 15 hours on a charge.
Both styluses will cost $79.95 and will be available on Wacom’s website, Best Buy, and other select retailers starting in June.
With summer upon us, it’s more important than ever for streaming services to find ways to convince you to stay home instead of, you know, just going outside where the sun is (hopefully) shining. How important? Enough so that Netflix is releasing the new season of Orange Is the New Black on June 9th, and releasing its new series GLOW on June 23rd. And don’t worry if movies are more your thing; Stanley Kubrick’s Full Metal Jacket is coming to the service on June 1st, and if you like stuff that’s really terrible, you’ll also be able to watch Catwoman that very same day.
Amazon has its own plans, of course. Both versions of Francis Ford Coppola’s Apocalypse Now are coming to Amazon Prime Video in June, and the service is leaning into expanding its movie selection overall, adding titles like David Lynch’s Blue Velvet, P.T. Anderson’s Magnolia, and Mike Mills 20th Century Women.
It’s a big movie month for HBO as well, as HBO Now customers will soon get access to films like Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children, The Conjuring 2, and The Birth of a Nation. But nothing lasts forever, and on June 30th the service will also lose films like Tim Burton’s Batman (boo!), Deadpool (hiss!), and The Haunted Mansion (nevermind, we didn’t want that one anyway). For the full list of everything coming to all three services, we’ve included the full list below.

June 1st
June 2nd–14th
June 15th–18th
June 20th–27th
June 28th–30th

June 1st
June 6th–14th
June 15th–30th


June 1st

June 2nd–12th
June 17th–30th

June 1st

June 2nd–12th
June 17th–24th

June 30th

Update, June 12th, 12:45PM: Revised with 20th Century Women’s new June 28th release date on Amazon Prime.
Europe plans to add thousands of free Wi-Fi hot spots to public spaces across all EU members countries over the next few years.
The hot spots will be added as part of a plan called WiFi4EU, which was agreed to on Monday by the European Parliament, Council, and Commission. The parties agreed to add between 6,000 and 8,000 Wi-Fi hot spots by 2020.
The goal, says Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, who introduced the WiFi4EU plan last year, is to have free Wi-Fi in “every European village and every city ... around the main centers of public life.”
Areas with hot spots could include public squares, parks, and hospitals. The EU bodies will set aside €120 million (about $135 million USD) to fund the launch of these hot spots. The money will pay for the equipment needed to set up and run the hot spots, but local municipalities will be required to pay ongoing internet access costs.
While the specifics haven’t been finalized yet, the plan is to allow local authorities to apply for funding to add Wi-Fi to any applicable public space that doesn’t already have service.
WiFi4EU is part of the EU’s “Digital Single Market” initiative, which is meant to strengthen and streamline technology and regulations of it across the continent. Andrus Ansip, who’s in charge of the initiative, said in a statement that the Wi-Fi plan “is a welcome first step, but much more needs to be done to achieve high-speed connectivity across the whole EU territory.”
Eurostat says that 85 percent of EU households had broadband internet access in 2016. That’s a high figure, but it means there’s still a gap to bridge.
Hey buddy, how's it going? Everything cool? Work is good? Good to know. So yeah, anyway, I was wondering what's up with the three-foot-tall polygonal robot statue on your coffee table that's also a Bluetooth speaker?
First off, who am I to judge? I have a framed Doritos bag on my wall. I understand the appeal of "outsider art."
One sec, let's watch this YouTube trailer for the Sound Heroes video game tie-in for your Bluetooth speaker robot statue that's glaring into my soul:
See what just happened there? Do you know what I mean? No, I guess I'm not making myself clear.
Maybe this GIF pulled from your Bluetooth speaker's comic book tie-in will say it better:
I know you know what I'm getting at: $280 for a novelty Bluetooth speaker on Indiegogo that's also a charging dock, a Wi-Fi range extender, and a subwoofer? You know? 16 million RGB LED color variations? Right?
Right?
Glad we had this talk.
Some spoilers ahead through episode 4 of season 3 of Twin Peaks.
On May 21st, Showtime brought back David Lynch’s groundbreaking TV series Twin Peaks, and fulfilled a prophecy in the process. In the second season finale, back in 1991, the spirit of series-defining murder victim Laura Palmer told FBI special agent and series protagonist Dale Cooper, “I’ll see you again in 25 years.” That clip plays again in the first episode of Lynch’s Twin Peaks revival, as a reminder that decades have in fact gone by, Laura’s promise has been carried out, and a series canceled mid-story is back on the air.
A lot has changed in 25 years. The original cast members, who are mostly back on board, have all aged heavily and visibly. Many of the characters have moved on in life, getting new jobs, forming families, or taking up new obsessions. But in the opening episode, Dale Cooper was still where the show left him in 1991: trapped in the spirit domain known as the Black Lodge, at the mercy of incomprehensible forces that behave in erratic, alien ways. In other words, he’s just like anyone who’s actually watching Twin Peaks. As the third season began, the audience was also stuck back in 1991, waiting to see whether we were going to move on from the show’s many long-gestating cliffhangers. And we were also at the mercy of the incomprehensible force that is David Lynch, with his erratic, alien storytelling methods.
All protagonists are mediators who help tell audiences how to interpret the narrative around them, but Dale Cooper is something else entirely: he is the audience, stumbling through Lynch’s obscure vision, and mutating along with it. The show’s tone, budget, and format have all changed with the 2017 revival, and Cooper, too, has changed — more so than any other character on the show. But he’s changed in ways we should recognize. They’re the same ways we’ve changed, as Twin Peaks has progressed from era-defining hit to weird cable art-experiment. The old series followed Agent Cooper through the painful, awkward process of maturing as an agent and a man. And his development happened in parallel with the maturing of a TV audience that had to learn how to follow a new kind of story.
Today, viewers have more sophisticated expectations than they did in the 1990s. They expect long arcs, slow character development, and mysteries that may take hours of air time to explore, let alone to decode. But Showtime’s new series is still leaving viewers curious, frustrated, baffled, and without the tools to translate what they’re seeing — which is exactly what Agent Cooper seems to be feeling right now as well.
Consider Cooper as he started Twin Peaks back in 1990, as a fresh-faced, perky outsider walking into a mid-sized mountain community with no idea what to expect. Like the audience, he was entranced by the town of Twin Peaks — its quirky people, its unexpected pleasures, the sheer vividness of everything around him. Yes, he was there to solve a murder, but he was endlessly confident about his ability to tackle any case. The audience felt the same natural confidence. We knew how TV murder mysteries went. We thought we knew exactly what to expect from that end of the story: some procedural details, some red herrings, some drama, and eventually a solution.
But like Cooper, we were seduced and distracted by Twin Peaks’ unexpected pleasures, the way the town unfolded on-screen, with all its strange domestic soap opera dramas and oddball interactions. Like Coop, we found our fun in the unusual texture and color of the world David Lynch and Mark Frost built. In those early days, Twin Peaks was a popular fad — the two-hour pilot was the season’s highest-rated TV movie — and the popular way to appreciate it was by emulating Dale Cooper’s experience as much as possible. Lifestyle pieces proliferated in the media, tracking people who threw Peaks parties to watch the show while eating all the things Cooper rhapsodized about in the early episodes: stacks of doughnuts, cherry pie, coffee, and breakfast food. (“Nothing beats the taste sensation when maple syrup collides with ham!” he chirps in episode 4.) The audience didn’t just want to watch Cooper solving a mystery, they wanted to be him, experiencing his outsized cheer for the world.
As the story went on, though, the tone darkened. Cooper lost his Boy Scout enthusiasm for food and the smell of Douglas firs. As more details emerged in the Laura Palmer murder case, another victim surfaced, and the supernatural side of the story emerged, Twin Peaks stopped sending Cooper on wacky cosplay adventures to Canada, and letting him vet his clues with oddball psychic experiments. It started confronting him with unexpected, alarming experiences. He took the first one in stride: visiting the Black Lodge in a dream, he returned convinced that he’d solved the murder, and that all would be well once he remembered the solution. Like us, he didn’t really understand what was going on at that point of the story, but he was still optimistic, and still willing to roll with every strange new revelation.
Then Cooper got shot. The second season of Twin Peaks opened with him bleeding on the ground, enduring the unhelpful attentions of “the world’s oldest waiter,” listening to a glowing giant who dispenses information without acknowledging that Cooper may not live to use it, and having a strained one-way conversation with his voice-activated tape recorder. The viewers suffered along with him, through excruciating events that seemed drawn out to the point of perversity. Suddenly, being Agent Dale Cooper wasn’t fun anymore. His confidence was punctured, and we were all baffled and helpless together.
There are moments in season 2 where Cooper bounces back into form, but they’re outnumbered by events that exhaust and chasten him, visibly transforming him into a more solemn, internal man. Jean Renault held him hostage, beat him, and threatened to murder him, suggesting Cooper was the cause of the town’s growing darkness. His former FBI partner Windom Earle brought a new chaos to town, and revealed Cooper’s past failings. Cooper lost his FBI standing and his love interest. He saw Earle’s soul consumed in front of him. A murderous monster took his place in the outside world. By the time season 2 ended, the audience had seen Cooper frightened, powerless, and confused as much as it ever saw him confident and in control. He stopped being a motive force in the world, and became a passive object in his own story. The series’s cancellation left viewers just as rudderless and abandoned as he was.
Cooper’s trend toward impotence over the course of Twin Peaks’ original series run made for an ambitious and personal story. In the 1990s, TV viewers weren’t used to long-arc serial dramas where the protagonist changed rapidly and irrevocably, the way protagonists are expected to in today’s stories. But while Twin Peaks’ arc was compelling to many of the fans who stuck with it, it was wearying and demoralizing as well. The ratings trended steadily and sharply downward, peaking at milestones — the second season premiere, the reveal of who killed Laura Palmer — but still plummeting from the early days. The ratings drop was a form of feedback from a viewership who, like Cooper, weren’t confident and eager anymore. They began rejecting the show as it rejected its early tone, and its early promise. As Twin Peaks developed, it became clear that it was about the maturing of a hero, but it was also about how the vast and incomprehensible aspects of his world claimed, consumed, and broke him. Viewers couldn’t be blamed for pulling away from that story.
And as Lynch withdrew from the show, it became narratively muddled, inconsistent, and sometimes downright silly. Cooper’s story remains one relatively consistent throughline, but it’s a tragic one, in which a fan-favorite character, the voice and point of view of the series, loses his joy, his freedom, and his capacity to control his own life. And it became the story of an audience that flocked to the show for lively, quirky surprises, and wound up splintered, divided, and uncertain.
Showtime’s series launches with Agent Cooper as thoroughly broken as he’s ever been. The first two episodes find him still trapped in the Lodge, facing the shrieking spirit of Laura Palmer and an angry human-sized nervous system topped by a pulsing, talking brain. He’s ejected into space, threatened by an unseen force, and rescued by a blinded woman with unclear motives who helps him in unclear ways. Finally, he’s fed through an electrical socket into what seems to be a decoy body, living its own life until he takes it over. By episode 4 of the series, he’s stumbling around in a lobotomized daze, repeating whatever people say to him, bellowing “Help” at random strangers and “Helloooooo!” at slot machines. He’s confused, helpless, and only slowly regaining the tools he needs to function in this world.
And so are we. The knowledge that Lynch has been given creative control of the show is a form of reassurance, a promise that even if the new Peaks narrative is baffling and bizarre, it’s at least intended. It’s not the work of slot-fillers trying to pad out an infinitely ongoing program; it’s a creative mastermind trying to tell a specific story. But that story is once again leaving viewers at sea, trying to pick apart Lynch’s work for tiny clues about what they’re watching. We’re back in Dale Cooper’s position, wandering through a freshly revived world, and trying to catch up with the ways it’s moved on in his absence.
The problem with the new Peaks as of episode 4, though, is that we have so little basis for understanding who our audience avatar is right now. Is Cooper mentally impaired because he’s spent 25 years outside of time and space? Because he’s stuck in a false, constructed body? Because Bob claimed some part of him while stealing his identity? Or just because Lynch thinks it’s funny to have Kyle MacLachlan staggering around blank-faced, with a tie on his head and a dozen-word vocabulary? What are the stakes of the story at this point? What is the audience to make of a narrative shaped by a character who isn’t capable of anything but following orders, following glowing magical sigils, and repeating whatever he hears? Like us, Cooper seems to have virtually no way of interpreting what he’s seeing. For now, he’s just along for the ride.
There’s no reason to believe that old Agent Cooper will ever return to Twin Peaks. The brash, confident, charmingly oddball young man he was in 1990 is long gone, and with good reason, given what he’s been through. In the same sort of way, no revival could ever recapture what Twin Peaks meant to audiences in 1990, when it was all so new and fresh and strange, so unlike anything that had ever appeared on network television.
But he’s still around in some form, still bouncing through the trials of a Lynchian world. What’s missing now is any sense that he can help us understand what those trials mean. 1990s Cooper was an active force in his own story. He helped us navigate his surroundings, and see them with humor and wonder. He claimed, perhaps wrongly, but still convincingly, that there was order somewhere in the chaos. It’s natural for us to want to return to a mode where he can actively participate in his own story, where he’s helping solve its mysteries, instead of acting as its biggest conundrum. But even with his humanity lost and his agency gone, he still represents us onscreen. Even when he’s free-floating through a haze of glass boxes and stop-motion nightmares, we’re still with him. We’re still all Agent Cooper, navigating the mystery, and waiting to see where this is all going.
Interviewed by reporter Peter Kafka at Recode’s Code Conference today, Reed Hastings addressed recent months’ controversy around Netflix competing at the Cannes Film Festival.
Given Netflix’s refusal to release its competition films — Bong Joon-ho’s Okja and Noah Baumbach’s The Meyerowitz Stories — in French theaters, the French film industry’s governing body threw its weight around a bit, prompting Cannes to disqualify streaming-only films in future years. Many reports from the festival suggested that the tension was ongoing — including tweets about Okja’s Netflix title card being booed, as well as the films’ stars and creative team (and totally unrelated industry peers) weighing in on the drama.
Related
Asked to explain what happened, Hastings told Kafka that the National Federation of French Cinemas has “roughly half” of the board seats at Cannes. “They got the festival director to threaten to pull us out, which got a bunch of press. He kept us in because artistic integrity should be the trumping principle. It was very messy ... Sometimes the establishment is clumsy when it tries to shut out the insurgent, and then the insurgent’s role is to play that up, which we did.”
Hastings clarified that he doesn’t believe Netflix “picked” a fight with Cannes, but the controversy worked out as free press for the two films, which “got it on their own, on artistic merit.”
Says Hastings: “We don’t really want to fight with anyone… [When] someone picks a fight with us, it brings [us] attention, [and] it’s fantastic for us. Most importantly it’s fantastic for Okja and Meyerowitz Stories… they’ll get a lot more awareness.”
The conversation at Code Conference centered on Netflix’s work making original films, with Kafka also asking about how the strategy differs from that for Netflix’s many original TV series. Hastings was reluctant to answer, saying, “You’re drawing a firm line between them and we look at them more fluidly.” It’s an interesting response, given the frequent criticism that some of Netflix’s original series are just overly long movies, drawn out for little reason.
Pointing out that Netflix’s Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon was acknowledged as a failure in its latest investor letter, Kafka prompted Hastings to concede that Netflix is, if not struggling with the new venture, at least having a harder time than it did with TV: “I don’t know that movies are that much harder, we just had chosen first to do serialized entertainment because you get into a show and you get excited and addicted about it and binge-viewing is a very novel thing that we pioneered. There’s no movie equivalent.”
The interview briefly addressed Netflix’s few original series cancelations (Hastings mentions only Marco Polo and The Get Down, tragically forgetting the always-forgotten Bloodline), and Hastings brushed off Kafka’s suggestion that these were big, embarrassing failed bets: “They were a small percentage, like 1 percent of the total budget for original content. So they’re big in absolute dollars, no question, but not as a percentage.” He continued, adding, “If anything, what I push our content team on is you should have more things that don’t work out. You gotta get more aggressive. The drive towards conformity as you grow as a company is very substantial.”
Hastings also discussed net neutrality, which he says is no longer a political priority for Netflix, and theatrical distribution of film (as a general concept), which he sees living side by side with streaming releases. An audience member asked him what a Netflix movie theater would look like and he said “a 60-inch OLED 4K TV in your living room.”
As President Trump eyes backing out of the world’s largest climate agreement, he may lose one of his most prominent advisors from the tech world. Today on Twitter, Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk announced that if President Trump publicly withdraws from the international Paris agreement, Musk will respond by withdrawing from all White House advisory councils.
“[I] don't know which way Paris will go,” Musk tweeted, “but I've done all I can to advise directly to POTUS, through others in WH & via councils, that we remain.” When asked what he would do if Trump withdraws from the Paris agreement, Musk responded, “will have no choice but to depart councils in that case.” Musk currently advises the president’s Manufacturing Jobs Initiative, as well as the Strategic and Policy Forum.
The president has yet to make a public decision on whether the US will remain in the Paris agreement, but this morning, Axios reported he had privately decided to withdraw. The Paris agreement is voluntary and carries no penalties for nations that fail to meet their set targets, leading many to question the benefit of a formal withdrawal, even in the absence of decarbonization efforts.
Musk has drawn harsh criticism for his willingness to serve on the Trump administration’s various advisory councils, but has defended the move as a way to influence the president on crucial climate issues, including the Paris agreement and carbon tax proposals. Musk’s businesses benefit significantly from tax credits for electric cars and solar panel installations, and NASA contracts are one of SpaceX’s primary sources of revenue. Still, Musk has long argued his advocacy is focused on climate policy rather than personal gain, a stance confirmed by today’s statement.
At the same time, the effects of global climate change continue to be felt around the world. NASA records showed 2016 as the warmest year on record, recorded as 1.78 degrees Fahrenheit warmer than the 20th century average.
Slowpoke, Magikarp, and Magnemite are not the best-known faces of Pokémon (clearly that’s Pikachu), but all three share a special honor: their very own theme song. The Japanese Pokemon Official YouTube Channel released a new anthem for Magnemite, a frantic song that’s basically a Where’s Waldo-style music video.
I don’t think I ever realized how tiny Magnemite apparently is, or how creepy it can get. It lurks among your desk supplies, your bathroom tile, your foiled leftovers, and even your private messages like a one-eyed, leering virus. It looks absolutely terrible with hair. But this song is still much kinder than Magikarp’s, and far less strange than Slowpoke’s so... does that make Magnemite the favorite child?
On the heels of Overwatch's one-year anniversary celebration, Blizzard is launching the next major piece of content: a new Assault map set on the Moon called Horizon Lunar Colony.
In Overwatch's fiction, Horizon Lunar Colony is the home of the genetically modified gorilla hero Winston. He was seen growing up there along with other human and gorilla test subjects to study the effect of long-term life in space in flashbacks from the previous “Recall” animated short. Following a gorilla uprising — in which most of the humans were killed — contact between the base and Earth was lost. That is, until now. (Winston himself escaped the battle and returned to Earth, where he joined the Overwatch organization.)
The new map will let players explore Winston's home, and discover more details on a new corner of Overwatch's lore in the same subtle way that Blizzard tends to dole out information on the game's storyline: through its environments.
There could be more content related to Horizon in the future, too — an early tease for the map posted on Blizzard's website notes that Winston isn't the only subject not on Horizon anymore. A specimen named Hammond also listed as missing, meaning there could be a new character coming somewhere down the line as well.
Horizon Lunar Colony is available now for PC players to try on the Overwatch Public Test Realm (PTR) server, with a console and primary PC server release likely to hit in the coming weeks.
Netflix’s chief executive officer has made no secret of the fact that he’d like movies to come to Netflix almost as soon as they’re released in theaters. Today at Recode’s Code Conference, he offered a rather optimistic view of how people will still have their in-theater experience and stream it, too: by likening the theater experience to going out to dinner, as opposed to cooking at home.
During an onstage interview with Recode’s Peter Kafka, Hastings said he thinks it’s “inevitable that the current window system breaks down,” referring to theatrical release systems, the time period before movies come to DVD and eventually become available as home rentals.
Typically, that window — which industry insiders refer to as the “dark zone” — can last up to 90 days. In recent years, some studios have considered shortening the window to two weeks, as the film industry adjusts to shrinking DVD sales and consumers’ binge-watching habits at home. Netflix, for its part, has advocated for movies to be available on streaming services the same day they’re released in theaters.
But if it that happens, that doesn’t mean that people will stop going to the theater entirely — at least, according to Hastings. He believes many will still pay for a communal experience. “Just like you go out to dinner even though you know how to cook,” he told Kafka.
That seems like a not-very-apt comparison, since, arguably, cooking at home is much less convenient than eating out, while home streaming is (especially for families with kids) more convenient than going out to movie theaters. Plus, on-demand home streaming allows for the kind of binge-watching that services like Netflix have helped popularize, whereas movie theaters clearly do not.
But it’s also not surprising that Hastings would attempt to offer a diplomatic response to a hard question about what the real future of distribution is. At a press event at Netflix headquarters back in March, Hastings emphasized to journalists that he’s not “anti-theater,” just that he wants “innovation and growth in the movie market” and to explore other kinds of distribution strategies.
Perhaps a more revealing remark is what Hastings said at Code Conference today when asked whether Netflix would launch its own movie theater chain: “no plans” to do so, he said, adding that TVs are getting so good that it makes little sense.

Speaking with Recode’s Peter Kafka at the Code Conference today, Netflix CEO Reed Hastings explained his position on the current net neutrality debate that’s happening at the FCC. Or, more to the point, he addressed the fact that he’s been awfully quiet about it compared to how loudly he defended net neutrality in previous fights.
“It’s not narrowly important to us because we’re big enough to get the deals we want,” Hastings said. It was a candid admission: no matter what the FCC decides to do with Title II, Netflix isn’t worried about its ability to survive. Hastings says that Netflix is “weighing in against” changing the current rules, but that “it’s not our primary battle at this point” and “we don’t have a special vulnerability to it.”
He does believe that smaller players are going to be harmed if net neutrality goes away, saying that “where net neutrality is really important is the Netflix of 10 years ago.”
Perhaps another reason Netflix is being a little quieter about fighting to keep current net neutrality rules is that Hastings knows it’s already a lost cause. His best guess at what will happen is exactly what FCC chair Ajit Pai has been hinting at: “It might be that ISPs just accept the principles [of net neutrality] and it’s not enshrined formally,” he said. “I think the FCC is going to unwind Title II,” he added later. And he believes that it’s in the ISPs’ “long term interest” to respect net neutrality principles, so maybe they’ll just do it on their own.
He said all that with a kind of a shrug, though.
“The Trump FCC is going to unwind the rules no matter what anybody says,” Hastings argues. He might believe that net neutrality is “important for society,” but his company, Netflix, isn’t in trouble so it’s not going to get into the fight. “We had to carry the water when we were growing up and we were small,” Hastings said. “Other companies have to be on that leading edge.”
You can’t blame a company for paying attention to its existential problems — for Netflix it’s growing globally. But if you were hoping that it would be a warrior for net neutrality now just because it was then... stop doing that.
Elgato’s new Eve Degree device will monitor both indoor and outdoor temperatures between zero degrees to 130 degrees Fahrenheit, as well as humidity levels throughout your home. And the best part is that it runs off a replaceable coin cell battery that’ll last up to a year.
Now, if you don’t feel like walking over to check the device, you can view its data through a companion iOS app or the HomeKit app. It pairs with your iPhone or iPad over Bluetooth. If you have a fourth-generation Apple TV or an iPad that’s also a Home Hub, Eve Degree can automatically trigger different actions, like turning on a humidifier if the air is dry.
Regardless of whether you’re physically watching the device, you’ll still probably want to check out the app because you’ll be able to see air pressure measurements in addition to humidity and temperature. The app visualizes all this data as historical graphs, so you can figure out trends over time. Elgato is positioning its new gadget as a tool for growing plants, especially because it’s water resistant. Maybe this is the key to keeping your plants alive. The Eve Degree goes on sale June 6th for $69.95 on Amazon and through Elgato.com.
My first 10K in April was a resounding success — until the stress of the run made me fall sick and miss work for two days. Cue my (lazy, couch-potato) friends jokingly telling me that this is proof that running is actually bad for you.
That claim is false, but there really are a lot of studies about the health benefits, or downsides, of running. An hour of running might add seven hours to your life, but too much of it might be dangerous for the heart. We hear that it’s so high-impact that it hurts your joints, but some research suggests it might actually be good for the knees. So how do we evaluate all these claims?
Let’s get one big thing out of the way: running, like everything else, is dangerous if you do it too much. However, the plain truth is that most people aren’t exercising enough. “We know that regardless of what exercise you do, it’s going to be better than doing none,” says Brandon Alderman, an exercise psychologist at Rutgers University. “We have this huge problem of inactivity and that problem is much larger than the problem of the specific dangers of any one activity.” (So take that, so-called friends. I may have fallen sick, but my 20 miles a week give me more than enough reason to be holier-than-thou.)
When it comes to the studies, we can’t always apply every result to ourselves, says Jinger Gottschall, a Pennsylvania State University kinesiologist who studies running. Often, studies look at a very limited group of people, or a specific routine that might have nothing to do with your training regimen. Some studies have given us good, generalizable rules — like replacing your running shoes every 300 miles or so — but some of the individual results are too specific. For example, there has been a lot of discussion about barefoot running, but the number of people who can safely do barefoot running on a regular basis is “very small,” says Gottschall. And while running does put more stress on the joints than, say, swimming, she contends it’s mostly safe for the knees and can even strengthen them if you do hills.
So how can you tell if a study’s results might apply to you? First, look at the demographics of people who were studied. Are they similar to you in terms of age and sex? What about their activity level — were the people sedentary and non-active in the beginning, or lifelong runners? Good studies on running will also provide information on how much someone exercised before the study, which usually includes mileage per week and a pace, so you can compare even more accurately. And treadmill running, which can often use different inclines, versus trail training sometimes have different effects, too. The more similar you are to the participants, the more you can apply the results. So a study about older men who run for five hours a week on a treadmill might not give me the most insight into what makes sense for me, a young woman who would rather never move again than run on a treadmill. (If this information isn’t provided in the write-up you’re reading, it’s usually in the abstract of the study itself, which is usually linked in an article.)
Some exercise research is directly useful, but some studies are interesting just because they give us a glimpse into the habits of the most elite runners. I am firmly in the camp of “recreational runner,” and a slow one at that, which means I remain fascinated by those much speedier than me and how I can learn from them. Matthew Bundle, a professor of biomechanics at the University of Montana, has spent the past decade studying the gait of high-level athletes to see how we can use their secrets to help us improve. His lab has a high-speed treadmill that can go a little faster than 28 miles per hour. (That’s about how fast Usain Bolt was going when he set a 100-meter world record, so it’s safe to say that we don’t need much more than that for research.)
Bundle’s team recruits athletes to use the treadmill and provide data on the forces and collisions that take place between the leg and the ground. In one experiment, they took successful college athletes — the type already winning championships — and took videos of them running using high-speed motion analysis. High-speed motion analysis can take about 1,000 frames in a second; in comparison, the instant replay of sports on TV is usually about 60 frames a second. From that, they can get an “exquisite amount of detail,” says Bundle, like that sometimes the foot is only fully touching the ground for as short as 85 milliseconds, or that as much as 4.5 times the body weight hits the ground. After watching these videos, Bundle’s team gave detailed pointers on form — like how to adjust their stride — to the athletes, and the group became better by 7 percent within three days. “We think we’re onto something here,” he says.
Bundle’s team is also studying what’s possible for our endurance. It turns out that dedicated runners — those who can run a marathon under two hours and 45 minutes, but who wouldn’t make the Olympic trials — can run for two hours at about 92 percent speed of what they can run for five minutes. “There’s still additional loss of performance, but it’s much much slower,” he says, “and so we’ve been focusing on these very short events to try and understand how the byproducts of intense muscle activity start to poison the muscle and prevent it from being able to continue to generate the kinds of forces that it needs.”
Then, on the other end of the spectrum, are people who don’t run at all. (So, me as of a year ago.) For those just starting out, what’s the most important thing? Is it the type of shoe, the type of trail, the exact mileage?
Gottschall, the Penn State kinesiologist, says it’s the details of the training program: how often you run, how quickly you increase your mileage, and how consistently you do so. Get good shoes, but don’t get too caught up on special gear like athletic bands to support the knees, which really have little science behind them.
When it comes to gait, the beginning runner doesn’t need high-speed motion analysis. Do what feels natural, she says, and don’t worry too much about getting the “right” kind of step. (I’m guilty of obsessing over this, since I’m someone who takes short steps and is envious of more graceful-looking runners with longer strides.) The ideal program is probably three to five times a week, from half an hour to 75 minutes each time, according to Gottschall. But in the beginning, the important thing is to try to stick it out for six weeks. “That seems like a long time, but that’s the point when it really starts to stick,” she says. After my 10K, I fell off running for a bit and am finding it somewhat hard to get back in the habit. Maybe it’s time for me to re-commit for another six weeks, too.

It looks like Samsung is going to miss its own deadline for launching Bixby’s voice features in the US. The Wall Street Journal is reporting this morning that the voice portion of Bixby, Samsung’s new digital assistant, won’t be ready until at least late June and that the software is still struggling to reliably understand English.
That means Bixby’s voice features will end up launching at the earliest sometime this summer — which starts June 21st — and after the “spring” target that Samsung gave in early April.
Bixby is supposed to be one of the flagship features on the Galaxy S8, which launched in the US just over a month ago. While it seems pretty safe to say that few are dying to get their hands on the full Bixby experience — it doesn’t look like a dramatic improvement over Siri or the other digital assistants we’ve seen in recent years — its absence is pretty noticeable. After all, Samsung dedicated an entire button on the S8 to launching Bixby. But with the assistant yet to launch, all the button does it pull up a Bixby app that aggregates info you might be interested in, much like Google Now.
Pandora World, the new section of Walt Disney World’s Animal Kingdom dedicated to James Cameron’s Avatar, is now open to the public. Which means, of course, the public is now posting video of the inside of the two big rides — a 3D motion simulator called Flight of Passage and a boat ride called Na'vi River Journey.
According to The Verge’s Bryan Bishop, who visited Pandora World last week, “the premise is that visitors are on a tourist trip with a company called Alpha Centauri Expeditions, or ACE.” One hundred years have passed between the events of Cameron’s 2009 film and your time in the park, and “as part of the tourist package, visitors can use the movie’s namesake mind-projection tech to take control of an avatar and fly a wild Banshee (the flagship 3D simulator attraction Flight of Passage), or take a gentle boat ride through a bioluminescent landscape and meet the sacred Shaman of Songs on the Na’vi River Journey.”
Related
You can see all that in the video above. The “lab” waiting area in the Flight of Passage ride is particularly detailed — there are informational plaques, “simulations,” and interactive exhibits to introduce Disney’s youngest tourists to the world of an eight-year-old movie they likely haven’t seen.
Na’vi River Journey looks like a solid attempt at a Disney World standard — the chill, air-conditioned ride through a neon reinterpretation of a popular fictional world. It’s not unlike the The Seas with Nemo and Friends in Epcot, or Peter Pan’s Flight in the Magic Kingdom, until you get to the incredibly life-like Shaman of Songs. (She moves like a person and she’s singing!) As Bryan reported, she’s Disney’s most advanced animatronic ever — built off of years of accrued knowledge from experiments in improving the Magic Kingdom’s Pirates of the Caribbean ride and Hall of Presidents — and it shows. I’m a little afraid of it? It’s okay, I’m not a child anymore and I don’t have to go.
Here is a slightly more intimate POV than the first embedded Flight of Passage video, though it’s not in 4K:
The New York Times is terminating its public editor position, shifting its focus to reader comments and social media conversations. Publisher Arthur Sulzberger Jr. announced in a memo that the paper has outgrown the need for the role as more and more readers provide criticism online. The Times plans on expanding its commenting platform, and current public editor Liz Spayd will leave the paper on Friday.
“There is nothing more important to our mission, or our business, than strengthening our connection with our readers,” Sulzberger Jr. wrote. “A relationship that fundamental cannot be outsourced to a single intermediary.”
The decision, which mirrors similar ones made at The Washington Post and other organizations, comes at a time when the Times is trying to improve its digital operation to help offset a declining print business. The Times Company reported earlier this month that it saw a 19 percent increase in digital revenue, but an 18 percent decrease on the print side, the lifeblood of the paper. As a result, the company is offering buyouts to editors and reporters to funnel more resources to the remaining staff.
With this in mind, the public editor job, created in the wake of 2003’s Jayson Blair plagiarism scandal, was perhaps always in peril. Complicating matters more is the fact that Spayd, who took the job last July, has been roundly criticized for publishing work that’s been called everything from “insipid” by The Outline to “disastrous” by New York magazine.
In her place, the Times will look to the recently launched Reader Center, which will, according to an earlier memo, respond “directly to tips feedback, questions, concerns, complaints and other queries from the public.”
But how viable a solution that will be is unclear. Moderation is already a murky, grueling task, and Twitter is well known for trollish behavior overwhelming civil discourse. For starters, how will the Reader Center respond to comments, tips, and tweets from trolls sending death threats? How will it manage organized harassment campaigns?
Meanwhile, it can’t be denied that the public editor can be effective at serving readers, thanks to their access to decision-makers. In response to the announcement, former Times public editor and Washington Post columnist Margaret Sullivan tweeted:
3. The one thing an ombud or public editor can almost always do is hold feet to the fire, and get a real answer out of management.
Oculus has added Google Chromecast support to the Samsung Gear VR headset, so users can stream virtual reality experiences to their TV using a new cast button on the Oculus mobile app. This means that other people can now watch what you’re doing inside virtual reality — an option that’s long been possible on tethered headsets like the Oculus Rift and PlayStation VR, but absent from phone-based mobile VR.
Oculus brags that Gear VR is the only headset to officially support Chromecast right now, although Google is including Chromecast support in a Daydream VR update rolling out later this year. Most tethered headsets are already indirectly connected to a monitor or TV, so they can mirror the headset display automatically.
People watching a cast won’t be able to interact with apps or get the full experience of being in the Gear VR. But this option can make VR seem less isolating in a group setting, and it’s easier to guide new users through the interface when you know what they’re seeing. While this may not be what most people mean by “social VR,” it’s still a welcome update — as long as it works well.
NASA is naming its upcoming mission to “touch the Sun” after Eugene Parker, a prominent astrophysicist who discovered the existence of solar wind — the charged particles that are constantly streaming from our star. The mission, originally named Solar Probe Plus, will now be called the Parker Solar Probe. It’s the first time NASA has named one of its missions after a scientist who is still alive. Parker discovered solar wind in the 1950s and is about to celebrate his 90th birthday.
The Parker Solar Probe is NASA’s plan to send a spacecraft closer to our Sun than ever before. The probe, which is being developed by Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory, is supposed to launch on top of a Delta IV Heavy rocket in either July or August of 2018 and then spend seven years getting into closer and closer orbits around the Sun. To do this, the vehicle will do seven flybys of Venus, which will eventually bring the spacecraft within 3.7 million miles of the Sun. That’s about eight times closer than any other spacecraft has been before, according to NASA.
From this distance, the Parker Solar Probe will analyze the Sun’s atmosphere, mainly to figure out the mechanics of the solar wind that Parker discovered. The Sun is constantly spewing out highly charged particles in the form of plasma — what is known as solar wind. And it’s all thanks to the Sun’s outer atmosphere, or the corona. Even though the corona extends millions of miles out into space, it is unbelievably hot — so hot that it heats up particles to such extreme temperatures that they break free of the Sun’s gravity and accelerate outward in all directions. This solar wind, which carries part of the Sun’s magnetic field, travels all the way to Earth and slams into our planet’s own magnetic field.
Fortunately, our field acts like a protective barrier, so usually this process is pretty harmless for us. But every now and then, the Sun burps out an extra helping of charged particles known as a coronal mass ejection. When this mess of particles reaches Earth, it can disturb our magnetic field enough to cause geomagnetic storms. These storms aren’t too serious, but they can mess with our power grids and communications systems, as well as damage our satellites.
We know the basics of how solar wind works, but the processes behind these particle bursts are still not totally understood. That’s what the Parker Solar Probe is going to help us figure out. The spacecraft is designed to “trace the flow of energy” that’s responsible for heating up the corona and accelerating the solar wind. And the more we know about how these processes work, the better we can get at predicting when they will happen.
Normally, NASA waits to rename its missions after launch, but the space agency decided to break protocol this time since Parker’s work has been so instrumental for the spacecraft’s mission. His discovery of solar wind has essentially changed our understanding of stars and how they interact with the space around them. Apart from getting the mission named after him, a chip with pictures of Parker will also be included on the vehicles, as well as a copy of his original paper on solar wind.

For 31 weeks last year, Adult Swim dropped a new track every Wednesday from artists like Earl Sweatshirt, Tim Hecker, and Run the Jewels. This year, the TV network is going to extend Adult Swim Singles to 52 weeks. When I asked Adult Swim’s creative director Jason DeMarco why he decided to stretch the annual music program to a full year, his response felt like an encapsulation of how Adult Swim wants you to perceive its totally chill business model: “Just to see if we could.”
That nonchalance could be one reason for Adult Swim’s wild card status in the music industry. The Singles program started in 2010, a few years after MP3 blogs began dying off, and about a year after Spotify announced its first million users. Despite listeners’ increasing apathy toward downloading, Adult Swim stubbornly made its tracks available as free downloads as well as streams, even as streaming cannibalized the industry almost entirely. Beginning today, the network’s download dedication is over. Adult Swim Singles is heading into its seventh year, and for the first time ever, it’s moving to an all-streaming model.
“People don’t download music anymore,” DeMarco said, noting that the program’s number of downloads each year only make up “less than one-sixth of the overall numbers.”
But poor download numbers aren’t enough to sink Adult Swim’s confidence in its cool, calculatedly haphazard passion project. Artists in this year’s lineup include Migos, Brian Eno, and Julian Casablancas, with dozens more still to come. With 52 artists in the roster, there’s bound to be nearly something for everyone. And even if there’s not, the network doesn’t have any real competition to worry about.
“We’re doing something no one else does,” DeMarco said. “I don’t know why they don’t do it. Maybe they don’t want to, or maybe no one is motivated enough to do it. But it’s been seven years, no one else is doing it, and I get the feeling that no one else is going to.”
I talked with DeMarco about the trajectory of the music industry, SoundCloud vs. Spotify, and what a TV network gets out of making MP3 mixtapes.
Why did you launch the Singles program in the first place?
The thinking was, when we originally had a label called William Street Records, which isn’t around anymore, we thought, “Hey, wouldn’t it be cool if we could release a single every week?” And we couldn’t pull it off. Part of my job is to create things that we can use advertiser money for, and so we thought about, “What if we did it for two months, where we gave away one song a week from different artists, and then it got sponsored and we gave sponsor money to the artists.”
Has it been difficult to convince an artist to write an original track specifically for this program?
Absolutely. It’s less about the artist. If the artist has heard of Adult Swim, they’re usually down. It usually goes one of two ways: “Who the hell is Adult Swim and why should I do this?” or “I love Adult Swim!” There’s really no in between. So usually the artist is down, but it’s more about convincing the label and the publisher that there’s value in giving away something for free that their entire existence is based on monetizing. And frankly it’s one of the reasons we’re moving to an all-streaming model. Between the number of people who actually download music decreasing drastically in the last five years, and labels and publishers, for some reason they look at downloads as way more valuable than streams. A lot of times everything will be going along great and then we’ll say, “We’re giving it away for free download,” and then the label will be like “Why?” like we’re giving away gold.
The Singles program has been uniquely obsessed with downloading tracks while the rest of the industry turns away from it.
Yeah, I think the reason we did that was because I wanted it to feel real. It’s very routine now for every artist to offer a stream of their album before the official release date a week out, and so I felt that it was less special. But I’m an old man and I still download music. Basically, when we looked at the numbers this past year, we realized that the downloads were like, less than one-sixth of the overall numbers. People don’t download music anymore, and they listen to music on their phones. I would say it was a little bit of me not wanting to accept the reality that no one wants downloads. And it makes our deals easier. We can actually reach for bigger names if we want to because it’s much less of a big deal to ask for a stream than a download.
Are you moving off-platform?
We’ll have our own proprietary player that’s embeddable so that anyone can embed tracks in their blog, but we’re also going to put them on the Adult Swim SoundCloud, at least for now. We’re talking about maybe putting them on Spotify, although that complicates things for various reasons. We put them all on YouTube as well.
Why is it more difficult to get the tracks on Spotify or Apple Music?
Legal issues and the fact that sometimes labels or artists will already have exclusivity deals of their own with these services. It just complicates things because of their existing relationships with labels and artists. I want to be able to reach out to whoever I want to reach out to and not worry about, “Oh I can be on Spotify but I can’t be on Apple Music,” or any of that kind of stuff.
We have a very short exclusivity period so each artist controls the music. They can put the track up on their own wherever they want to after a short window. So if they want to put it up on Spotify, it’ll end up there. But initially, we want [fans] to have to go to our site.
How long is Adult Swim's exclusivity window for each track?
This varies from artist to artist, but it’s usually at minimum 24 hours, and at most five days. Normally, after more than 48 hours have passed, most of the people checking out the song will be either a) big fans of the artist, or b) fans of Adult Swim. That initial release window is where we have the best shot at reaching people who might not otherwise check the song out, just through the normal music news cycle.
How does the program fit in with the music industry as a whole?
We’re kind of an outlier in that TV networks and licensing are one of the only remaining important revenue streams to artists. So in that way, we’re like a TV network because we’re licensing music for a purpose. But we’re unlike a TV network in that we’re not licensing these tracks to use in commercials, we’re just doing a music program, which most TV networks don’t do. So we kind of stick out in that ecosystem, because we’re doing something no one else does. I don’t know why they don’t do it. Maybe they don’t want to, or maybe no one is motivated enough to do it. But it’s been seven years, no one else is doing it, and I get the feeling that no one else is going to. But Adult Swim is a small and idiosyncratic network, and someone like me who loves music is empowered to do this thing that’s not a direct and obvious revenue driver, whereas someone at Viacom might not have that support.
In the music ecosystem, TV is still one of the most important revenue streams. It’s live shows, merch, and licensing. Until TV truly dies and advertisers won’t spend money on it anymore, it remains a revenue stream, but I think that is shrinking and I don’t know what replaces it.
How does the program fit in with Adult Swim the TV network?
I think music has been a part of our identity since we started, with shows like Metalocalypse to the music that’s in between our shows in the bumps. We’ve heard time and time again from fans that they love the music we use on the air, and the music in this program reflects that. On air that’s electronic music, hip-hop, and metal, and those are the three genres that the Singles Program usually focuses on.
Habitual Adult Swim fans, who are the kinds of people who would bother coming to a website every week to hear a new track, are people that are used to Adult Swim giving them music that is great. My only thing is to continue supporting artists that I think make good music and to never put a song out that I don’t really like.

In the early days of virtual reality shooters, adding another human to the experience turns out to be an easy win. Games like Raw Data, Farpoint, and the upcoming Killing Floor: Incursion are all best with two people. But Gunheart, the first game from studio Drifter Entertainment, is the only one that also lets you blow balloons with your friends between rounds.
Gunheart is launching on all major high-end VR platforms: Oculus Rift and HTC Vive this summer, then PlayStation VR later in the year. It’s designed as a full-length game for three players, with a focus on cool weapons, fast-moving combat, and cooperation. Imagine an even more frenetic version of Borderlands in VR, with greater immersion but — so far — a lot less character.
Although Gunheart comes from a new studio, the game’s core team is made up of experienced developers. Ray Davis was general manager at Epic Games, where he worked on the Gears of War series and on Robo Recall, one of the most polished VR shooters ever made. Kenneth Scott is a longtime art director who previously worked at id Software and Oculus. And Brian Murphy is a former designer and creative director at Microsoft.
Unfortunately, like a lot of VR games, Gunheart looks generic on the surface. Its name sounds like something from a Rob Liefeld superhero generator, and its central conflict — killing bug-like monsters in a rocky alien landscape — is the premise of Farpoint as well. Cooperative play is a great element to add, but it’s also a shortcut that lets developers avoid having to create characters or compelling narratives. VR games have to be developed on an aggressive timeline to keep up with the fast-changing industry, and Gunheart looks like one of the more substantive efforts. But it doesn’t feel distinctive in the way we expect from good non-VR games, even ones enjoyed mostly for their gameplay.
In Gunheart’s favor, the gameplay is shaping up to be a lot of fun, based on my run through an early build of one level. It pulls together an armory based on items people already love using with motion controls, including conventional weapons, a crossbow, and a disc-throwing gun reminiscent of the science fiction frisbees in sports games RipCoil and Sparc. Players can wield one in each hand, or combine them into a unique super-weapon by holding their hands together. You could probably go it alone, but you wouldn’t be able to surround enemies with other people, or have one person lay down fire with a long-range weapon while another gets up close with a shotgun.
Gunheart’s teleportation system makes it possible to reach places you’d never get with standard video game running or jumping. You can pop instantly around areas to find cover spots and vantage points, or rush an enemy and then blink back to revive a fallen partner. “A lot of VR developers early on looked at teleport as sort of a handicap” that caused less motion sickness than running, says Davis. “We really embraced it as a first-class citizen, and realized it feels like a superpower.” It’s also apparently easier to get players to notice things above their heads in VR. “It unlocks vertical spaces in a way that we always wanted to do in shooters,” Murphy says.
And although the game badly needs a fresher aesthetic, it does have one clever feature I haven’t found anywhere else: the standard multiplayer “lobby” is a literal lobby, or at least a spacious lounge. Instead of holding guns, players use a device in their hands to blow balloons, draw voxels in midair, or produce a giant foam hand to give high-fives. Will most people spend much time here? It’s hard to say. And when players start games with random strangers instead of acquaintances, Drifter will also need a robust anti-harassment system, if it wants to avoid the problems other VR games have faced. But the lobby still offers a non-violent playfulness that’s rare in shooters.
Gunheart still feels very much like a first-wave VR game, but it’s riding the tail end of that wave, learning from the early successes and failures of VR shooters. I just hope I can find enough friends with headsets to play it.
Early on in Tokyo 42, I found myself being chased through a busy thoroughfare by gun-wielding thugs. Civilians rushed off in every direction as bullets whizzed past, and flickering electronic billboards only added to the visual madness. I managed to blend in for a brief period using a holographic projector to change my appearance, but I knew it wouldn’t last for long. I had to get away. I jumped over a large concrete staircase — and was surprised when I landed with a soft thud on some picturesque green grass. Amid the game’s futuristic urban sprawl, I found myself in a quaint zen garden.
“It’s definitely cyberpunk with its dystopic premise,” Maciek Strychalski, one half of developer Smac Games, says of the game, “but aesthetically it’s slightly off.”
Rather than wallow in seedy alleys and overcrowded streets, Tokyo 42 opts to lighten things up. The isometric game features a zoomed-out perspective, providing wide view of near-future Tokyo. The action is set on the city’s surprisingly bustling rooftops against its beautiful, cloudy sky. There are still plenty of flying cars and electronic billboards, and Tokyo 42 takes on plenty of gritty sci-fi subject matter. But it’s also bright, colorful, and charming, with a toy-like sense of style — a cross between Ghost in the Shell and Monument Valley.
Tokyo 42 follows a man framed for a crime he didn’t commit. He sets about clearing his name by taking on murder-for-hire jobs in order to delve deeper into the city’s criminal underbelly, and find the actual responsible party. It’s typical genre stuff, loaded with corporate intrigue and violent criminal organizations. The real standout is the city itself, and how it’s experienced through the top-down isometric perspective.
Tokyo 42’s version of the Japanese capital looks like an immaculately detailed model. Because the camera is so far from the action, everything looks tiny — from the minuscule citizens milling about, to the Lego-like stacks of modular apartment buildings. You explore the twee city as you take on different jobs, which mostly revolve around the not-so-twee act of killing people. Sometimes you’ll need to find an ideal spot to plant a sniper rifle and take out a mark from afar. Other times you’ll need to wield a blade and silently infiltrate a criminal stronghold.
The isometric perspective has its roots in much older games — it was originally used in games as a way to fake 3D graphics — but in Tokyo 42 it feels fresh and modern. You can rotate the camera around to view the urban landscape from multiple angles, and the city itself is almost like a diminutive take on the open-world genre. Though it’s not especially massive, it’s surprisingly open, offering the freedom to try different routes and tactics to complete missions.
The place is simply a joy to walk around. In addition to seedy hideouts and busy transportation hubs, the rooftop city is home to relaxing zen gardens and serene urban waterfalls. Tokyo 42 is primarily a game about murder, yet the experience is often peaceful and playful. The perspective makes it feel more detached than more visceral 3D shooters, so I never felt especially guilty when I’d accidentally lob a grenade into a busy crowd or take out an innocent bystander with an errant sword swing. And so the city feels more like a playground. There are plenty of areas to hide from pursuing enemies or sneak up on a target, and the game’s floaty, exaggerated jump adds a touch of urban parkour as you find new ways to get about.
Strychalski and his brother Sean Wright originally decided with Tokyo 42 to make a game together inspired by the titles they grew up playing, in particular the original Grand Theft Auto and Syndicate. One of the goals was to take the ideas in those games — namely the idea of a large isometric world — and expand on them. “There was the kind of promise of this open city, which [Rockstar] fulfilled with the later games in three dimensions, but they never did it from the god-view, top-down,” explains Strychalski. “I personally wanted to take that idea: ‘What if GTA III wasn’t a third-person thing, but it kept the same perspective as the original ones?’”
The world of Tokyo 42 is larger and offers more freedom than its inspirations. It’s also noticeably more vertical: instead of moving through city streets, you’re constantly shifting up and down the rooftops of buildings, navigating twisting staircases and perilous drops. This had a practical benefit, as it allowed the two-man team to create a plausibly small slice of a huge metropolis. “We didn’t want to have invisible walls,” says Wright. “Our solution to that was to put it all on rooftops — you can believe there’s a whole ground level as well.” But it also helped them create a very specific kind of moment, one inspired in part by Assassin’s Creed. “We wanted to get that feeling of being able to stand on top of a building and look out at the city,” Strychalski says.
For all of its new features and ideas, Tokyo 42’s influences are clear when you play. And that’s not something the developers were trying to avoid. “In the process of making our own thing, it’s so comforting to be able to look at games like that and draw on one of their mechanics and just be like ‘Well I know that works because I loved using it there,’” says Wright.
The end result is a game that blurs multiple lines, both in how it plays and the themes it explores. Playing Tokyo 42 is like experiencing a modern open-world shooter in the body of an old-school isometric game. Meanwhile, its take on cyberpunk calls to mind classics like Akira or Neuromancer, but with a distinct, much lighter tone and feel. That said, while Tokyo 42 plays with the themes of cyberpunk in a number of ways, there was one area where the team was sure it didn’t want to change things up.
“It has to be Tokyo,” says Strychalski. “There’s no other place for us — I can’t think of any other place that it could be.”
Tokyo 42 launches today on PC and Xbox One. A PS4 version is coming later on.
SoundCloud has released an app on Xbox One, allowing users to listen to the millions of tracks available on the streaming service. The app will work for anyone with a SoundCloud account — paid or free — and users will be able to listen to music in the background while they play a game.
An app for Windows 10 is launching in beta as well, and will be available in the Windows Store later this week. Hopefully a Mac app is also in the works — desktop apps for music services are usually an improvement over another battery-draining Chrome tab. You can download the SoundCloud app on your Xbox One today.
Lenovo’s Motorola Canada Twitter account is building the hype. Tomorrow, apparently, the company is announcing its “next bold phone.” The tweet comes with an attached GIF of a woman with ‘80s-esque hair and clothes sitting in a hair salon. I don’t know how this could possibly relate to the phone, but here’s to hoping Lenovo brings the message home tomorrow.
The announcement could involve the rumored Moto Z2 Play, which has leaked multiple times over the past few months. That phone is expected to include a smaller battery than its predecessor, the Z Play, with a 3000mAh capacity. That drop in battery life reduces the phone’s thickness, too. TechnoBuffalo leaked the below image in April:
We’ll keep you posted tomorrow on Lenovo’s announcement and whether all these Z2 Play leaks were actually accurate.
Laser projectors aren’t exactly cheap, and portable ones will cost you even more. That’s why LG’s $1,500 ProBeam laser projector is notable — it’s (relatively) cheap and can be moved without much hassle.
The 4.6-pound ProBeam, which is about the size of a football, can project up to 2,000 lumens of brightness and produce a picture as big as 120 inches at 1080p. (It’s kind of disappointing that this isn’t 4K.) The usual slate of HDMIs, audio outs, and USB ports are also included. It also comes with Bluetooth support, so you can connect your headphones or portable speakers.
The projector runs webOS as well, giving you full smart TV features for all the cord cutters out there. The LG ProBeam is available today from online retailers including Newegg and B&H.
Alexa can now remind you about appointments from yet another calendar service: iCloud. Devices including the Echo lineup and other Alexa-enabled gadgets have added support for iCloud calendars as of today. Amazon says that iCloud calendars have been a “top requested feature” from customers, which makes sense. A whole lot of iPhone and iPad users probably create one when setting up their device out of the box.
You can link your iCloud account through the settings section of Amazon’s mobile Alexa app. Once that’s done, you can ask what’s on your schedule for the day — or tell Alexa to add a new calendar entry.
With the addition of iCloud, Amazon now counts five “major” calendar services that Alexa works with. They are:
The new Core X-series chips from Intel sound very powerful and good, but there's one caveat: you'll need a new motherboard. The current standard Z270 motherboard chipset is a "consumer" product, and the new X-series processors have a different pin layout, and are designed for a slightly more demanding customer with deeper pockets.
The X299 isn't a huge upgrade over the Z270, but it's a major leap past the X99 boards, which hosted the last generation of Intel's most extreme chips. X299 chipsets support up to 24 PCIe 3.0 lanes, compared to the paltry eight PCIe 2.0 lanes on X99. Paired with the new processors, you're looking at an embarrassment of I/O — you can load a system up with multi-gigabit Ethernet, a few GPUs, and a couple of M.2 SSDs, and still have headroom to spare for your USB 3.1 daisy chain, Thunderbolt, and a handful of SATA devices.
Unfortunately, the fact that Intel is giving two fairly different CPUs (Skylake and Kaby Lake) the X-series treatment means not all X299 motherboards will be created equally. Depending on which CPU you pick, you'll have different amounts of I/O support, and different compatible RAM configurations. That means, depending on your chosen pairing, you can conceivably buy a motherboard with a lot of "features" that you can't make use of, or a CPU that's held back by the motherboard's limits.
It sounds as if the whole reason Intel is even offering the lower-end Skylake chips is to let people get a fancy new X299 motherboard now, and upgrade the CPU when budget allows. But if that's the case, anyone with a competent Z270 system on their desk right now won't probably have much of a reason to sidegrade. As Anandtech writes: "This is arguably a big mess."
Anyway, let's look at these motherboards!
Gigabyte's Auros Gaming series motherboards highlight something most of these systems have in common: some sort of M.2 cooling or monitoring to make sure your fastest SSD drives don't throttle down due to heat concerns. All three models in the series support up to three M.2 drives, which is a nice upgrade over the one or two slots you can expect on most Z270 boards. Because this series is all about gaming, Gigabyte also packed in a bunch of RGB fluff.
Asus has an absurd seven different X299 motherboards right out of the gate. The top-end ROG Rampage VI supports four-way SLI, has a 10Gb Ethernet chipset, and 802.11ad Wi-Fi. There's also a little OLED display for peeking your stats.
MSI's Gaming M7 ACK has dual Killer E2500 Ethernet controllers and Killer 1535 Wi-Fi which can all be combined into a single connection.
EVGA has an overclocking-focused board called the X299 Dark, which supports four-way SLI and also includes dedicated M.2 cooling. There's also triple BIOS support, which is amazing. EVGA also has a micro-ATX form factor board which supports two-way SLI.
ASRock managed to make a mini-ITX form factor X299 board, which still includes four memory slots and three M.2 slots, but cuts the GPU opportunities down to one. ASRock's Gaming i9 board meanwhile has 10Gb Ethernet built in.
I'm going to wait for some reviews (or at least price tags) to start rolling in before I try and choose a candidate for an X299 build. To be honest, most of the specs are probably overkill for my purposes — and I still haven't put together a Ryzen system! But it's exciting to see this much power and expandability available out of the gate for these long-awaited CPUs.
Waze is expanding its carpooling service to the entire state of California three months after it made the service available in the Bay Area, according to a report from TechCrunch. Waze Carpool will be available to all California residents on June 6th.
The service, which launched as a pilot program last year in San Fransisco, isn’t designed to compete with carpool offerings from ride-sharing services like Uber and Lyft, but to take advantage of the community that Waze has built in its app to help cut down on traffic. Drivers aren’t paid like Lyft or Uber drivers — they get paid no more than the federal mileage rate of $0.54 a mile — so this won’t become a part-time gig.
The idea seems novel, but the question is how many people outside of the tech-influenced Bay Area will be willing to pick up strangers on their route for a couple bucks? I guess we’ll find out soon enough.
I don’t consider myself a picky eater, but there are certain things I just can’t swallow. Raw celery, for example, or cilantro. Another one is ripe bananas. When bananas turn bright yellow or start having those hideous brown spots, forget it. I have to throw the whole bunch away. I can’t even stand the smell. The only time I can eat the fruit is when the peel is still greenish — at least at the tips.
Apparently, that’s not how many of my friends eat their bananas. I’ve gotten into several heated conversations about optimal ripeness level — so I decided to investigate this and call up some scientists. Is there a best time to eat a banana? Does anything in the fruit change as it ripens?
First off, let’s make clear that I’m talking only about Cavendish bananas. That’s basically the only type of banana you can find in the US — at least for now. The Cavendish is being wiped out by a disease called Tropical Race 4, and that’s because the Cavendish has basically no genetic diversity. But around the world, hundreds of banana species exist — with different shapes, tastes, and colors. Yes, red bananas exist.
Bananas are known for being packed with nutrients — particularly potassium, vitamin C, vitamin B6, and fiber. As the fruit ripens, the concentration of these nutrients does not change, says David Levitsky, a professor of nutrition and psychology at Cornell University. The only thing that does change is that the starch turns into sugar — mainly fructose and glucose. So the longer you wait, the sweeter the banana is going to taste. That doesn’t mean that eating a greener banana is healthier, because your digestive system is eventually going to turn the starch into sugar anyway, Levitsky says. So the calorie count doesn’t change.
However, eating a greener banana might have some slight added health benefits. That’s because it contains just a tiny bit more of a starch called resistant starch, which humans can’t digest but is loved by your good gut bacteria. “It’s the kind of starchy material that bacteria look to feed on,” says Nicholas Gillitt, vice president of nutrition research and director of the Dole Nutrition Institute. (Dole is one of the world’s biggest producers of fruits and veggies.)
So, if nutritional values basically don’t change as the banana ripens, why is the banana considered ripe and ready to eat when it’s bright yellow and freckled? (The Dole banana color guide says that the “full yellow” banana is the one with “great eating flavor,” while banana producer Chiquita says that “most people like their bananas when the peel is yellow or yellow with brown flecks.”) It might have to do with the eating standards that banana companies like Chiquita set before anyone in the US really knew what bananas were, says Dan Koeppel, author of Banana: The Fate of the Fruit That Changed the World.
Bananas were introduced to the United States as an import product around 1876, when they were also exhibited as an exotic fruit at the Philadelphia Centennial Exhibition. So at the turn of the century, bananas were a novel fruit and Americans didn’t know how to eat them and when, Koeppel says. “Chiquita really had to do a lot to build interest and educate people about bananas,” he says.
First off, Americans (and Europeans) had to learn that it was okay for proper ladies to eat phallic fruits, Koeppel says. In the late 1800s, postcards of nicely dressed ladies eating bananas were distributed all over. Other photos showed proper Victorian ladies cutting bananas with a knife to get rid of the embarrassing shape.
Then, Americans had to be taught about when the tropical exotic fruit is ripe and ready to eat. And for that, Chiquita made the Chiquita Banana jingle, which hit the airwaves in 1944; it was at times played 376 times a day on radio stations across the US, the Chiquita website says. Here’s how the song went:
I'm Chiquita banana and I've come to say / Bananas have to ripen in a certain way / When they are fleck'd with brown and have a golden hue / Bananas taste the best and are best for you.
And here’s a version of the song turned into a cartoon, which appeared in movie theaters across the US, says Bettina Stier Scatamachia, Chiquita’s director of marketing.
As bananas became a staple of lunch boxes, and banana bread recipes flourished, the lyrics of the Chiquita jingle changed. In 1999, the song began highlighting the nutritional benefits of bananas instead. Apparently 50 years of banana-eating had familiarized America with the fruit’s ripening stages.
The problem is, I strongly disagree with Chiquita (and not just because the company was one of the most evil corporations in the world). When bananas “are fleck'd with brown and have a golden hue” I want to throw them in the trash can. But that’s okay. The best time to eat a banana really depends on your taste. Levitsky, the nutrition professor at Cornell, wants his banana bright yellow; brown spots are okay but no mushiness. My editor Liz Lopatto thinks all bananas are garbage. And I like them greenish — sometimes so green that peeling them is hard. I think everyone should agree with me, but apparently some don’t.
“If you eat a green banana, it’s like eating a raw potato,” Koeppel says. “If you eat it uncooked, it’s not going to be that much fun for people.”
Update March 29th 1:20PM ET: The article was updated to say that Chiquita was one of the most evil corporations in the world rather than still is. On March 27th, I was contacted by Reto Zangerl, a spokesperson for Chiquita International, who told me that Chiquita "has changed and developed within the past 25 years," investing in sustainability for example. As the link to the New York Times article I provide says, the troubled history of banana production in Latin America belongs to United Fruit Company, which was the precursor to Chiquita.
Update May 31st 10:00AM ET: This article was originally published on March 25, 2017 and has been updated to include video.
Spotify released its “official” predictions for the song of the summer this morning, and, to be honest, I don’t think it’s fair that it got to pick 15 of them. Anyone can guess the song of the summer if they get 15 tries!
The songs were selected using a fascinating combination of vague-sounding scientific techniques. According to a press release, each song was chosen by “tapping the insights of its genre and trend experts, analyzing its streaming data, and considering factors such as a song’s performance on the charts, on key Spotify playlists, and how it’s performing over time.”
Spotify also “factored in buzz on social media,” so I’m not sure how we got all the way to the following list without so much as touching on the fact that Justin Bieber says bad, fake Spanish on the #1 track in the United States right now. I’m pretty sure people are just hate-listening to it.
fuck you, justin bieber. your hell is gonna be an 8th grade spanish class that you perpetually fail https://t.co/4re2TT7LHA
Anyway, after Spotify selected the 15 songs most likely to burrow their way into your skull through August, it labeled each with the summer situation that it is perfect for — with the mildly funny exception of two songs by Future and Lil Uzi Vert, which are labeled only with the information that they are rap songs. Noted!
But here’s what most of these songs are actually perfect for: being bummed out. Or, to borrow a phrase, crying in the club. Liam Payne’s debut song as a solo artist is one of the worst things I have ever heard in my life, and that is coming from someone who tried to believe in him even after he compared himself to Tyga. Working through the list, I doubt we (as a species) are capable of fathoming Niall Horan, a perfect angel of love and light and intellectual curiosity, at all, or ever will be. As such, his post-One Direction solo music will only ever hurt us a little, like sipping pure grain alcohol or staring into the sun.
“Malibu” strikes me as a song written and performed under coercion, and I don’t really want to talk about how bad Shawn Mendes is because the last time I did that I received upwards of 500 death threats on the internet. Any song featuring Alessia Cara and Khalid, the idols of a brand-new generation of teens that I am not a part of and can’t completely relate to, is only going to make me feel like I am nearing death.
In summer, we need to party while we can... while Congress is in recess. We deserve a better “club banger” than a track with Katy Perry on it, weakly dissing another pop star who also doesn’t belong in the club, and we deserve to forget that Imagine Dragons is a thing, which I mostly had until right now. We deserve true apocalypse pop or its polar opposite — the brain-pickling earnest romanticism of Carly Rae Jepsen’s latest offering — and nothing in between. If we deserve anything from Kendrick Lamar’s DAMN. it’s “FEAR” or “LOVE,” and oh my god, what is wrong with everyone who is letting Lana Del Rey’s two perfect summer singles sit in the corner gathering dust? This is no fault of Spotify’s, but 2017’s summer pop roster could really use a few heroes.

(“Bad Liar” is incredible. If the list had stopped there it would have been a great list.)
The best summer song is the one that gets pumped, whether you like it or not, out of every car window in the United States for three entire months. Spotify, to its credit, does not dare to guess which song that might be. We’ll find out soon enough.
Three weeks until summer, please hold on!
Steven Universe has emerged as one of the most important cartoons on television today — few Western animated series are equipped to handle ideas like queer identity and the brutal cost of war so gracefully. As the show’s fandom has grown, the title character has become steadily more ubiquitous, with an ever-expanding presence in children’s books, comics, and even video games. In 2015, Grumpyface Studios released the well-received Steven Universe: Attack the Light for iOS and Android. It’s a charming tie-in game — a love letter to Nintendo games like Paper Mario and The Legend of Zelda — and, as a story, it feels perfectly at home in Steven’s world.
This year, Cartoon Network and Grumpyface are releasing Steven Universe: Save the Light, a direct sequel, and the studio’s first full-fledged console release. For this effort, the team — with help from the TV series’s creator, Rebecca Sugar — aimed to build a more ambitious game set in the universe of the show, with new characters, richer gameplay mechanics, and a longer campaign that rewards diehards and series newcomers alike. More significant than that, though, is the game’s attempt to strike at the heart of Steven Universe’s driving philosophy: that our relationships with the ones we love and the things we care about make us stronger.
“This is our first console game, so right away, we knew this was gonna be a big undertaking for us,” Grumpyface director and owner Chris Graham told The Verge earlier this month. “This time, we wanted to go deeper. You’ve got the 3D world with all sorts of realms to explore. You’ve got side quests, a crafting system, character perks, upgrades, customizable teams. Really, from [the] top down, we said to ourselves, ‘This needs to be suitable for consoles, and be the biggest possible Steven Universe adventure we can imagine.’”
That much was obvious in the opening moments of the demo version we previewed earlier this month. From the beginning, it plants players in a fully realized, 3D version of Beach City, Steven’s fictional hometown. The open world isn’t as vast as, say, Hyrule in Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, but it’s easy to see that a great deal of care went into re-creating the boardwalk from the show, complete with its shops, hideaways, and the colorful supporting cast milling around. (Graham also admits that the game’s style was inspired by Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker, so the team’s love for Nintendo is as clear as ever.)
In Save The Light, Steven explores a variety of worlds on his quest to rescue the ancient light weapon he befriended in the first game. Joining Steven on his adventure are the Crystal Gems — alien warriors Garnet, Amethyst, and Pearl — along with Steven’s best friend, Connie, and his father, Greg Universe. As in the series and original game, the Gems have a variety of combat abilities, like Pearl’s spear and beam attacks, and Garnet’s magic gauntlets. Connie and Greg add even more depth to the action; Connie’s sword makes her a frontline fighter, while Greg’s guitar lets him amplify the abilities of other party members. Steven, with few offensive abilities of his own, serves as the support character, since he can heal his friends, shield them from danger, and even resurrect them if they’re defeated. Not only are these abilities useful in battle, but the developers brought some of them — like Greg’s musical talents — into the open world, too, adding platforming and puzzle-solving elements to the game.
“When we did the first game, we had all these big, ambitious ideas that we had to put into a smaller game,” Sugar says. “Now, we get to expand on everything, especially a lot of the relationship dynamics that in these small ways, sort of snuck into the first game. Like, you tell a joke that you know one of the Gems will laugh at. Who you’re trying to impress or support has gone from a kind of Easter egg to being a huge part of the gameplay.”
That relationship system is key to the game, and it’s part of what makes the adventure fit so well alongside the series it draws from. During battle, the game rewards players for defending teammates, or executing a perfect combo by having characters build up relationship points with each other. Those points build up over time, and when maxed out, they can unlock new abilities. For instance, Steven and Connie can gain the ability to fuse into Stevonnie, an “experience” who embodies the best of both characters.
Stevonnie is a walking thesis statement for the show, and the fusion’s presence is not only fun for fans, it also hammers home how important it was to the game’s creators to have Steven Universe’s emotional underpinnings influence their work. “For me,” Sugar says, “the big goal is to have everything that I get the chance to see or touch [in the game] have the feeling that the show has.”
The designers sought to establish a tighter connection with the show’s story. Since Steven Universe’s 2013 debut, the show’s lore about the Crystal Gems and the war against their Homeworld has expanded alongside Steven’s coming-of-age story. Where Attack the Light was related to that larger narrative in a fairly oblique way, Graham says this new game will connect that story with the sweep of the show’s mythology.
“[Rebecca] had a great vision for how this could fit in, and we’re so happy to be able to have our own little take on Steven Universe,” he said. “You’re gonna find out a lot of extra little things about the show from the game, I think.”
Steven Universe: Save the Light will land on the PS4 this summer and other consoles in the months ahead.

When the Chevrolet Bolt was introduced last year, it captured a sweet spot in the marketplace. With the launch of the Bolt, GM became the first carmaker to sell a fully electric car with a range of over 200 miles and a sticker price under $40,000. It won industry accolades and awards and put GM back on the map in the electric car race. GM did exactly what Tesla is still promising with its forthcoming Model 3, but unlike that car, the Bolt is available right now.
Driving a fully electric car in the present has its own set of challenges, however, even one with an extended range compared to other models like the BMW i3 or the Nissan Leaf. We spent a week driving the Bolt in upstate New York to get an idea of what it’s like to live with a fully electric car on a daily basis — and whether we’re ready to give up our gasoline-powered people movers just yet.
reMarkable was announced late last December with an ambitious goal: to serve as a digital paper device so good that it could make traditional paper notebooks obsolete. It’s been a few months since that original announcement, and earlier this month I was finally able to get some hands-on time with a prototype of the tablet to put those claims to the test.
The prototype I got to try was a seventh-generation model, with the company expecting to go through a few more rounds of hardware before the launch, which is still set for August for the first preorders from last December.
E Ink displays have gotten pretty good over the last few years, and the reMarkable’s 10.3-inch panel holds up with more established players, like Amazon’s Kindle line at 226 ppi. Although, like actual paper, it lacks a built-in backlight. Another sacrifice of the E Ink surface is a minimal amount of ghosting when erasing or opening up menus.
The most important thing the reMarkable has to nail is the actual act of writing with it. According to CEO Magnus Wanberg, a huge part of the tablet’s development involved figuring out a way to reduce latency with an E Ink display. The prototype I tested had that down to roughly 65–70 milliseconds, and the company hopes to reduce that even further to around 55 milliseconds in the final version that ships. It’s definitely one of the better pens I’ve used, although there was still some lag when I was scribbling words quickly. Spec wise, that’s still not quite up to par with solutions like Microsoft’s new Surface Pen, which boasts latency at just 21 milliseconds, or even the Apple Pencil, which is estimated at roughly 50 milliseconds. Given the nature of E Ink as a technology, however, it’s still pretty impressive.
The real standout feature to me was the feeling of writing on the tablet. The reMarkable screen isn’t made out of glass, but rather a more durable and fricative material that really does feel like writing on paper with a pen or pencil. Even the sound is a delightfully tactile scratching that mimics the experience of writing in real life. The reMarkable pen tip does wear down, however, and will need to be replaced from time to time, although the pen does cleverly conceal a spare tip hidden in the top of the pen.
The drawing app is fairly robust, with a variety of pen types and weights, the ability to zoom in and out, and support for layers. The company is also working on developing various preset templates for note taking, from a traditional college ruled notebook to a perspective grid for architectural drawings.
Along with drawing and writing, the reMarkable can display PDFs (which can be annotated) and EPUB files, both of which work well enough. All files — including drawings — are automatically backed up to the cloud and accessible from a linked Mac or Windows app. Drawings can also be shared live from a reMarkable tablet to show up on a computer screen, which is a neat feature for collaborative work.
reMarkable is planning on selling the tablet for a final price of $529. (The pen will be sold separately, at least for now, for an additional $79.) That’s expensive, no matter how you slice it, especially when compared to a fully featured iPad which costs roughly as much. For their part, Wanberg acknowledges that they're aware of where they stand in the market and aren't looking to compete directly with Apple. According to Wanberg, the reMarkable is designed for "paper people" who prefer sketching, note taking, or doodling by hand and just want a digital means to do that.
The reMarkable is certainly good at what it does, and compared to other products in this broad category, like Sony’s $700 DPT-RP1, it is a bit cheaper. But it’s still hard to see reMarkable’s paper tablet moving beyond a niche as a secondary or even tertiary device for people that price point. Still, it’s a nicely designed product that sets out what it accomplishes. If the company can find a way to get the price down, it could be a real success.
Warner Bros. and Legendary Entertainment’s Godzilla vs. Kong, slated for a May 2020 release, has just named its director, Deadline reports. Adam Wingard, best known for his critically acclaimed indie horror breakthrough You’re Next (2011), and more recently for Blair Witch (2016), a low-budget spinoff sequel to the 1999 found footage classic, will pick up his first monster movie.
Wingard also recently finished work on Netflix’s Death Note, a live-action adaptation of the popular 2003 manga series, which will stream in August. The choice echoes the studio’s hiring of Gareth Edwards, who made a name for himself with indie horror film Monsters, to direct 2014’s Godzilla. The decision hints that Legendary’s already gritty take on the monster movie will be getting even darker in installments to come.
Godzilla vs. Kong will be the fourth film in Warner Bros. / Legendary Entertainment’s monster series, following 2014’s Godzilla, this year’s Kong: Skull Island, and Godzilla: King of the Monster in 2019. An unrelated TV show called King Kong Skull Island, written by The Bye Bye Man’s Jonathan Penner and Stacy Title and produced by IM Global, is also coming soon.
Wingard has worked from scripts written by collaborator Simon Barrett on all of his best-known projects, but Godzilla vs. Kong has yet to announce a screenwriter. Legendary did announce an absurd roster of writers in March who would collaboratively storyboard the project and build out the future of the “MonsterVerse” franchise, pulling in Patrick McKay and J.D. Payne (Star Trek Beyond and Star Trek 4), Lindsey Beer (The Kingkiller Chronicles), Cat Vasko (Queen of the Air), T.S. Nowlin (Maze Runner, Pacific Rim: Uprising), Jack Paglen (Transcendence, Alien: Covenant), and J. Michael Straczynski (Babylon 5, World War Z, Sense8). As my colleague Andrew Liptak noted at the time, this practice isn’t entirely uncommon anymore: there’s a writers’ group tasked with keeping all of the Star Wars storylines in order, and, somehow, another is responsible for remembering and guiding the various plots of the Transformers franchise. You can think of it as a TV writers’ room, but for films that will make hundreds of millions of dollars no matter what.

The unlocked versions of Samsung’s Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus are available starting today at Best Buy retail stores. The S8 is $724.99 and the S8 Plus is $824.99. Both are also being sold directly by Samsung, but Best Buy is probably your fastest bet if you didn’t pre-order; quite a few stores here in New York are already stocking the unlocked devices. The unlocked Galaxy S8 is compatible with all four major networks in the US, as it offers the necessary support for both GSM and CDMA bands.
Buying the unlocked Galaxy S8 makes sense if you really hate carrier bloat, but you might be waiting a long time for software updates. Last year’s unlocked Galaxy S7 was updated at a snail’s pace compared to carrier versions of the phone, which received new software features (and Android Nougat) months before the unlocked model.
Another unlocked phone release today is the BlackBerry KeyOne, which you can purchase from either Amazon or Best Buy for $549.99. Just be careful about which model you buy, as the TCL-made BlackBerry comes in two configurations.
The one sold at Best Buy stores (and also Amazon) works on GSM networks like AT&T and T-Mobile. But if you’re on Verizon, only Amazon is carrying the model “optimized” for that network. I can’t find the Amazon listing just yet, and I’m not clear on whether that one is also compatible with GSM networks, so I’ve asked TCL for clarification. It sure would’ve made things simpler for buyers if TCL had shipped a phone that works on any network. Sprint will be adding the KeyOne to its phone portfolio at some point.
Related
The KeyOne is a solid Android smartphone — especially if a physical keyboard appeals to you. But that keyboard leads to sacrifices elsewhere. Namely, the display is smaller than what you might be used to. But it’s a reliable smartphone with excellent battery life. And that keyboard opens up a ton of personalization options.
Planning on getting either one?
Cao Fei makes artwork that is a both a physical product and a reflection of internet culture. In 2008, she built a RMB City on Second Life, featuring the avatar China Tracy, and sold the real estate to an art collector. For the short film La Town, she bought toys online and used stop animation to depict Santa Claus riding a high-speed train, influenced by an actual train crash in her native China. She made Haze and Fog in 2013, a 46-minute silent film about zombies. On a deeper level she engages with the challenges facing a rapidly changing China and how to reckon an ancient culture with an evolving technological society.
Her most recent work is the BMW Art Car #18, a carbon black M6 GT3 revealed today at the Minsheng Art Museum in Beijing. But unlike her well-known predecessors Andy Warhol and Alexander Calder, who painted early BMW art cars, Fei works in multimedia and made a video that uses augmented reality and will be accessible through an iOS app.
She spent three years conceiving the project commissioned by BMW. For her research, she spent time on the track with racecar driver Cyndi Allemann and visited a BMW factory in Tiexi, China. She is the youngest art car artist at 39, but she already has had an art career that spans two decades and includes prestigious exhibitions and a 2016 retrospective at MoMA PS1 in New York City. Her car follows the work of John Baldessari, revealed in December at Art Basel.
While she represents an emerging generation of artists, her work engages with China’s past in public and personal ways. Her father was a sculptor who adhered to the party standard in his works, according to a New York Times profile.
In the short clip featured in the film Unmanned, a young man dressed in traditional clothing is shown crossing a bridge where he encounters modern-day China as a city and industrial society. In the next scene he is sitting cross legged, wearing a VR headset, surrounded by a parking lot stacked with white cars. The set transforms into the digital realm as he channels beams of neon lights through his fingertips and the dazzling art car appears as the bass-heavy hip-hop beat fades out in the background.
The multimedia installation of her work will be on view at the BMW Experience in Shanghai along with a VR experience at Art Basel in Switzerland in June. But at the core of the work is technical engineering, speed, and 586 horsepower; in November, the Cao Fei art car will be raced at the FIA GT World Cup in Macau by BMW factory driver Augusto Farfus, who also raced the Baldessari art car earlier in the year. The art car series dates back to 1975, and it comes along at irregular intervals. Fei’s meditation on time and use of physical space suits the pressing issues of the day.
It seems like a long time since Sony unveiled its flagship XZ Premium at MWC in February, but the luxe handset is finally going on sale in the US. The XZ Premium will be available to preorder from Best Buy and Amazon for $799 on June 12th, or buy outright and unlocked on June 19th from the same retailers, plus Fry’s. Its standout features are a 5.5-inch 4K screen and camera capable of capturing slow-motion 720p, 960 fps video footage. In our first impressions earlier this year, we weren’t sure if the XZ Premium belonged in a museum (and not in a good way).
Also going on sale from Sony in June: the company’s Xperia Touch projector, which is capable of turning any surface into a touchscreen. It’ll retail for an eye-watering $1,699.99, and is available to preorder online on June 16th or buy in store exclusively at Sony’s flagship Madison Ave store in NYC. The projector is powered by Android and is supposed to be used like a digital hub for families, offering functions like Skype video chat and a shared notice board.
These are premium devices, and they follow Sony’s new strategy of focusing on the high-end of the mobile market. The company announced last week that it would be discontinuing its “premium standard” mobiles (aka midrange) to concentrate on selling pricier handsets. Sony is launching at least two more Xperia phones later this year, and one of the last of its midrange devices — the $299 Xperia XA1 — also goes on sale in June, available in stores starting on July 2nd.
Microsoft showed off a bunch of hardware at its Computex Taipei presentation today, most of which we’d seen before. One thing we’d never seen in person, however, is Harman Kardon’s Invoke — the audio company’s take on a digital assistant speaker, powered by Microsoft’s Cortana.
Unfortunately the Invoke demo unit was not turned on or plugged in, so all I can report to you is that it is indeed cylindrical and looks at least as up to the task of imprisoning an AI assistant as the Amazon Echo. It ought to sound better, too, given Harman Kardon’s audio pedigree and inclusion of three times as many woofers and drivers. The main question, of course, is how well Cortana performs in a device like this.
The Invoke is set to ship this fall for an as-yet undisclosed price.
Levitating gimcrackery is perhaps my favorite genre of Kickstarter rubbish, but in recent months I’ve grown tired of the category. All manner of airborne accessories have floated across my desk — from light bulbs and bonsai trees to clocks and speakers — and it feels like the gimmick is ready to die. But, I’d like to make one last exception for perhaps the silliest, and most enjoyable, levitating item I’ve seen to date: a floating incense holder.
It’s called the Yun, and its Kickstarter campaign is full of wildly optimistic promises about the product’s zen possibilities. Setting up this so-called “aroma spaceship” (aka balancing the base on a wobbling magnetic field) will help users “focus and concentrate in a mindful way,” say the Yun’s creators, while watching the smoke float away will relieve them from stress and assist in “[staying] focused on the present moment.” This isn’t a fancy incense holder — it’s a full meditation with all the associated health benefits.
To which I say: whatever. But this thing still looks very cool. Levitation in and of itself might have become boring, but the curling stream of incense that pours out of the base of the $115 Yun adds a new dimension of movement that — I’d guess — is very good to stare at when gazing into the middle-distance. And, who knows, while staring absentmindedly, you might find a little bit of enlightenment, too. You can check out the full Kickstarter video below:
Every year, PC gear company Thermaltake brings a bunch of custom-built gaming PCs to Computex Taipei. They can get pretty wild, but the company has seriously outdone itself this time. Witness this astonishing work of art, credited to ThermalMike:
Yes, since you ask, that is a Donkey Kong-themed PC inside a modded Tower 900 case with colored liquid coolant representing the classic arcade game's girders and ladders. Well played, ThermalMike.

Designer Pierre Buttin has taken brutalism to a new extreme with a series of redesigned mobile apps. In his latest project, titled Brutalist redesigns, Buttin renders Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and other popular apps in a brutalist style, with text-heavy layouts and flattened designs.
Buttin says he incorporated elements from Brutalist Websites, a site that highlights rugged — or “ugly” — web design. The site’s founder, Pascal Deville, defines brutalist web design by “its ruggedness and lack of concern to look comfortable or easy,” characterizing it as “a reaction by a younger generation to the lightness, optimism, and frivolity of today's web design.” The aesthetic has seen a resurgence online in recent years, leading Buttin to wonder what it may look like in the mobile sphere.
“The aim of this project is to start a conversation about what's coming UI-wise, and how it should be done,” Buttin writes on his website. “Indeed, it seems that brutalism is still loosely defined: is it more about Swiss minimalism or just raw coding?”
Buttin, whose previous digital projects have explored online multitasking and abstracted Tinder profiles, says Instagram “paved the way” for brutalist app design with the “bold” update it released last year. His rendering of the photo sharing app is identical to the current version, and others, such as WhatsApp and Amazon, don’t look drastically different. Other redesigns, such as Twitter and Candy Crush, are far more extreme.
In an email to The Verge, he points to mobile sites like Bloomberg, The Outline, and Balenciaga as a sign that brutalism is moving “from avant garde to mainstream,” and he speculates that more may follow the trend as “the public taste will evolve.” There may be other incentives for app designers, as well; as Buttin notes, some experts have suggested that text-heavy designs drive higher user engagement.
“We have seen the rise of flat design, and it seems that designers now look at pushing it to the extremes,” the Lyon-based designer tells The Verge. And although he isn’t sure whether brutalism is the future of UI design, Button hopes “that this project will keep the conversation going in the tech industry.”






As The Verge's resident headphone obsessive, I often find myself having to justify to people why they should spend more than, say, $50 for superior sound quality. I relish the challenge, and I do my best to be an ambassador for better audio equipment that may be a bit pricier. But then I look at cameras like this here Nikon Coolpix W300, which has the temerity to cost $389.95 (or €469 in Europe / £389 in Brexit-addled Britain), and my heart sinks a little. Why are people prepared to throw down the best part of $400 on a simpleton point-and-shoot?
My grievance is with the lack of symmetry. We're habituated to cameras costing a few hundred dollars, so when a reputable name like Nikon is plastered onto a new (admittedly waterproof and ruggedized) orange shell, we seem to be okay with the associated cost. Other things in our lives, such as chairs, backpacks, and yes, headphones have all seen their entry-level price reduced to ridiculous levels thanks to mass manufacturing and cutting corners on quality, and so our expectations of them have shifted (unfairly, in my opinion).
For $389, you can buy a Peak Design Everyday Backpack plus a set of field pouches and accessories and still have enough money left over for a week's worth of celebratory mocha frappuccinos. Or you can grab a NASA wallet made out of high-quality leather that might last you a decade. Or get most of the way to acquiring a Herman Miller chair. Or, should you have an extra 11 bucks, you can obtain a pair of the delightful Bowers & Wilkins P7 Wireless or the noise-cancelling Sony 1000Xs and get into the world of wireless sound in luxurious style.
Or you can spend your money on a camera that looks like this:
Please don't misread this to be an indictment of Nikon or of the class of basic point-and-shoot cameras that just do their job. I think there's obviously a space and a demand for cameras of the W300's rugged ilk, but I don't think it's at $389. Smartphones have obviated most of the applications for dedicated point-and-shoots these days, and they cost dramatically less: a little over $200 for the Moto G5 Plus, for example. Their image quality is not far behind, either, and Nikon has unfortunately never really distinguished itself through its Coolpix range, which seems almost entirely divorced from its superb DSLR lineup.
What I'm arguing is that we should weigh purchases not based on the anchoring point of the cheapest thing in their category, but on the value and quality they can provide us. I think a chair you'd spend day after day sitting on is inherently more valuable than a camera you might use on the occasional trip to the beach. And the same goes for a reliable bag or wallet, as well as for headphones, the most ubiquitous gadget that isn't a smartphone.
Amazon has received a patent for a shipping label that includes a built-in parachute, “to enable the delivery of packages by [unpiloted] aerial vehicles (UAVs) or other aerial vehicles.” The patent, as reported by GeekWire, was filed in August 2015 and granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Monday.
It is unclear whether the system will ever be put into use, though the patent may provide new insight into Amazon’s Prime Air drone delivery project. The system calls for a packaging label that would be integrated with a folded parachute and a network of cords. It could also incorporate a breakaway cover, shock absorbers, and a network of sensors built into a drone to track the package’s descent. The system could be adapted to accommodate an item’s size, and could incorporate several parachutes for heavy packages.
Amazon began trialling its drone delivery system in the UK late last year, and the company completed its first Prime Air demonstration in the US in March. Parachutes didn’t figure into either trial — the autonomous drones simply landed and released their packages — but a patent granted to Amazon in February calls for packages to be released with parachutes mid-flight. Zipline, a California-based startup, has also been using parachutes to deliver blood from drones to remote areas of Rwanda.
Amazon hopes its Prime Air network will eventually deliver packages within 30 minutes, and it has gradually accumulated patents on drone technology and infrastructure. But the company still faces regulatory hurdles in the US, where autonomous drones are still not authorized to fly under current FAA rules.



Microsoft is unveiling more of its range of Windows Mixed Reality headsets at Computex today. After revealing that Acer, ASUS, Dell, HP, and Lenovo will all create headsets, Microsoft is providing a little more detail about the Dell, Asus, and Lenovo devices today. Dell is creating a white headset, designed by the company’s XPS and Alienware teams, that will be available at an “affordable” price point this holiday. Dell’s headset includes a weight balanced headband, replaceable cushions, cable routing, and a flip-up visor.
Asus’ Windows Mixed Reality headset looks like the most unique out of all the devices announced so far. Asus has added a polygonal 3D cover panel to the front, alongside six degrees of freedom tracking. Microsoft doesn’t mention whether Asus’ headset will be available later this year, so it’s possible it might not arrive until 2018.
Lenovo is also creating its own Mixed Reality headset that Microsoft describes as “incredibly affordable” without providing exact pricing. Lenovo’s headset includes built-in sensors for inside-out tracking, and a rather basic design. Lenovo’s headset will also debut later this year, alongside others from Acer, HP, and Dell.
If you went to bed early last night, then I’m going to need you to sit down. I’ve got something to tell you. The world you wake up to is very different to the one you left. It’s a world of confusion, of uncertainty. It’s a world where words are lost and alternative truths and fake news collide.
It is, in short, the world of covfefe.
We first discovered covfefe late last night, at around midnight eastern time, when Donald Trump tweeted a reference to its arrival out of the blue.
The president’s cryptic missive remained online for several hours, before getting pulled around 6AM ET this morning. Trump’s lack of punctuation suggested that he had been whisked away before he could complete his dire warning, but terrifyingly, we still don’t know what covfefe is. Academics, scientists, politicians — none had predicted its coming, and none had warned us of what it might bring, but one thing was clear from the tone of tweet. Covfefe was bad.
With the White House’s best and brightest out of action (perhaps incapacitated as part of covfefe’s first offensive), it fell to us to make sense of the situation. Specifically, to people on Twitter, who jumped on the president’s garbled statement with gusto.
The initial wave of Twitter replies were frenzied, perhaps inspired by the very real concern that negative covfefe had impacted the United States’ constitutional democracy. Others adapted to our new future quickly, working to keep their head down and appease covfefe.
My dad just bought the CA license plate "COVFEFE." #covfefe pic.twitter.com/WT5bXDTRN3
life covfefes at you fast
This is #covfefe translated from Russian. pic.twitter.com/1Im7ZzLO0Y
But that panic was replaced by a resigned cynicism once it became clear that politics would continue as before, with or without the shadow of covfefe hanging over the nation.
Tomorrow Sean Spicer: "Good morning. Covfefe for being here today."
I'm so sorryhttps://t.co/7GvfnDYCqL pic.twitter.com/Myd6FM0nN4
Pope: What do you give him to eat?Melania: #Covfefe pic.twitter.com/R9gpJmsgl2
Trump’s old tweets keep coming back to haunt him pic.twitter.com/KFtQPKuZWT
Ooo la la, we get it, you were in Europe https://t.co/eGhkpGr97q
Hours later, we were finally able to laugh at covfefe, demonstrating once again the strength and resilience of the human spirit. Impressively speedy Photoshops — like this repurposed Contra title screen (complete with Trump and Bannon hair-a-likes) — started to populate Twitter.
pic.twitter.com/GOEBwUD4Em
literally every covfefe joke is funny we are reaching the singularity and it feels amazing
pic.twitter.com/FpE2Cnp8uk
Moderator: Your word is #covfefeArvind: Use it in sentenceModerator: Despite the constant negative press covfefeArvind: c-o-v-f-e-f-e pic.twitter.com/NNpAdoKG15
As for what covfefe actually is, we still don’t know. Some may say it’s a typo of “coverage,” and that Donald Trump was railing against his portrayal in the media again. But the sensible among you would reject that hypothesis, knowing that there would be no way that the president would be sitting up in his ludicrously opulent mansion, restless at midnight, so steamed about his popularity that he would pull out his phone and throw out a half-considered complaint tweet to his millions of followers.
And then what, you’re telling me the leader of the free world threw his phone across the room like a moody child, drew in a big sigh, and settled in for a night of dreaming about golf, oblivious to the furor his misspelled tweet caused across the world?
I don’t buy it.
Update May 31st, 6:15AM ET: The original tweet has been pulled, and followed with this surprisingly playful response:
Who can figure out the true meaning of "covfefe" ???  Enjoy!
Microsoft revealed earlier this month that HP is planning to build a Cortana-powered speaker. At Computex today, the software giant demonstrated what it described as HP’s “digital assistant.” It’s a small puck-like speaker that acts as a standalone container for the Cortana software built of Windows 10 PC. HP hasn’t provided actual hardware at Computex, but Microsoft demonstrated a “visual representation” of the device.
Luckily, after some initial confusion, Microsoft has confirmed that the speaker will operate as a standalone Cortana device, like Harman Kardon’s Invoke. Although HP appears to have created the hardware device as a companion to its range of Windows 10 PCs, it will still function as a full Cortana speaker.
“The new HP digital assistant featuring Cortana is a standalone personal assistant device that does not need to connect to a Windows 10 PC to provide a complete intelligent speaker experience. We’re excited about our partnership with HP and have nothing else to share at this time,” a Microsoft spokesperson said in a statement given to The Verge.
Microsoft only briefly showed the device on stage, but there’s no release date or pricing for HP’s digital assistant hardware quite yet.
Update 5:17PM ET, 5/31: Microsoft clarified that HP’s Cortana speaker does not have to connect to a Windows 10 PC to function. It can operate as a standalone device.
Microsoft is revealing its partners for Windows 10 ARM-powered PCs at Computex today. Asus, HP, and Lenovo will be the first PC makers to develop what are described as “mobile PCs” powered by Qualcomm’s latest Snapdragon 835 processor. Microsoft first revealed its plans to bring Windows desktop apps to mobile ARM processors last year, with laptops as the first devices in the market with a version of Windows 10 that supports ARM.
Microsoft has only managed to convince three PC makers to build these new laptops with Qualcomm’s ARM processors. Unless the software giant signs on more by the end of the year, then that’s slightly less than the number of PC makers that helped launch Windows RT nearly five years ago. The first wave of Windows RT devices included devices from Asus, Dell, Lenovo, Samsung, and Microsoft itself with the Surface RT.
Qualcomm and Microsoft still aren’t revealing exactly when these new devices from Asus, HP, and Lenovo will arrive. Qualcomm CEO Steve Mollenkopf previously revealed ARM-powered Windows 10 PCs won’t launch until Q4 this year. Both Microsoft and Qualcomm are marketing these Windows 10 PCs as having better battery life, LTE connectivity, and support for all Windows applications.
Alongside the ARM-powered PCs, Microsoft will also support LTE on other Windows 10 devices. HP, Asus, VAIO, Dell, Xiaomi, Lenovo, and Huawei will all create Windows 10 devices that support LTE. Microsoft is also working with a range of operators to support eSIM, including AT&T, T-Mobile, Vodafone, EE, Three, and BT.
Logitech’s Ultimate Ears is refreshing two of its old-but-still-popular Bluetooth speakers, the Boom 2 and MegaBoom, with fresh colors and patterns. The limited edition designs will be available starting in June. It isn’t clear how long they’ll stay in stock or when UE will retire them. You can see all the designs above, but you’ll note that the zebra and black and white “Cityscape” are definitely the most bold. The midnight garden pictured below is pretty intense, too.
I think I like the Lilac color palette best, only because it has some flair without being too much. It would look good on a shelf or in a park because pastels are great. Obviously.
Ultimate Ears says the Boom 2 will cost $199.99 while the MegaBoom will sell for $299.99. Color and pattern availability varies by country.
You’d be forgiven for thinking that Nest, the company that so wonderfully disrupted the home thermostat market back in 2011, has been in a moribund state the past couple of years. Its mobile apps haven’t changed, its product lineup has stagnated, and its most notable news of 2016 was the exit of co-founder and CEO Tony Fadell. But today the Alphabet-owned company is making a splashy return to prominence with a new "intelligent" indoor camera called the Nest Cam IQ. Bearing a similar shape and styling to Nest’s signature thermostat, the Cam IQ costs $299 (or $498 for a pair) and will begin shipping by the end of June.
I got to see it behind closed doors during this month’s Google I/O conference, where Nest’s director of product marketing Maxime Veron walked me through the new camera’s capabilities and hinted at a busy summer ahead for the company. The aim with the Cam IQ, Veron says, is nothing short of being the "best in class security camera." That starts with a focus on video quality, which is well supported with a 4K HDR image sensor, powered by a hexa-core Qualcomm CPU. The video it outputs will still be limited to 1080p, mind you, but the expanded resolution will help with zooming in on particular areas without a loss in fidelity. There’s also a night vision mode provided by two infrared LEDs, which Veron proudly notes operate at a 940nm wavelength, making them almost invisible to the human eye.
Nest has also built in a powerful speaker, a three-microphone array with noise and echo suppression, and an impressively flexible and strong pivot stand, but the hardware is really not the thing this company’s excited about. Matt Rogers, Nest’s other co-founder, is quoted in today’s press release: "When designing Nest Cam IQ, we focused on what we’ve learned from our customers, which is that people don’t want more information, they want insights." Nest’s Cam IQ sales pitch is more about the IQ than the cam, which at the most superficial level will be manifested by its future integration with both Google Home and Amazon Alexa (though, no, it can’t function as a standalone Google Home or Amazon Echo speaker).
Using some deep-learning tech from Google, the Cam IQ can accurately detect what’s moving within its field of vision — whether it’s just your pet, for instance, or a shadow cast by the changing light. If it’s something more sinister, like a person, the camera can then automatically zoom in and track that person as they move around the room. Should you opt to subscribe to the Nest Aware service ($10 per month or $100 per year), the Cam IQ will also offer a facial recognition facility that will sort between known friends or family members and any strangers, and alert you accordingly. Additionally, making use of those extra mics, Nest Aware can now also pick up audio cues for alarm, whether it be a dog barking, humans talking, or a window being smashed.
The video Nest showed me from the Cam IQ was indeed crisp and sharp and it provided much better definition of a fake burglar’s bearded face than the footage captured by an anonymous leading competitor. That’s a stage-managed demo designed to emphasize Nest’s advantage, to be sure, but I was still left with a very positive impression of the image quality obtained from what’s typically been a quite drab and unexciting category of hardware. I half-think some people could use this camera as a fallback vlogging tool. And let’s not forget about the hardware quality of this thing: it’s beautifully built, the stand articulates in every direction with a smooth, perfectly measured resistance, and there’s a USB-C power port on the back, Bluetooth LE within, and a standard tripod mount at the bottom.
With end-to-end encryption and person alerts that send you automatically zoomed in and cropped portraits of anyone detected, the Cam IQ promises to provide the security and insight that Rogers talks about. I was disappointed to find very little in the way of synergy between Nest’s prior home security cams and this one — they are, essentially, discrete products that don’t relate to one another — but Veron tells me Nest’s relative silence in recent times is about to be a thing of the past. "I am very excited about the next six months," he says with a grin, "we’ll talk again soon and you’ll understand why." If reports from earlier this month are to be believed, the next item on Nest’s agenda is likely to be a cheaper thermostat.
The Nest Cam IQ is available to preorder now in the United States, and will soon also be up for preorder in France, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Ireland for €349, as well as the UK for £299 (that price is not a typo, feel free to blame Brexit). Germany, Austria, Italy, and Spain will join the preoder ranks on June 13th, and the first Cam IQs should begin shipping by the end of the month.
Immediately after Essential CEO Andy Rubin finished up his interview with Walt Mossberg at the Code Conference, I headed to the hotel to track the phone down and see it for myself. The units on hand here are prototypes, early enough that they have their individual identification numbers etched directly on to the ceramic back in giant font. So while I can’t really say a ton about performance or the software (beyond that it’s plain Android with Google apps), I do have some thoughts on the hardware.
It is, in short, not what you might expect given the recent trend in Android phones. It’s unapologetically wide and almost blocky compared to the curved Galaxy S8 and the skinny-tall LG G6. That’s not to say it’s phablet-sized, though: the bezels are so small on the 5.7-inch screen, it doesn’t feel as massive as it could.
But Essential isn’t trying to compete directly with Samsung by creating some kind of liquid curvature on the edges of the screen. It’s a squarish phone, and that’s what it’s intended to be. The titanium rail around the phone is squared off at 90 degrees with just enough of a curved edge to keep it from biting your hand. It feels substantial without being too massive.
The back is a glossy ceramic and it feels like glass, honestly, but presumably it’s much more damage resistant. The fingerprint sensor is blessedly simple to reach compared to Samsung’s Galaxy S8, and it’s big enough that it should be an easy target.
True to Rubin’s promise, the only ports you’ll find are a USB-C port on the bottom, flanked by a single speaker grille and the microSD nano-SIM tray. Actually, that’s not entirely fair: there is one more port, namely the wireless one on the back. It works with two pogo pins that are designed simply to transfer power. To get accessories to stick you use a magnet, and to transfer data the phone utilizes wireless USB.
There are two cameras on the back, each 13 megapixels. Since this is such an early unit (and since it was far away from the hotel), I didn’t get a chance to test them. But we know that one is a regular color sensor and the other is monochrome, which allows it to take in more light and data to improve the regular color image. The two-tone flash is there, too, and all three are thankfully flush with the device.
But I know why you’re here. You’re here to read about the crazy screen that wraps around the front-facing camera. Here it is, up close:
I’ll say this about it: it’s super weird at first to have a camera sitting in the middle of the top of the screen, where you’d expect it to cover up stuff you’d need. But Android almost never puts anything in that space — it’s empty status bar up there. And Rubin said onstage that it won’t cut into movies either. In the few minutes I played around with the Essential phone, my eyes kept getting drawn to that gap... until they didn’t. I am guessing that people who see the phone will find it strange, but people who use the phone won’t mind it at all.
I can’t promise you you’ll like the Essential Phone’s hardware, but I can say this: it’s managed to have its own unique design identity even though it’s hitting on the same bezel-less, curved-screen design trends we’ve seen on other phones. It feels satisfyingly dense, which is hopefully a sign that the battery inside it is capacious enough to last through a full day.
We’ll have much more to say about the Essential Phone, the ambitious / Quixotic plan to create an ecosystem of wireless modules, and all the rest. We’ll be watching carefully to see if Rubin’s plan to keep carrier bloatware off the phone really comes to pass, too.
The good news is that we won’t have to wait especially long to find out the answers to some of those questions. Rubin implied onstage tonight that he hoped to ship the phone within the next 30 days.
Playground CEO Andy Rubin, whose new company Essential unveiled a new premium Android smartphone and Amazon Echo competitor today, says his company’s Ambient OS smart home platform will be open source. That means that Rubin, who rose to fame in the tech industry for co-founding Android, essentially wants to apply the same open-source philosophy that made Android the most dominant mobile operating system to the smart home.
Given how disparate the smart home landscape is right now, with myriad interoperability standards and wireless platforms trying to marry various devices together, Essential’s Ambient OS does have a massive opportunity here. However, the decision could also mean that the platform ends up as fragmented and splintered as Android is at the moment, leading some consumers to miss out on vital upgrades and advances.
Walt Mossberg pointed this out to Rubin onstage at Code Conference, noting that Google’s OS has forked into wildly divergent versions around the world, but Rubin countered, saying that variation was actually Android’s strength. “Nobody gets 100 percent upgrades, it’s impossible,” Rubin said, before suggesting that Apple’s purported 80 percent upgrade rate was actually closer to “60 to 70.”
Rubin did agree that Android’s upgrade rate was much lower, but said that his new venture’s Ambient OS had “a solution for that.” He stopped short of describing what that solution was, however, noting only that it was “more of a managed service on the back-end.” How exactly Ambient OS will stay open source while also keeping users up to date remains to be seen.
Playground and Essential CEO Andy Rubin announced this evening that his new company’s premium Android smartphone, the Essential Phone, will ship within the next 30 days. Rubin made the announcement onstage at Recode’s Code Conference in a conversation with Walt Mossberg, who inquired about Essential’s timeline for getting the device to consumers.
The company announced its new phone, alongside a smart home platform called Ambient OS and a new Amazon Echo competitor called Essential Home, earlier today with a splashy website launch and blog post. Essential also opened up a waiting list at the time for anyone to pick out a phone in white or black for $699 with the option of an additional 360-degree camera attachment for $50.
Even if you did register to purchase the device, you didn’t get any info on when it would actually ship. (Essential doesn’t take your credit card information just yet.) Now, however, we know that Rubin is moving about as fast from launch to ship date as the biggest smartphone players. Good news for those who want to know whether the device lives up to the hype.
Andy Rubin is currently onstage at the Code Conference presenting the new Android-powered Essential Phone and his vision for the Ambient OS and Essential Home device. Pressed by Walt Mossberg as to why he’s bringing out yet another Android phone, Rubin revealed that Essential Home and Ambient OS will have a new smart assistant, and that assistant will also run on the Essential Phone.
So that’s a new rival for Google Assistant, Siri, Alexa, and Cortana, combined with the new Essential Home device and Ambient OS which Rubin says is designed to integrate with every other smart device in your home. Rubin also says he’s willing to support all those other assistants, including Siri — which Apple probably isn’t crazy about.
Rubin is still onstage at Code, and you can read our live blog right here.
A business school in Paris will soon begin using artificial intelligence and facial analysis to determine whether students are paying attention in class. The software, called Nestor, will be used two online classes at the ESG business school beginning in September. LCA Learning, the company that created Nestor, presented the technology at an event at the United Nations in New York last week.
The idea, according to LCA founder Marcel Saucet, is to use the data that Nestor collects to improve the performance of both students and professors. The software uses students’ webcams to analyze eye movements and facial expressions and determine whether students are paying attention to a video lecture. It then formulates quizzes based on the content covered during moments of inattentiveness. Professors would also be able to identify moments when students’ attention waned, which could help to improve their teaching, Saucet says.
At first, the technology will only be used for students who watch lectures remotely, though Saucet hopes to eventually launch an in-class version that would send real-time notifications to students whenever they’re not paying attention. Speaking to journalists during a demonstration at ESG’s Paris campus last month, Saucet said the technology could vastly improve the performance of students who take massive open online courses, or MOOCs.
“The problem with MOOCs is that they don’t work,” Saucet said. “It’s been 10 years that we’ve been trying e-learning, and in the US it’s been 25 years. And it doesn’t work.”
A press release from the UN’s World Council of Peoples, which hosted last week’s event, described the launch of Nestor as the “first AI led class,” though that’s not entirely accurate. The software is not capable of actually teaching a course, and it’s not the first time that schools have experimented with similar technologies. The IE Business School in Madrid recently created a WOW Room (the acronym stands for “Window on the World”), where professors stand before a wall of screens and lecture students who tune in from afar. Like Nestor, the system uses “emotion recognition systems” to measure students’ attention.
Advocates for AI in education say the technology could be used as a digital tutor that would adapt to a student’s individual needs, and help foster more effective studying habits. Such software could also help teachers by providing quantitative feedback on the effectiveness of their teaching, advocates say. Some researchers have even raised the prospect of AI acting as a “lifelong learning companion” that would accompany students for years.
But AI programs rely on massive troves of personal data, and there are concerns over how such data would be treated. A personalized learning program launched in New York by InBloom, a data analytics company, collapsed in 2014 amid growing concerns over how data on students would be used and protected from hackers.
Saucet says Nestor won’t store any of the video footage it captures and that his company has no plans to sell any other data the software collects. (His company sells its software to schools.) The data would also be encrypted and anonymized, he says. In addition to facial recognition and analysis, the software can integrate with students’ calendars to suggest possible study times, and track their online behavior to pick up on patterns. If a student typically spends their weeknights watching YouTube videos, for example, Nestor could suggest that they instead spend that time studying. Saucet acknowledges, however, that it will ultimately be up to each school to decide how to treat and store such data.
Rose Luckin, a professor at the University College London Knowledge Lab, says AI could unlock the “black box of learning” by providing information on how and when learning happens. But she cautions against adopting new technologies that, while alluring, may not actually respond to critical needs.
“I think it can have a huge impact on education,” Luckin says. “But I think the problem at the moment is that what’s happening is being led by the technology, rather than by the learning science, and that's problematic.”
Luckin says a program like Nestor could be useful for students who take classes remotely, since “there isn’t a human there watching them,” and she says substantial research has focused on determining emotions based on facial analysis. (Several companies have begun using similar technology for advertising.) But she says she’s unaware of any large scale study on the educational effectiveness of such programs, and she questions the value in quizzing students on content that they weren’t paying attention to.
“A much more pedagogically sound approach would be to show the student when they are focused, and how that relates to their performance,” Luckin says. “So that you're offering information back to the student that helps them to structure their work time more effectively and helps them to become a more effective learner.”
And while some are concerned that AI may one day replace teachers, Luckin sees the technology more as an assistant, rather than a replacement. Saucet agrees.
“Human contact is not going to go away,” he says. “There will always be professors.”

The Nintendo Switch just got a significant third-party boost: Capcom has announced that it’ll be bringing Monster Hunter XX to the new system. Monster Hunter isn’t the most popular series in the West, but it’s been huge in Japan since the days of the PSP, and it was seen as a major coup for Nintendo when the games eschewed Sony’s PS Vita for the 3DS.
Monster Hunter XX — pronounced “double cross” — is the latest entry in the action RPG series; an expanded version of Monster Hunter X, which was released in the US in 2015 as Monster Hunter Generations. XX came out in Japan in March, and hasn’t yet been announced for the West.
速報です！『モンスターハンターダブルクロス Nintendo Switch Ver.』発売決定！モンハンシリーズ最大級の狩りごたえがNintendo Switchで楽しむことができますよ～！https://t.co/CXQuLkXAKo #MHXX #nintendoswitch pic.twitter.com/j2pdsvmOtj
On paper, the Switch is the perfect platform for Monster Hunter. It could let you play local co-op multiplayer on the go, the main reason the series took off in Japan in the first place, while also allowing for big-screen online play at home. It should also be the best-looking and best-controlling portable version of the game yet, given the Switch’s power and actual analog sticks.
That said, Capcom has revealed nothing about Monster Hunter XX: Nintendo Switch Ver. beyond the fact that it will exist at some point. There’ll be a Monster Hunter event in Sapporo, Japan this Saturday, so we should know more by the weekend.
Overwatch has been a massively popular game since it launched a year ago. That’s partly because it’s a superbly designed, tightly polished team-based shooter, but also for the incredibly diverse cast of characters that have spawned a huge culture of art, comics, fan-fiction, cosplay, ship wars, and more. Today, Tumblr’s Fandometrics blog quantified just how big the community is that has sprung up around Overwatch. And, unsurprisingly, it’s really big.
How big? According to Amanda Brennan, who runs Fandometrics, in the last 358 days, the #overwatch hashtag on Tumblr has seen “nearly 150 million engagements,” making it the second most used tag on the site. Overwatch on Tumblr, by numbers alone, is more popular than any TV series, movie, actor, character, or even far more generic tags, like #gif or #art.
Overwatch has more or less held the most popular video game rank on the site by Fandometrics’ measure for the last year, with the exception of a few weeks in summer 2016 when it was briefly toppled by Pokémon Go.
But the huge numbers of people engaging with Overwatch content speaks to the incredible work in franchise development from Blizzard. Overwatch doesn’t even have a traditional story mode or campaign to tell its characters’ stories. But based on the franchise’s supplemental material (comics, video shorts, and in-game clues), fans have embraced the heroes of Overwatch.
Part of that is due to the balance Blizzard has struck here, giving players a cast of fully fleshed-out characters to play with, but leaving things vague enough that there’s room for fans to tell their own stories.
At any rate, with the steady drip of new content that Blizzard has been doling out for Overwatch, it’s likely that the community will still continue going strong for years to come.
Earlier this month, reports surfaced that hackers stole Disney’s upcoming film Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales, threatening to release the film online if a demand for ransom wasn’t met. Speaking to Yahoo Finance, Disney CEO Bob Iger said that the company had not been hacked, and that the threat was a fake.
“To our knowledge we were not hacked,” he said when asked about the role of technology at Disney. “We had a threat of a hack of a movie being stolen. We decided to take it seriously but not react in the manner in which the person who was threatening us had required.”
Iger described cybersecurity as a “front burner issue” for the company, and that while Disney took the threat of a stolen movie seriously, it declined to pay the ransom that was demanded. At the time, an unknown party demanded “an enormous amount of money,” to be paid in Bitcoin, with the threat that the film would be released online much like Netflix’s Orange Is the New Black was back in April.

Amazon has opened two drive-up grocery stores to the public after testing the locations first with its own employees. Both are in the Seattle area, and allow Amazon Prime subscribers to place an online order and choose a two-hour pickup window for when they’d like to drive over and retrieve it.
Despite the stores being called “AmazonFresh Pickup,” a membership to the company’s home delivery grocery service isn’t required. But if you do pay for AmazonFresh (an extra $14.99 per month on top of Prime’s usual cost), your groceries will be ready within 15 minutes. Regular Prime customers have to wait at least two hours before the earliest pickup window becomes available.
AmazonFresh Pickup isn’t quite as cutting edge as the cashier-less grocery store that Amazon is still privately testing — also in Seattle. That futuristic concept has apparently run into numerous technical problems and breakdowns during its trial run and a public opening has been delayed as a result.
The grocery drive-ups are a little more straightforward and could help Amazon as it tries to better position itself against US grocery giants like Walmart, which has recently been regaining share from other chains. According to The Seattle Times, the first time you visit one of the two AmazonFresh Pickup locations, a concierge will enter your name and vehicle’s license plate number into Amazon’s systems. That way, during subsequent visits a license plate reader will automatically identify you and signal to employees that they should bring your order out to your car. The Times notes that this license plate scanning can be disabled from Amazon’s website.
Bear is a note-taking app from Italian design firm Shiny Frog that’s seen a recent spate of popularity as a replacement for apps like the bloated Evernote, primarily due to its simple design and quick speed.
And Shiny Frog has been good about keeping Bear up to date, with today’s 1.2 update (as noted by MacStories) adding some new features in the form of sketching, custom app icons for iOS, and support for Apple’s VoiceOver accessibility feature. The sketching feature is the most notable, adding a simple digital drawing board for the iOS version to add doodles and diagrams to notes. (Drawings can only be created and edited on the iOS version, not the Mac, however, and it doesn’t support the Apple Pencil’s more advanced features.)
This update is on the heels of version 1.1 released in March, which was a more substantial update, adding things like Touch Bar support, merging multiple notes, and more features for tags.
It’s nice to see the Shiny Frog team working to keep Bear updated, especially as the app runs on a subscription model for advanced features — keeping subscribers happy tends to be a good way to keep them as subscribers.
Still, there is a cautionary lesson to be aware of here in Evernote — a large part of Bear’s appeal is in its more minimal design, and the more features it adds, the closer it could resemble the bloated apps it’s trying to replace. Thankfully, it looks like we’re not there yet.
Man, Mark Zuckerberg is having a hell of a day. Earlier this morning, just before he was scheduled to deliver Harvard University’s commencement speech, his alma mater’s student newspaper website was hacked to elaborately troll the Facebook CEO. And while that got fixed by the time Zuck walked on stage, he’s now facing yet another technical difficulty: utter gibberish for captions.
Of course Zuck’s speech was going to be live streamed on his own platform, but wow, those of us watching from an office setting are getting a heck of a treat.
Facebook’s auto-caption function is… not great pic.twitter.com/U23TkkCuYG
Maybe a one-off goof? Nay.
I, too, long for a sense of purposos.
Keep rauling, rauling, rauling.
Wee!
You get the point. We’ve reached out to Facebook and a representative told us that it was Harvard University’s team that did the captioning, so you can thank / blame whatever machine or human that transcribed the speech.
And while you’re at it, you’ll definitely want to listen to the speech if you can, where Zuckerberg talks about finding a place in the working world in the face of automation, generating societal progress, creating opportunities for those less fortunate, and more.
Update May 25th 4:51PM ET: We updated to post to include Facebook’s confirmation to The Verge that it was Harvard, not Facebook, that was responsible for the typos on Zuckerberg’s speech captions.
HBO just renewed Silicon Valley for a fifth season, but one character won’t be returning. T.J. Miller, who plays Erlich Bachman, is leaving the series, according to The Hollywood Reporter. In a statement to THR, HBO called the decision a “mutual agreement.”
Neither HBO nor Miller has given any details about the reason for the departure, but as THR points out, Miller has recently started getting bigger roles that he wasn’t getting when the show started.
But as he’s gotten more famous, he’s also racked up a bit of a checkered history. When Miller hosted TechCrunch’s annual Crunchies in 2015, he made a cringeworthy racist joke and called one woman a bitch several times. Last year he was arrested for getting in a physical fight with an Uber driver.
Who knows how Mike Judge and Alec Berg will write Miller out of the script — maybe he’ll do peyote in the desert and never come back.
You will, however, be able to see him in The Emoji Movie this summer.


Sony is moving fast to create buzz for its own Marvel Universe. Deadline reports that writer-director Gina Prince-Bythewood will direct Silver & Black, the studio’s upcoming film starring classic Spider-Man characters Silver Sable and Black Cat. The decision will make Prince-Bythewood the first woman of color to direct a superhero movie, so long as the move isn’t derailed between now and the film’s release in 2018.
Prince-Bythewood is known for her character-driven work on such films as Love & Basketball and Beyond the Lights, which she both wrote and directed. She’s also already familiar with on-screen superheroes, having directed the pilot for Marvel’s upcoming series Cloak & Dagger on Freeform. She’ll now be charged with rewriting the current Silver & Black script, originally penned by Thor: The Dark World writer Christopher Yost. Silver & Black is expected to hit theaters after Sony’s Venom movie, which just got Tom Hardy for the title role.
Today’s announcement is significant, since, save for Patty Jenkins with Wonder Woman and Ryan Coogler directing Black Panther, there’s a dearth of women and people of color directing studio superhero movies. However, while this is a milestone for Sony and studio-driven superhero fare, we’ve heard similar before. A Wrinkle in Time director Ava DuVernay was initially in talks to direct Marvel’s Black Panther before passing due to creative differences. And movies change direction all the time. At a time when studios like Warner Bros. lose directing talent over and over again for their cinematic universes, there’s plenty of reason to watch what becomes of this production closely.
Samsung Display is attending Display Week (a conference on display technology, hosted by the The Society for Information Display), and it’s got some wild new screen prototypes to show off.
First up, a 9.1-inch OLED display that can roll, bend, and even stretch when pushed on before snapping back to its original position. And unlike most other flexible screens out there, which tend to only be able to be bent in one direction, Samsung’s prototype can bend in both. There’s no plans on when, or even if, a screen like this could show up on an actual product, but it’s certainly impressive.
Next up is a 1.96-inch LCD with a 3840 x 2160 4K resolution, which could one day show up in a VR or AR headset for even clearer images, without the issue of visible pixels that can occur with today’s headsets. For comparison, each screen on an Oculus rift has  a 1080 × 1200, making Samsung’s display a marked improvement, assuming it ever makes it way to market (again, there are no commercial plans for the screen at this time.)
Lastly, Samsung showcased a 5.09-inch OLED screen that offers glasses-free 3D. Given that 3D displays have largely fizzled out in the past (even Nintendo is abandoning the concept with the New 2DS XL), it’s hard to be as excited about the idea, but maybe Samsung has figured out a way to make it work.
Twelve years after Mark Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard University, the Facebook CEO was set to give a commencement speech and receive an honorary degree today in Cambridge, MA. Leading up to the event, the CEO teased a lot of footage that highlight ties to his alma mater — from clips of the moment Zuckerberg read his college acceptance letter to a Facebook Live video of him touring his old dorm room, where he reportedly created the social network.
One hacker had a different idea of welcoming him back on campus, though. Just hours before Zuckerberg was scheduled to give his commencement speech, Harvard’s student newspaper The Harvard Crimson was apparently hacked to mock the Facebook CEO with a slew of fake headlines and awkwardly edited photos. “MARK ZOINKERBURG AT IT AGAIN,” one headline reads. “OP-ED: How Come Everyone Talks About How I Stole Facebook But Nobody Talks About How I Murdered Eduardo Saverin,” says another. (Not to be missed from that story is the subheading, which adds “And fed his body to my children.”)
It’s an elaborate and, admittedly, kind of amusing display of mockery. Visiting The Crimson now returns the site back to its usual state, but the internet never forgets. You can check the Crimson bizarro world in its archived glory here.
“Earlier today, The Harvard Crimson’s website was altered by an unauthorized user,” Crimson president Derek Choi said in a statement to The Verge, claiming it was not an intentional troll from the team as a statement to Zuckerberg’s on campus presence. (Our senior editor Chris Plante notes that he’s pretty sure Choi meant to say it was altered by an unauthorized hero, but who are we to correct the kid?)
Choi adds that he regrets any inconvenience this caused readers, but honestly, it doesn’t seem like anyone here has been inconvenienced other than the Crimson team themselves. But between this and Harvard’s goof on Zuck’s Facebook Live streamed speech, it’s clear some Crimsonites have feels.
Earlier this week, Snapchat released an update that quietly changed the way profile pictures work in Snapchat — users with Bitmoji avatars are now forced to use them as the image in their Snapcodes, instead of the previous method that allowed users to have an actual picture inside the ghost-shaped frame.
It’s not a huge change on the surface, as Snapchat had previously allowed users to choose to set a Bitmoji as their profile if they wanted to, but the new change seems to automatically set it, removing your old image whether you wanted to or not. Users who haven’t created Bitmoji seem to be unaffected, and are able to continue to use the old profile pictures as usual.
A brief search of Twitter shows that users aren’t pleased with the change. There are numerous complaints about the Bitmoji Snapcodes, ranging from people who lost pictures, to confusion in telling friends apart due to the similar nature of the cartoonish Bitmoji, to the fact that it appears that there’s no way to go back to the old picture-based codes even if you unlink your Bitmoji from your account.
I do NOT want my bitmoji inside my snap code! Fuck you #Snapchat! How do I change it back to a picture of me?    pic.twitter.com/NFhzSvNrdm
Snapchat pushing Bitmoji makes sense, in a way — it bought the cartoon avatar company for over $100 million last year, so it’s logical that Snap would want to make the most of that investment by putting Bitmoji everywhere in the app. Still, given the backlash by the community, it will be interesting to see if Snapchat restores the traditional picture based Snapcodes in the future, especially as user growth continues to be a struggle for the social sharing app.
We’ve reached out to Snap for comment on the changes, and will update this post with any new developments.
Late last year, Kodak released its Ektra smartphone — a device with mediocre specs and a big ass camera bump — in the UK, and now it’s finally coming to the US. The Ektra has a vintage design and a pretty substantial 21MP camera sticking out of the back. Other than that we’re looking at midrange smartphone specs:
The Ektra isn’t actually built by Kodak, but by the UK firm Bullit which also builds rugged Cat phones. If you have an extra $400 laying around and wide pockets, you can pick up the Ektra from Kodak’s website today, as well as online retailers like Amazon and B&H.
Silicon Valley is currently airing its fourth season, but HBO announced today that it is renewing Mike Judge and Alec Berg’s tech comedy for a fifth season.
This season of Silicon Valley has seen Richard Hendriks walk away from Pied Piper’s video chat app for a plan to change the nature of the internet, with this season skewering everything from tech executive’s desire to live forever, the realities of artificial intelligence, to privacy policies.
When the show does return, it’ll do so without one of its main characters, T.J. Miller’s Erlich Bachman, according to Vulture. Bachman owns the tech incubator that the show’s characters use, and it’ll be interesting to see how they move on without him. HBO explained that the decision for Miller to depart the show was a mutual one.
The network also announced that it has renewed Veep for its seventh season. Both shows are set to return in 2018.
Updated to include information about T.J. Miller’s departure.
For the first time, scientists have discovered a fish capable of cloning itself. The trickster in question is a small Portuguese fish that managed to steal an egg to do the deed.
While studying the reproductive habits of the Squalius alburnoides, researchers found a single fish (out of 261) that is a perfect genetic copy of its father. S. alburnoides is itself a hybrid of two fish, one of which is now extinct. The results are described in a study published today in Royal Society Open Science.
This is an example of androgenesis, or males reproducing without females. Females reproducing without males, called parthenogenesis, is more common — just look at this terrifying sawfish that managed to do it. For a long time, we thought androgenesis was impossible. It turns out that there are some ants and clams that can do it, but this fish is the most complex animal yet, and the first with vertebrae.
Because the process is so rare, we’re still not really sure how androgenesis happens. It might go something like his: the male produces sperm with twice the amount of genetic content as usual. Then it steals an egg, and somehow eliminates the egg’s genes. Or maybe the sperm is normal, but the genetic material in the egg is missing from the beginning. Or maybe two sperms fertilized an egg with missing genes.
There’s a reason this type of reproduction is uncommon: when you clone yourself, you reduce genetic variation — and that’s risky. If all the animals in a species are genetically very similar, the entire species is vulnerable to being wiped out if something big changes in their environment.
“In a lot of these cases, these bizarre types of reproduction seem to have arisen by two closely related species hybridizing at some point in their evolutionary history and something going really, really wrong with reproduction,” University of Edinburgh evolutionary biologist Laura Ross told The Scientist.
So, maybe this is not the happiest evolutionary origin story, but it is pretty cool that there’s one more animal that can reproduce all on its own.
NASA’s Juno spacecraft has been orbiting Jupiter for nearly a year now — and the space probe is revealing the gas giant to be more complex and surprising than we ever thought.
Juno’s instruments show that massive cyclones dominate the planet’s poles, while a deep tropical band of ammonia circles its equator. Meanwhile, the planet’s magnetic field is turning out to be much stronger than expected and the gravity field is indicating that Jupiter’s interior core may not be super dense. All these findings, published in two new studies today in Science, as well as 44 in the journal Geophysical Research Letters, will eventually help planetary scientists piece together the structure of Jupiter. And that could tell us a lot about how the planet formed billions of years ago.
These new tantalizing clues about Jupiter were gathered by Juno during the its first couple of passes by the planet. Right now, Juno is in an extremely elliptical orbit, which brings the probe screeching by Jupiter’s surface for a few hours at a time during each trip around the planet. These passes, known as Perijove passes, bring Juno over the planet’s poles — closer than any previous vehicle has gone before. And it’s during these swings by Jupiter that Juno gathers the bulk of its data.
Currently Juno does one Perijove pass every 53 days, though the original plan was one pass every 14 days. (Engine problems messed up the plan, so Juno is going to remain in its much longer orbit for the rest of its lifetime.) That just means it’s going to take longer to get answers about Jupiter than the mission team wanted. And the researchers are hesitant to make conclusions about Jupiter’s origins until the probe has passed by the planet a few more times.
“Juno is a mapping mission; we’re going to go over the planet 32 different times and each time at different longitudes,” Scott Bolton, of the Southwest Research Institute in San Antonio, Texas, and the principal investigator for NASA’s Juno mission, tells The Verge. “So we don’t want to make too many assumptions just yet. We need to finish that map.” However, Bolton is confident that the NASA spacecraft will be able to deliver some solid answers about Jupiter after a while. “Juno is the right tool to sort this out,” he says.
So here’s what Juno has found out so far about the largest planet in our Solar System:
During its first pass around Jupiter, Juno’s camera spotted immense storms and cyclones at the planet’s poles. The vehicle captured one giant storm right over the terminator — the moving line that separates day from night on a planet. That created shadows that allowed the mission team to calculate exactly where the storm sat, finding that it was actually sticking up out of the atmosphere. And this storm was massive, too, reaching 30 to 60 miles high with a diameter about half the width of Earth.
These cyclones make Jupiter’s poles a fairly unique place. Neither pole has the same number of storms or configurations, according to Bolton, and they look very different from the poles of Saturn. “When you get over the poles, it’s a very different looking planet,” he says. “I’m not sure you’d even recognize it as Jupiter if you didn’t know.”
Juno is specifically equipped with instruments that — for the first time — can peak underneath Jupiter’s cloud tops, to figure out the composition of the planet below. Measurements have revealed a super-deep band of ammonia around the planet’s equator — and it goes as deep into the planet as the spacecraft can see.
Bolton compares the ammonia band to the tropical band around Earth — the region around the equator that has its own distinct climate. “Earth’s band is driven by the fact that there’s a surface and ocean underneath, but Jupiter is all gas and yet we see the same kind of feature,” he says. And the ammonia isn’t just found at the equator either. Bolton says the concentration of ammonia is highly variable throughout Jupiter, making the planet’s composition incredibly diverse.
“The naive simple view of giant planets is that as soon as you scratched beneath the surface where the sunlight was no longer getting to, then everything would just be this boring well-mixed sphere of gas that all looked the same,” says Bolton. “And Jupiter is anything but that; it’s very complicated.”
A big goal of Juno has been to figure out if the planet has a compact core or not. So Juno has been mapping Jupiter’s gravity field to determine the distribution of materials inside the planet. And those measurements seem to indicate that Jupiter doesn’t have a smaller compact core like people expected, but instead the core is larger and more spread out. There’s also some indication that various regions of the core may be moving in different directions. “It may not be moving around like it’s one solid body,” says Bolton.
Juno is also measuring Jupiter’s magnetic field, a charged current that surrounds the planet and deflects or captures particles coming from the Sun. In June, before Juno inserted itself into orbit, the spacecraft crossed through the boundary of the magnetic field — known as the bow shock. It was the only time that Juno ever encountered the bow shock, and that seems to suggest that the magnetic field was expanding when Juno encountered it.
Now that the spacecraft has been hanging out at Jupiter, it’s been taking measurements of the field from within. And one thing that Juno has noticed is that the closer it gets to Jupiter, the more variation it finds in the strength of the magnetic field. “When we get really close to the planet, we’re getting much higher highs and much lower lows than we would have anticipated based on our current knowledge,” Jack Connerney, an astrophysicist at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center and lead author on one of the Science papers, tells The Verge. And that provides some clues as to where inside the planet the magnetic field is being generated.
Earth’s magnetic field is thought to stem from the core. On our planet, hot liquid iron is constantly moving in the core, and this process — known as a dynamo — generates Earth’s massive magnetic field. Connerney says the closer you get to the dynamo’s movement, the more variation in the magnetic field you can see. From the surface of Earth, you don’t see much variation, though, because the dynamo is all the way down in the center of the planet. But since there seems to be a lot of variation near the surface of Jupiter, perhaps the planet’s isn’t super deep within the planet’s core. “The indication might be the dynamo core’s surface is much closer to the top than we had anticipated,” says Connerney.
During Juno’s trips over the poles, the spacecraft passes through one of the most stunning phenomena on Jupiter — its aurorae. The planet’s vivid aurorae are created when high-energy particles trapped in the magnetic field filter down to the poles and smash into the gas there.
Or at least that’s what everyone thought was happening. Connerney says Juno’s measurements indicate something else: it seems that the aurorae may be caused by high-energy electrons being sucked up out of the atmosphere. “What we’re find out is, guess what? Those electrons aren’t coming down; they’re going up,” says Connerney. “So it turned out our thinking was 180 degrees wrong, because we were never there to measure this stuff.”
Facebook announced today that it’s making its Instant Articles platform compatible with competing web publishing standards like Google AMP and Apple News. That way, publishers can build first in Instant Articles and then push near-identical versions of their content to other platforms.
This might help cut down on news organizations’ distribution costs, but it’s also a big deal for the tech industry’s platform wars. Because this announcement doubles as a tacit admission from Facebook that its Instant Articles format is not as popular as other forms of platform publishing, as well as a move to undermine the success of Google AMP and Apple News by incentivizing publishers to create one version of a thing and push it out everywhere. If Facebook can ensure that everyone publishes equally to all platforms, it won’t have to worry about Google or Apple gaining an edge.
“The SDK already enables developers to easily integrate publishing Instant Articles into their content management systems. By supporting a gateway to generate content across platforms, we’re also making it easy for publishers to apply some of the custom styling templates in AMP and Apple News that they have created in the Instant Articles Style Editor,” explains Facebook’s Piyush Mangalick, a partner engineering director, in a blog post. “For example the custom formats, like fonts, colors and captions, that publishers have designed in the Style Editor, will be closely mirrored in the other formats.”
In other words: if you build once on Instant Articles, you won’t have to worry about stylizing the article for AMP or Apple News. Facebook’s SDK will take care of all the heavy lifting. “This new flexibility with Instant Articles is part of our commitment to open standards of collaboration with the community,” writes Mangalick. “Our goal is to give publishers control over extending and modifying the Instant Articles building blocks to be the best storytellers on every platform.”
Of course, that’s not the only goal Facebook has. Like so many aspects of the media business over the last three decades, the future of web publishing is currently being decided not by journalism organizations, but by the platform-owning tech companies that collect and distribute the world’s information. More recently, this has manifested itself in a standards battle currently being waged by Facebook, Google, and Apple, all of which own a proprietary format that transforms articles into clean, readable formats on mobile.
Related
Facebook’s Instant Articles, launched back in 2015, has struggled to grow, while Google’s AMP format has engulfed huge swaths of the mobile web. Apple News, meanwhile, takes advantage of its high-priority placement on iOS devices as a native app to push the iPhone maker’s own walled-garden approach to news delivery. For Facebook, this is mostly an issue of the ever-constant identity crisis pulling it between its dominant social network and platform roots and the ways in which it continues to resemble a modern media empire. Some publishers have fled Instant Articles mostly because of Facebook’s own inability to help those organizations grow audiences and make money, both goals that happen to be at ends with Facebook’s constant News Feed tweaking and prioritization of video over text.
While the ramifications for news organizations are monumental, this is also a ontological debate about the very nature and future of the web. Google, which makes a vast majority of its revenue through web advertising, wants people to continue using its search engine. So it’s continued making the Chrome and search experience more reader-friendly with AMP.  Facebook would very much like people to consider its app a modern-day gateway to the rest of the internet, a destination for consuming anything and everything you would otherwise have to seek out on the mobile web. And Apple doesn’t care about the future of the web so much as it’s interested in making the iOS the best way to do anything on a smartphone, news reading included. All of this means controlling the flow of content, a huge chunk of which is article links to news websites.
So the question now is whether Facebook’s changes will make publishers come back to its platform, even as it strikes deals with media companies to produce original video that it will likely prioritize over the Instant Article links of third-party news publishers. As it stands, Facebook’s only option now is to hope publishers are so wary of any one tech platform that they publish to all of them simultaneously. While that’s not necessarily great for building a healthy relationship with the journalism business, it does keep Instant Articles from completely ceding ground to competitors.
Andy Rubin is preparing to formally unveil the smartphone his new company, Essential, has been working on. Moments ago, Essential tweeted that “something big is coming” on May 30th, with Rubin himself adding that he and the team are “almost ready to share with you what we've been up to.” Rubin is scheduled to speak at Recode’s Code Conference on that date.
Two months ago, Rubin offered a teaser glimpse of the phone, which has extremely minimal bezels and a display with curved corners — similar to the Samsung Galaxy S8 and LG G6. Eric Schmidt later confirmed that the device runs Android software. Today’s tweet from Rubin, a co-founder of Android, was geotagged from Cupertino, California — the home of Apple — despite Essential’s offices being in Palo Alto, per the company’s Twitter bio.
Hi, welcome to our Twitter page. We're here to let you know something big is coming May 30th! Stay tuned...
In January, Bloomberg reported that the design of at least one device prototype from Essential featured metal sides and a ceramic back; the company was also said to be developing “a proprietary connector that serves double duty for charging the battery and expanding the phone's functionality over time.” Few companies aside from Motorola have stuck with the concept of a modular smartphone. Recently, Rubin has also tweeted other previews of what Essential is working on. The below image seems to show testing of a 360-degree camera.
Can anyone guess what my colleague Wei is working on?  First correct guess wins a signed version of the product when it's ready! pic.twitter.com/RjGLczdCgV
Essential just about confirmed a 360-degree camera for its coming smartphone in a later tweet on Thursday. When that image is manipulated, it reveals what looks very much like a lens.
Andy Rubin's Essential phone looks like it has some sort of rounded attachment for AR .. or a 360 camera? I lightened the image. pic.twitter.com/vWsr0lSqEG
Essential’s Twitter page doesn’t yet offer any other new details; its cover image reuses the same photo that Rubin has already shared. The profile picture confirms the company’s logo that The Verge previously discovered to be registered with the US Patent and Trademark Office, however. The @essential Twitter handle previously belonged to a fragrances business before being scooped up by Rubin and his colleagues.
Lyft is rolling out black car service, under the name Lyft Lux and Lux SUV, starting today in New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco, and San Jose. The service will directly compete with Uber Black, which offers riders the option of requesting a ride in a luxury, black vehicle with leather or leather-like seats. This could include a BMW 5 Series, a Cadillac Escalade, or a Lincoln Navigator, for example. The only differentiator between Lux and Lux SUV is that SUV vehicles can fit at least six passengers.
The company gave drivers a heads up on this service, and even listed the launch cities on its Help page, but didn’t actually begin rolling Lux out until today. Last year, it introduced Lyft Premier to compete with Uber Select. Both ride-sharing services offer pick-ups in luxury cars (that aren’t necessarily painted black) for a higher fee. Drivers who own these cars can drive both regular and luxury passengers.
With the launch of both of these higher-end services, it’s obvious Lyft is trying to match Uber. Right now, the main differentiator between the two companies, as far as the types of rides they offer, is UberWav for wheelchair-accessible vehicles and UberXL for more affordable SUVs. Lyft offers wheelchair-accessible vehicles but they often need to be booked 24 hours in advance.
Tons of electronics stores have shuttered over the past decade, but few are as tragic as RadioShack, which filed for bankruptcy in 2015, appeared to be rescued by Sprint in agreement to co-share the stores, then got kicked to the curb and had to file for a second bankruptcy this past March. The new agreement means hundreds of RadioShack shops will officially close down and be replaced by Sprint stores, fizzling out dreams of the Maker movement.
So while this is an end to another chapter of our American electronics retail culture, we do have to wonder: how are the folks at RadioShack doing? I mean, it seems like they were accepting their fate...
Opening a new business, need a new glass display case?? Well we got you! Everything is for sale... pic.twitter.com/LN6LwjTNdr
Racks on racks on racks....Everything is for sale at your local #radioshack!! Come down for our last days!! pic.twitter.com/pxihDctLK5
Double exclamation marks, eh? RadioShack, I’m pretty good at disguising sadness with perkiness, too, and I see right through you.
The sale on leftover stocks of electronics also appears to have come and gone, with only mostly store fixtures, ladders, and carpet tiles seemingly left on offer.
These metal literature racks for pegboards are a great way to organize reading material. Everything is on sale at your local #radioshack! pic.twitter.com/pBZR9Rwtki
Check out these neat little display organizers! Buy a few or make a bulk offer! Offers vary by location. https://t.co/WEnRMIYF77 pic.twitter.com/EEyPYUfO87
RadioShack did not answer on whether it had other kinds of useful tools left for sale.
@RadioShack Do you have any used toilet plungers?
Hey, we’re sad to see you go as a result of the new internet shopping era, too. But this seems like a public cry for attention. RadioShack, if you’re listening, we’ll miss you, we will! But do you really want your last moments to be remembered as the folks who thirstily promoted garbage cans to stay alive?
Everything is for #sale at #radioshack! Talk to your store manager for offers and pricing on our supplies! https://t.co/WEnRMIH3Ix pic.twitter.com/IR8kUn7Mi0
In a letter sent today, several people who had their personal information used to post fake anti-net neutrality comments asked the FCC to investigate.
“Whoever is behind this stole our names and addresses, publicly exposed our private information without our permission, and used our identities to file a political statement we did not sign onto,” the people write in the letter, which was sent to FCC chairman Ajit Pai by pro-net neutrality regulation group Fight For the Future and signed by 14 people who say their identities were used for comments. “Hundreds of thousands of other Americans may have been victimized too.”
The letter calls on the FCC to investigate the incident for violations of law, to remove the comments, and to publicly release any information it has on the comments.
“All proper authorities must be notified immediately and the FCC must disclose any and all information the agency has pertaining to the organization or person behind these fake comments,” the letter concludes.
Earlier this month, as John Oliver rallied viewers to send comments to the FCC opposing a proposed rollback on net neutrality rules, hundreds of thousands of identical anti-net neutrality comments appeared. The message supported the proposed rollback of Title II regulation, and included real names and addresses. When contacted, many people whose names were used said they had no idea where the comments came from.
The text of the comment came from a conservative group, which denied sending the comments. It’s still unclear who may have posted them.
Instagram has a minor update to its Direct messaging feature today, adding the ability to send links directly in the app — something that apparently was not possible before, which is a bit baffling to me. Instagram also is adding automatic links to phone numbers and addresses send through Direct, which is useful.
Additionally, the update adds support for both landscape and portrait pictures sent through Direct. So, instead of weirdly cropping your pictures, they’ll now show up properly in their intended dimensions.
The links should be available to both iOS and Android users today; the portrait / landscape support will also be available today on iOS, with Android support for that feature “coming soon.”
For those of us who’ve wondered how The Pokémon Company International feels about the universally maligned creature Magikarp, we have our answer. The company released a new mobile game for iOS and Google Play called Magikarp Jump: a game where you can only raise and compete with what it calls “the weakest Pokémon ever.”
In Magikarp Jump, you fish out a fresh ‘karp and adopt it as your own tiny jumper. The goal is to feed and train it enough to make it strong enough to best other Magikarp in a flopping competition.
It’s straightforward, to say the least. Swipe your finger around Magikarp’s pond to help it find food. The more it eats, the faster it levels up. (Same!) You can also train Magikarp through various jump-related activities. These require points, but you can recharge them either by waiting, gaining more in-game, or using items you buy. Once you’ve trained your dead-eyed fish, you take it to compete in the aforementioned jumping matches, wherein you command it to jump once. And it does.
The game is far less complicated than Niantic’s Pokémon Go, an augmented reality game that became a worldwide phenomenon and helped to double Nintendo’s value in mid-2016; Magikarp Jump doesn’t require players to move any more than their thumbs, and it doesn’t need an internet connection. The game features cameos from other pokémon — there’s a Pikachu that likes to hang by my pond and cheer me on — but it places the focus front and center on training the best Magikarp you can. Once you’ve maxed its potential, it’s time to catch a new one and start again (albeit with a slightly stronger newbie).
Though it limits you to the series’s most “useless” pokémon, this little game nails what makes the franchise great. Pokémon is about forming a bond with your weird monsters and then claiming victory. Magikarp Jump, despite centering on a pokémon that most view as a punchline, does a great job in fostering a sense of affection for the fish you’re raising. The more I watch my Magikarp bash its face into a punching bag, the more I love that little idiot. It’s doing the best it can. And when it jumps its way to victory, I feel proud. Genuinely.


This is a safe space, okay? We’re going to talk about a $12,000 hourglass designed by Apple designer Marc Newson in this post, and I won’t judge you if you want it. But let me be straight up about my feelings: this thing is ridiculously expensive, and I don’t “get” it. I’m also a little lowbrow. As I mentioned, Newson created an Hourglass for Hodinkee that costs $12,000. Only 100 are being made. Each is custom created in a glass factory. The hourglass is filled with 1,249,996 “nanoballs” that are 0.66mm in diameter and made of solid stainless steel coated in copper. The hourglass times 10 minutes.
Hodinkee posted a long explainer on what goes into this timepiece to basically justify its cost. Apparently the hole that the nanoballs fall through has to be so precise that only a human eye can get the job done. A measurement device would harm the glass, according to Hodinkee. I’m not a glassmaker, so I have no idea if this is legitimate, but sure. As for the nanoballs, I’ll let Hodinkee tell you about them:
The combination of watching those first few nanoballs bounce around the bottom chamber, the flow begin to change surface patterns in the top chamber, and the unique sound of the nanoballs flying around, hitting the glass and one another as they settle at the bottom, is utterly mesmerizing.
Flying nanoballs, huh? You can hear them here:
Now, if you want to order one, and you aren’t one of the first six people to place your order, you’ll have to put down a nonrefundable $6,000 deposit and wait a few months before yours arrives. Four more will be available in June and then 10 will be produced for each month after until 100 total are made. Is Newson’s name enough to make you drop $12,000? Probably not, but I will say that graduation season is upon us and nothing screams congratulations like an extremely expensive timepiece. And nothing is more calming than the sound of falling nanoballs, I’m sure.
Ancient farmers and hunter-gatherers living thousands of years ago in today’s Romania had sex, according to a new study. The finding adds to our understanding of how different groups of ancient humans interacted with each other — painting a more nuanced picture of how farming spread across Europe.
Researchers analyzed the ancient DNA of three individuals dated to over 8,000 years ago, as well as one individual dated to 5,000 years ago — all found in Romania. The DNA of the more recent specimen showed that farmers and hunter-gatherers in this area of Europe were intermixing with each other and having children. The study was published today in the journal Current Biology.
The advent of farming is one of the most revolutionary advances in human history. People began domesticating plants and animals, forever changing the world around them. Farming is believed to have started around 10,000 years ago in the Near East, an area roughly comprising today’s Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, and Turkey. From there, it spread across Europe — but when and how exactly people gave up hunting and gathering for farming has been at the center of long-standing debates.
Did farmers just spread across Europe, bringing the technology with them, and outcompete local hunter-gatherers? Or did hunter-gatherers get in contact with farmers, learn their technological advances, and switch to farming? Recent research shows that the answer is complicated, and how farming spread differs from place to place. Studies suggest that in Western and Central Europe, farmers from Anatolia (the Asian portion of Turkey) came in and replaced hunter-gatherer populations. But in the Baltic region, local hunter-gatherers seem to have just adopted farming, without being overtaken by farmers.
In the area comprising today’s Romania, however, the transition to farming seems to have been more nuanced. Archaeological evidence — such as artifacts, burial grounds, and diets — suggests that in this area, farmers and hunter-gatherers mixed, says Eppie Jones, a researcher from the University of Cambridge and co-author of today’s study. This is why the researchers were interested in analyzing the genetic data of the ancient people living in this area: they wanted to test whether this “cultural” exchange also resulted in people actually mixing with each other.
So the researchers took the bones of four individuals from Romania — three dated to over 8,000 years ago, and one dated to 5,300 years ago. They analyzed the petrous bones — the hard part of the skull behind the ear that “preserves DNA best,” says study co-author Michael Hofreiter, a professor of evolutionary adaptive genomics at the University of Potsdam in Germany. The genetic analysis showed that three individuals from over 8,000 years ago were all hunter-gatherers. (The researchers also analyzed the bones of two hunter-gatherers from Spain, dated to about 9,000 and 7,000 years ago, to have a better sampling of what hunter-gatherers across Europe looked like genetically.)
The individual dated to 5,300 years ago, however, turned up to be genetically about 60 percent hunter-gatherer and 40 percent Anatolian farmer. “It’s really mixed between the two populations,” Hofreiter says. That means that this person was the multigenerational child of hunter-gatherers and farmers mixing together. In short, in this area of Europe, hunter-gatherers and farmers weren’t just trading objects or swapping ideas, they were actually having sex.
“It’s the first time we can really show that hunter-gatherers and farmers really mixed,” Hofreiter says. “There was no positive evidence before.” The finding shows that, when it comes to the spread of farming across Europe, “actually the situation is very variable,” says study co-author Clive Bonsall, a professor of early prehistory at the University of Edinburgh.
A lot of questions remain unanswered. For example, does the fact that hunter-gatherers and farmers had sex mean they actually lived together? Was this mixing friendly, or aggressive? Was it constricted to this particular region, or part of a larger phenomenon? We can’t tell, says Jones.
To answer these questions — as well as why farming spread so differently in different parts of Europe — we need to analyze more specimens. But for now, today’s finding is already pretty neat: “I think it changes our understanding of the history of Europeans,” Jones says.
Praise for the works of Fumito Ueda — the iconic director behind games like Ico, Shadow of the Colossus, and The Last Guardian — tends to lean on the same handful of descriptors. Ueda’s games are solemn and sad, sweet and surreal. They’re among the few experiences in games that can “make you cry.” Ueda’s work is often described as frustrating, rigid, and technically flawed.
Rime, which comes out tomorrow from Spanish studio Tequila Works, feels like an attempt to create a game that captures all of the positive components of an Ueda game while stripping away their recurring negatives. Virtually everything about the game calls to mind the auteur’s work, whether it’s the quiet, helpless protagonist; the ancient, mysterious world; or the subtle, at times heart-scrunching, story that holds the project together. But Rime is also a much more polished experience than its obvious inspirations. There are no setbacks, like being stuck on an obtuse puzzle, or fighting against the controls to navigate a perilous series of jumps.
Rime is a near-perfect facsimile. And yet, for all its beauty and wonder and technical craft, Rime also struggles to be more than an homage.
The game opens with a young child washing up on the beach of a picturesque island. Crumbling, ancient buildings line the background, and tall beams of light across the land launch into the sky like heavenly skyscrapers. Rime is part of an increasing number of games that use the environment, rather than words or complex user-interfaces, to communicate the story and the mission; from the moment you set foot on the island, it’s the world around you that reveals where to go and what to do.
You have only a few skills at your disposal. The child protagonist can’t jump very high or carry anything other than a handful of small objects. Instead of an attack, you have the option to call out, which serves different functions, depending on the circumstances. But this small array of abilities are put to use in a large variety of ways. At the beginning, the puzzles are fairly simple. As I journeyed to the columns of light, I had to scramble up broken bits of architecture, and distract wild pigs with pieces of fruit. Later on I was able to activate magical objects by humming a tune.
As you open new areas of the island, things become more complex. You come across strange mechanical structures that can bend light or alter the time of day, and several large, scalable towers. But even as the game’s complexity escalates, the tasks remain intuitive. I rarely found myself struggling to figure out what to do. On the rare occasion I was stuck, I took a moment to scan my surroundings. A climbable ledge, or a hidden pool of water: something would be nearby, helping me to proceed.
Rime makes excellent use of color and composition to communicate these things to you in a way that feels subtle and natural. It rarely felt like the game was explicitly telling me something; instead, I’d spot the green glow of a magical object in the distance, or the shiny gold of an interactive machine. The one exception is a ghost-like fox creature that serves as a sort of guide, occasionally revealing a path or standing near an area and yapping to draw attention. The game uses these techniques to push you forward.
For all of its moments of beauty and discovery, it’s also hard not to feel a sense of déjà vu while visiting the world of Rime. So much of the experience borrows from past games from Ueda and his team, particularly The Last Guardian. Sometimes it’s big things, like the uncannily familiar architecture, or the structure of the puzzles, which feature a similar blend of platforming and sliding boxes. Other times it’s the smaller details: whenever I heard the weak cry from the young child lead, I couldn’t help but think back to my time with the similar-looking boy from The Last Guardian. Rime isn’t, and couldn’t be, a direct rip-off; both games went through a lengthy development, and The Last Guardian just came out in December. But Rime clearly resembles many of the teases of The Last Guardian that were released over the years.
Rime often benefits from these comparisons. In a lot of ways it’s a much more digestible experience, as it doesn’t have near the level of frustration that plagued The Last Guardian. It doesn’t punish you for failure and it does a remarkable job at keeping you from getting lost or stuck. It’s also a comparatively brief game — it took me around seven hours to complete — that doesn’t overstay its welcome. Rime’s world often feels more diverse and complex than its inspirations, and it also adds its own important elements, with better-designed puzzles, a lush, colorful art style, and a story that proves itself to be powerful and poignant by the end.
But part of what makes a game like The Last Guardian so memorable is that it feels like nothing else — which is why many players can forgive its more obvious flaws. By its very nature Rime can’t have that same sense of wonder or mystery. It’s a very good, very beautiful game filled with moments of revelation and heartbreak, but it’s also largely a game you can’t help but sense you’ve played before.
Rime launches May 26th on PS4, Xbox One, and PC. A Nintendo Switch version if coming at a later, currently unannounced date.
Computex doesn’t start until this weekend, but Acer decided to get a head start and release a couple laptops and tablets today. The company announced two new laptops: the Nitro 5, designed for casual gaming; and the Spin 1, an ultra-light convertible laptop that comes in at less than three pounds.
Acer is also releasing two new Iconia tablets with the One 10 and Tab 10. The One 10 comes with dual Micro USB ports for easy connectivity with external components, while the Tab 10 comes with a Quantam Dot display and four speakers. Both tablets feature MediaTek quad-core processors, run on Android 7.0, and will last eight hours, according to Acer.
While no release information has been given on the tablets, the Spin 1 will be available for $329 / €399 July. The Nitro 5 will be available in the US and China in July for $799 / ¥5,499, before a wider release in August.
Last year, Hao Jingfang, author of Folding Beijing, became the first Chinese woman to win a Hugo Award. By day, she’s an economics researcher for the China Development Research Foundation. (She holds her PhD in economics, on top of a degree in astrophysics.) She’s also a spokesperson for Audi in China. The company recently put together an ad featuring the author, in which she talks about wealth inequality, the importance of imagination, and her love of writing.
The ad feels a bit like the series of adverts that Matthew McConaughey did for Lincoln in 2014, that used a bit of existentialism to sell cars. (It doesn’t hurt that the ad is set to a track from Interstellar’s soundtrack.)
Hao also recently appeared in an Audi commercial alongside campion Ma Long, the world’s top-ranking International Table Tennis champion, and Cheng Congfu, the first Chinese race driver to complete the Le Mans 24-hour race.
Hao’s appearance in a commercial for a luxury car brand is fascinating for a number of reasons: it’s notable that a sci-fi writer is performing an advertising role in China similar to one a Hollywood megastar plays in the states. But perhaps more curious is Hao vouching for a luxury vehicle. Inequality is a major theme in Folding Beijing, and in the ad, she notes that “we all inhabit totally different worlds,” explaining that she sees growing divide between the rich and the poor, and the old and young.
That observation about living in different worlds led to her Hugo Award-winning story, in which the residents of an overcrowded Beijing endure a city that is physically folded to give each of its three classes time on the surface. Hao used the story to address the problems that she’s seen with wealth inequality and automation. The story was originally published online in 2012 and was later published in 2014 in a pair of Chinese magazines. American author Ken Liu translated the story into English in 2015, where it was published in Uncanny Magazine.
There is a renaissance happening in the world of artificial intelligence. Using deep learning, researchers are producing systems that can recognize objects, understand spoken language, and even simulate the human voice. The quality of these systems is advancing at a blistering pace.
Just three months months ago, Chinese search giant Baidu showed off Deep Voice, a system for turning text into speech. It could produce speech which was nearly indistinguishable from an actual human voice on the first listen, and do it in near real time. But that system could only learn one voice at a time, and required many hours of audio or more from which to build a sample. Today the company is rolling out Deep Voice 2. It can learn the nuances of a person’s voice with just half an hour of audio, and a single system can learn to imitate hundreds of different speakers.
Remember how long it took for Siri to roll out regional accents? That’s because each new voice required an actual human being to record thousands and thousands of hours of speech. After that, engineers spent a long time hand tuning the software, teaching it how to speak. Deep Voice 2 takes a different approach: it learns commonalities shared across hundreds of different speakers to build a model of the human voice, then tweaks that model slightly to craft different characters. And the system doesn’t require any manual adjustment from its human creators. “Give it the right data, and it can learn on their own what sort of features are important,” says Andrew Gibiansky, a research scientist at Baidu's Silicon Valley AI Lab who works on the Deep Voice project.
Baidu imagines that this technology would be useful on digital assistants that are controlled through voice commands that respond by speaking to their users. It also sees potential in text-to-speech applications like ebooks. “The ability to quickly synthesize multiple human voices will have a huge effect on products such as personal assistants and eBook readers in the future. For example, each character of your Ebook could have a unique voice when you list to the Ebook,” the company wrote in a blog post.
Baidu isn’t the only tech giant exploring this space. In September of last year Google’s DeepMind division published research on WaveNet, a vocoder built using deep learning techniques that made huge gains in audio quality over more traditional speech synthesis systems. Startups are also playing in this market. Last month Lyrebird, a Canadian startup, showed off a system that could imitate the vocal nuances of famous figures based on just one minute of audio data.
As we move into a world where our gadgets are increasingly controlled by our voices, with expectations to reply, this technology will be used to create all kinds of custom characters for our digital assistants. Would you prefer Siri to sound like Humphrey Bogart, Hulk Hogan, or Lil Kim? We’re taking suggestions in the comments below.


Welcome to Cheat Sheet, our brief breakdown-style reviews of festival films, VR previews, and other special-event releases. An earlier version of this review originally in January 2017, in conjunction with the Sundance Film Festival. It is being republished to coincide with the film’s Netflix release.
In January, Joe Piscatella’s documentary Joshua: Teenager vs. Superpower debuted at Sundance, and promptly won the Audience Award in the World Cinema Documentary Competition. The doc felt particularly relevant in that moment, given the widespread protests across the United States going on during the festival itself. And five months later, it still feels immediate and vital, like a rallying cry for anyone interested in collectively declaring their political stances in public. The causes in Joshua are radically different from the ones currently preoccupying America, but the pattern of government action and popular resistance is much the same. The eponymous Joshua is a fiercely optimistic figure, providing an successful example of civil disobedience in pursuit of institutional change.
Joshua Wong is a Hong Kong high-schooler who created a wildly popular resistance movement against China’s attempt to colonize Hong Kong schools with a mandatory propaganda program. His timely response to a new political leader and a set of unpopular new initiatives leaves Joshua: Teenager vs. Superpower feeling half like a template for proactive protest, and half like an uplifting rallying cry, promising that it’s possible for a popular uprising to secure the attention and cooperation of even the most resistant state.
Play-by-play historical documentary.
Piscatella lays out the timeline at the beginning of the film: in 1997, Britain handed Hong Kong back to Chinese control after a 99-year lease. Hong Kongers, accustomed to Western-style governance and social and political freedom, were concerned about the impact of communist China taking over the city. Under the “one country, two systems” decree, they were promised ongoing independence and democracy for at least 50 years. But Beijing quickly began imposing new rules on Hong Kong. One initiative was a mandatory “National Education” program that opponents decried as pro-mainland propaganda, with historical events like the Tiananmen Square protests censored out of existence, and grades based in part on students’ emotional displays of loyalty to the state.
One of the central figures in the protest against the National Education initiative was 15-year-old Joshua Wong, who in 2012 started a movement called Scholarism, demanding that Hong Kong education standards be determined autonomously by Hong Kong leadership. Piscatella opens the film with Wong speaking at a rally, using fiery rhetoric to pump up a vast crowd. He’s a small, gangly kid, but he has an impressive public-speaking manner, and the courage of his convictions. As the doc progresses, Piscatella watches his young subject leading rallies and protests, standing solo on the street handing out leaflets, meeting other students for behind-the-scenes organization, and repeatedly getting mobbed by policemen and hauled off to jail. As the Scholarism movement grows, Piscatella loops in other resistance organizers and organizations. He also tracks the rise in international interest, and the dubious to indifferent response from CY Leung, the Beijing-backed chief executive of Hong Kong.
How one person can absolutely make a major difference in the world, given enough determination, dedication, and support.
From a technical and filmmaking standpoint, nothing about Joshua: Teenager vs. Superpower stands out. It’s a conventional talking-head doc, alternating footage of Wong leading protests with interviews in which various scholars contextualize his impact on the country. It’s as dry and straightforward as a reputable news report.
But from a content standpoint, the film is riveting. Piscatella captures how the movement builds over time, and he’s frank about behind-the-scenes despair and weariness sapping Scholarism’s strength, and how personal determination buoys it back up. His footage of violent police response is harrowing, especially when the police specifically target Wong and his lieutenants. They’re mobbed, separated from the crowd, and hauled away. The protests feel one step away from disaster at every moment. But the slow, inexorable build of the people’s response to compelling leadership is thrilling and uplifting.
Joshua: Teenager vs. Superpower is almost mirthlessly sincere and straightforward, except when it spends time behind the scenes with Wong’s friends, getting to know the central figures of the movement. Wong himself is relentlessly on-message, so Piscatella spends more one-on-one time with other leaders, like sweet Agnes Chow and geeky Derek Lam. (The latter gives the film some much-needed humor by likening the entire political battle to Star Wars: “If you want to defeat Darth Vader, then you’re going to have to train some Jedi.”) The movie’s most charming moments all occur at school meetings for Scholarism, where the teenage activists briefly drop their game faces in favor of horseplay and friendly teasing about Wong’s lackluster video-game skills.
But the film’s inspirational value comes from Scholarism’s long, Occupy Wall Street-style sit-in, and from the rise of the “Umbrella Movement,” so-called because students used umbrellas first to deflect riot police’s tear gas, then to quietly identify themselves as part of a growing collective. It’s heartening to see people coming together peacefully, cooperatively, and above all, effectively.
U for Useful Educational Film, taught surreptitiously in schools around the world, probably starting around age 14.
The film will be available for streaming on Netflix on May 26.
Walt Mossberg’s final weekly column at The Verge before retirement was published today. Our beloved podcast Ctrl-Walt-Delete traditionally echoes his column, and this week’s episode (our 75th!) is no different. In our last episode recorded in studio, Walt and Nilay talk through Walt’s column and the future of tech. The show also focuses on each of the big tech companies and what is possibly in store for their future.
This is an episode you are not going to want to miss.
And I know what you’re thinking... the last show? Well, kind of. We are happy to announce that we are doing a live taping of Ctrl-Walt-Delete for our final show! Come hang out with Walt and Nilay at the School of Visual Arts in New York City on June 9th at 6PM ET. Stay tuned for more details and tickets on the site.
And as always, we still love your feedback on the topics of the show and suggestions on how to make our podcasts better and more fun. Let us know how you liked our show! You can tweet at Walt at @waltmossberg and Nilay at @reckless. And of course, we'd love it if you subscribed on iTunes (here's the direct RSS feed, if you like), along with The Verge's other podcasts The Vergecast and Verge Extras. You might also want to check out Recode Decode, hosted by Kara Swisher, and Too Embarrassed to Ask featuring The Verge's Lauren Goode.
And hey, you still have time to get a Ctrl-Walt-Delete T-shirt! Check out our merch store here.
Qualcomm is asking a court to force Apple’s iPhone and iPad manufacturers to pay up, since they’ve been withholding royalty payments for weeks under Apple’s instructions.
In a court filing yesterday, Qualcomm asked for a preliminary injunction against four of Apple’s suppliers — Foxconn, Pegatron, Wistron, and Compal — all of which it began suing for breach of contract earlier this month. Qualcomm said in April that Apple had instructed those companies not to pay royalties for devices they made using Qualcomm technology. It later said that would lead to a loss of $500 million in revenue this quarter alone because of the missing payments.
Qualcomm and Apple are locked in a worldwide legal dispute over patents and payments, with Qualcomm largely stuck playing defense. Apple has said that Qualcomm has been charging excessively high patent licensing fees for years, using its position as the dominant supplier of smartphone modems as leverage.
In its new filing, Qualcomm says that Apple is trying to force a settlement by throwing its weight around. “Apple could litigate against Qualcomm indefinitely; it has virtually unlimited resources (more than $256 billion in cash reserves) and already has filed multiple cases against Qualcomm not just in this court, but around the world. And when those cases end, Apple can file more cases,” the company writes in a new filing.
It goes on to say that Apple “has chosen commercial ransom over judicial process” and that it’s trying to get an unfair deal on Qualcomm’s technology “through coercion enabled by its enormous market power.”
Apple declined to provide a new comment on the filing, once again pointing to older remarks. In one of those, Tim Cook says that Qualcomm is “trying to charge Apple a percentage of the total iPhone value” when what it provides is “one small part of what an iPhone is.” In a separate statement from April, Apple says it’s suspending payments “until the correct amount can be determined by the court.”
Backing up Apple’s claims is a lawsuit from the Federal Trade Commission, which began suing Qualcomm earlier this year for anti-competitive practices in regard to how it obtains patent licenses. In filings earlier this month, Samsung and Intel also put their weight behind the FTC.

Nnedi Okorafor is one of the most exciting authors writing science fiction and fantasy today, and we really enjoyed her Binti stories when we read them earlier this year. She’s currently an associate professor of creative writing and literature at the University of Buffalo, and has won widespread acclaim for her work, including the World Fantasy, Hugo, and Nebula awards.
The two novellas follow Binti, a bright young woman who leaves her family to travel to a well-known interstellar university called Oomza Uni. On her way there, her spaceship is attacked by the Meduse, a jellyfish-like alien species that have an ax to grind against humans. Binti manages to broker peace between the aliens and humanity, and spends a year at the school before returning home, where she discovers some secrets about her family and heritage. Though the books are short at just a couple of hundred pages apiece, they manage to tell discrete, engrossing adventures. The next installment of the trilogy is Binti: The Night Masquerade, which is set to come out next January.
This next book sees new tensions between the Meduse and the Khoush, who have an ancient rivalry with the aliens. Binti returns home as a new conflict starts, and it’s up to her and a new friend named Mwinyi, to try and reach some sort of peace once again, even as her village elders don’t trust her or her motives. Failure, however, could mean the end of her entire people.
We recently had the opportunity to chat with Okorafor about her books, and got an early look at the cover for the third installment, Binti: The Night Masquerade.
Can you tell me a bit about how you originally conceived Binti? Where did she come from?
Binti was born out of my own personal struggles with family, my own need to pursue my dreams, my need to see Africa in the future, and my experiences of traveling to distant and vastly different parts of the world in a short period of time. And then that concoction was spiced with several layers of fear — from a fear of my own decisions to a fear of outer space.
You've spoken a great deal about your Nigerian heritage. How did this inform Binti's story?
One of Binti’s most central conflicts is with her identity. She leaves home, yet brings home with her literally — by wearing red earth on her skin as part of her cultural expression — spiritually and metaphorically. She’s constantly asking the question, “Who am I?” This question grows louder and louder with each novella. It’s a struggle I know very well as a Nigerian-American who closely identifies with both cultures and knows that a new one is created from the synthesis.
Binti has gone through some incredible changes in the last two books, and she's a different person when she returns to her family. What's next for Binti in The Night Masquerade?
It’s often said that one can never return home, because the journey changes you. Binti learns this in a most interesting way. In Binti, Binti leaves home. In Binti: Home, she returns home. In Binti: The Night Masquerade, she deals with “home” on a much larger scale. The Night Masquerade is the finale of the trilogy (though this doesn't mean there won’t be more stories in this universe), and it’s a pretty grand finale.
Are there any stories that particularly influenced these novellas?
I started writing Binti when I was in a deeply bothered state. Much of the Binti series came from personal struggles, narratives, and imaginings. I can’t really name any novels that were a specific influence.
When I look back, I can see flashes of Hayao Miyazaki’s Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind in Binti. The character of Nausicaä has a lot of similarities to Binti: both are agents of change and mediators. Binti, however, is far more nonviolent. Also, some other elements from the graphic novels and animated films found their way into the DNA of the Binti trilogy. I’m a big fan of Star Wars, and my love for that series and world helped me find the courage to write my own space opera. Lastly, there was a cartoon I loved from the ‘80s called Galaxy High. It was about an intergalactic high school. I loved that cartoon.
One of the things that I noticed while reading these books is that they felt just right for their sizes. They were short, but they didn't overstay their welcome. How does Tor.com Publishing's novella line change the stories that you might have otherwise told if this were a novel?
When I wrote these stories, I wasn’t writing to any length. I would have written these stories in the way that I wrote them no matter what. So I can’t say that Tor.com novella line made them the length they are. The stories came as they would come. However, I can say that the coming of Tor.com’s novella line created a space for the publication of this tale that came to me in such a unique way. What they produced with my Binti trilogy has been all that I could have hoped for — I was given an amazing editor [Lee Harris], beautiful print and electronic editions, lovely covers by an incredible illustrator [David Palumbo], and so on. And if you’ve looked at the other Tor.com novellas, you’ll see I’m in the company of such excellence. It’s a great time for novellas. I had no idea I was on the cusp of this novella renaissance when I wrote Binti, but I’m certainly not complaining.
What else do you have coming up on the horizon?
In October, the sequel to my young adult novel Akata Witch will be released. It’s called Akata Warrior, and I’m so pleased to finally see this novel released. It took me six years. I also have several short stories coming out in the next year, including a Star Wars short story and a science fiction story in the MIT Review’s science fiction anthology. I also have a comic book series coming out next year. It hasn’t been announced yet, so I can’t say much about it other than it’s not set in the United States and it’s unexpected.
On Sunday, The Guardian published what it has dubbed the Facebook Files, leaked documents describing the rules Facebook has developed to govern what its 2 billion users are allowed to share publicly. The more than 100 internal documents reveal the chasm between the platform’s simple and anodyne Terms of Service or Community Guidelines and the complex and granular moderation work that really takes place on the platform. Until now, there has been little information about how hidden teams of workers, assisted by expanding and experimental AI, regulate millions of violent, hateful, abusive, and illegal items every day.
Facebook’s guidelines — which reflect mainstream laws and cultural norms — have proven woefully inadequate for addressing violent and hateful user-generated content. That’s been true for a long time, and it is even more so today as images, both live and still, come to replace text as our dominant form of expression. Murderers and torturers in search of instant fame and glory take advantage of live-streaming and ranking algorithms to broadcast graphic crimes with the swipe of a thumb. Russian hackers steal US Military “revenge” porn from secret Facebook groups and use it for political blackmail. Terrorists create private groups to trade ideas and cultivate violent ideation.
Users post text, images, and more relentlessly on Facebook, where teams of thousands cannot scramble fast enough to scrub them off the site. Facebook, for its part, is releasing new tools that attempt to address the thorny fact that images and live video are outpacing, and even replacing, text-based online speech, which are much harder to control. Clearly, Facebook is failing.
During a visit to his alma mater, Bowdoin, this spring, Dave Willner, who helped build Facebook’s first speech guidelines and is now head of community policy at Airbnb, described the challenge of dealing with images in stark terms: “[W]hile Facebook has technically hard problems—like it has to store two billion people’s photos indefinitely for the rest of time—the hard problems those companies face are, what do you do about live video murder? In terms of consequences for the company and the societal impact, the hard problems are the human problems.”
Despite years of warnings from academics, sociologists, and civic society advocates about the potential harm of unleashing technologies with minimal understanding of their impacts, social media companies unabashedly continue to espouse utopian visions. Tech powers continue to advertise products with promises of magic and awe. These products often come with little to no safety or privacy protocols against the potential for amplifying long-standing exploitation and violence. Facebook markets Facebook Live as “a fun, engaging way to connect with your followers and grow your audience.” That may be how the majority of users use the product, but a quick Google search of Facebook Live turns up pages of headlines about live-streamed suicide, murder, and rape.
“Keeping people on Facebook safe is the most important thing we do. We work hard to make Facebook as safe as possible while enabling free speech,” Facebook’s Monika Bickert, head of global policy management, said in a statement responding to The Guardian’s story. “We’re going to make it simpler to report problems to us, faster for our reviewers to determine which posts violate our standards and easier for them to contact law enforcement if someone needs help.”
Over the course of the past five years, we have both engaged in free speech and safety advocacy work, as well as written extensively about the lack of transparency and power inherent in Facebook’s moderation of user-generated content. We have interviewed dozens of industry leaders, experts, employees, former employees, moderators, academics, legal experts, and social scientists. One conclusion is clear and consistent: companies like Facebook — and the practices they develop to respond to the challenges of moderation — are human endeavors, governed by human experiences, judgements, and needs. And maybe, above all else, profit. Social media platforms are not simply technologies with problems that can be solved with more proprietary technology, people, or programming — they are socio-technologies with impacts which far exceed the protocols and profit goals of any platform.
They have, as is now glaringly obvious, serious consequences for individuals and society. And these consequences are a result of private deliberations behind closed doors. Corporations regulate speech all day, every day. Silicon Valley may not have anticipated the scale, costs, and implications of moderation, but many others, like UCLA’s Sarah T. Roberts, have been trying to raise public awareness and demand greater corporate transparency for years.
Where does Facebook go from here? Solutions remain elusive, but there are several consistent suggestions we’ve heard from observers:
Build a tech fix
There is currently an industry-wide focus on the use of algorithms to “solve” the problem of moderation. But algorithms are learning machines that rely on inputs and past behavior, often turning the “is” into the “ought,” at scale. Automation means the reproduction of status quo inequities evident in the moderation guidelines published by The Guardian. It is currently okay, according to the published documents, to say “Let’s beat up fat kids,” and “To snap a bitch’s neck, make sure to apply all of your pressure to the middle of her throat,” but not to specify which fat kid you want to beat up or which bitch you want to kill. Algorithms cannot appreciate preexisting biases, a specific context, or pervasive environmental hostility in making those decisions. Without accountability, oversight, and thoughtful ethical intervention, algorithms run the risk, arguably and demonstrably, of making an already complex situation worse. Initiatives are underway to improve an algorithm's ability to address these issues, but for the foreseeable future the nature of moderation remains intensely human.
“Facebook and others keep telling us that machine learning is going to save the day,” says Hany Farid, professor and chair of computer science at Dartmouth and a senior advisor to the Counter Extremism Project. He developed the groundbreaking photoDNA technology used to detect, remove, and report child-exploitation images. Farid says that his new technology, eGlyph, built on the conceptual framework of photoDNA, “allows us to analyze images, videos, and audio recordings (whereas photoDNA is only applicable to images).” But a better algorithm can’t fix the mess Facebook’s currently in. “This promise is still — at best — many years away, and we can’t wait until this technology progresses far enough to do something about the problems that we are seeing online.”
Spend more money and hire more people
In response to recent criticism, Facebook announced that it was hiring an additional 3,000 moderators, on top of the 4,500 individuals it already employs worldwide, to take down questionable content. More moderators, the argument goes, could better handle the fire hose of abusive and damaging, “offensive” content. But there is no magic number of people that will stem the flow of violent, hateful, and threatening content, even if they are able to respond more quickly to reports. Adding and supporting moderators, while critical, has nothing to do with the process of deciding what is acceptable content.
Regulate platforms more heavily
In the United States, companies like Facebook are highly unregulated when it comes to user-generated content. This is thanks to Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, which legally absolves platforms from responsibility for user-generated content. Social media systems are not, for the purposes of US law, considered publishers and are almost entirely immune from content-related legal liability. But outside of the US, Facebook is engaged in endless legal battles with governments with beliefs that differ greatly from those of the US government’s.
Activist Jillian York, director for International Freedom of Expression at the Electronic Frontier Foundation runs a project, onlinecensorship.org, that tracks the removal of user content by platforms. She is acutely aware of the tightrope walk between government and private corporation regulations of speech. “Section 230 is vital to ensuring that platforms like Facebook (as well as smaller websites and individual publishers) aren't held liable for users' speech,” says York. She is strongly opposed to any kind of full government oversight, but believes regulation by the state is preferable to regulation by private companies like Facebook. “The US is unique in these protections, and while I understand that there are drawbacks, I think the benefits are enormous. That said, Facebook already plays an editorial role in user content. I think the key is more transparency, all around.”
Don’t regulate or moderate
Free speech activists and absolutists argue that Facebook should not be in the business of moderating content at all. This position is untenable in almost every conceivable way. For Facebook, free rein is incompatible with the existence of Facebook as a profitable, expanding, global brand. An unmoderated platform, Facebook executives and industry experts know, would almost immediately spiral into a pornographic cesspool, driving mainstream users away. Any practical and realistic approach to the problems represented by user-generated content has to presume some level of moderation.
Change how Facebook moderation functions
Almost without fail, executives, civil society advocates, and subject matter experts who have worked with Facebook during the past 10 years believe that greater transparency and engagement are critical to both the assessment of problems and finding solutions. The Guardian’s publication of the moderation guidelines is so important because Facebook, like Twitter, YouTube, and other similar platforms, refuse to share details of their content regulation. While there are many understandable reasons — abusers gaming the system, competitors gaining insights into internal processes — there are many more compelling ones arguing for more transparency and accountability.
Previously, we have explored the possibility that Facebook effectively functions more like a media company than a tech company and that the act of moderation arguably translates into “publishing.” While categorizing Facebook as “media” would not solve the problem of moderation, per se, it would have serious ethical, professional, and legal implications. Facebook would shoulder more responsibility for its powerful influence in the public sphere.
In his 2016 book Free Speech, Timothy Garton Ash calls Facebook a superpower, built exclusively on a profit model with absent moral and legal mechanisms of accountability that exist for traditional media. Facebook controls vast, privately owned public spaces. If the company were a country, it would be the world’s largest. But it does not have the formal lawmaking authority of sovereign states. There is no formal mechanism of accountability. “Yet [its] capacity to enable or limit freedom of information and expression is greater than most states,” writes Garton Ash.
Nicco Mele, a technologist, former deputy publisher of the Los Angeles Times, and now director of the Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy at the Harvard Kennedy School, argues that Facebook is a media company “because it derives almost all of its revenue from advertising, by monetizing its audience attention.” Media companies, he wrote in an email, “have special responsibilities to the public good because of their unique power to shape public opinion.”
The recent attention to Facebook’s moderation fails, he says, “increases the likelihood that Facebook will need to put in place new methods of managing the content published on their platform; the company already does this around some kinds of content (child pornography, for example). In my assessment, the company is far from the level of monitoring and infrastructure their platform requires to meet its obligations to the public — and consequently a likely increase in headcount and expenditures is in its future. The longer the company puts off self-policing, the more likely regulation becomes.”
Mele believes regulation could mean many things for consumers. “We have a long history of regulating media in different ways — remember Janet Jackson’s Super Bowl halftime fashion mishap? Or more recently, Stephen Colbert’s unfortunate use of the word [cock] holster on late-night television?” The Federal Communications Commission, he notes, monitors and regulates broadcast media, so, “there is a precedent that any regulation could follow. The movie industry, facing potential regulation, voluntarily adopted the parental rating system. Facebook is at a crossroads.”
For now, it’s all but inconceivable that Mark Zuckerberg will ever call Facebook a media company or a publisher. Early on, he described Facebook as an “information infrastructure.” He has recently used the term “social infrastructure” instead, as reported by Sarah Kessler, an expression that evokes such public service functions as the USPS or public housing. If that’s the case, then the debate over moderation is really a debate about a global public commons, even as that commons is privately held and regulated.
On the same day The Guardian released of the leaked Facebook Files, The New York Times ran a profile of Twitter founder Evan Williams. In the piece, Williams apologized for Twitter’s possible role in Trump’s win, and admitted he’d never fathomed that Twitter would be used for nefarious purposes. “I thought once everyone could speak freely and exchange information and ideas, the world is automatically going to be a better places. I was wrong about that.” His mistake, reads the story, “was expecting the internet to resemble the person he saw in the mirror…”
“The Internet Is Broken,” the story headline read. “Broken” has become the preferred expression for referring to the dark, unsavory part of the internet. But you wouldn’t know that the internet was broken from Facebook’s earnings report for the third quarter of 2016 — a period during which Facebook’s net income increased 166 percent over the same period in 2015. The company’s ad revenue hit an unprecedented $6.8 billion. Harassment, fake news, and gruesome, graphically violent, and salacious content are profitable because they are relentless drivers of user engagement. Harvard Law School professor Susan Crawford, author of Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and Monopoly Power in the New Gilded Age, says, “This is about Facebook’s determination to have billions of people treat its platform as The Internet… Facebook wants simultaneously to be viewed as basic infrastructure while ensuring its highly profitable ways of doing deals are unconstrained.”
In the case of Facebook, or any other major platform, tech founders and leaders, who make billions off the affective digital labor of billions worldwide, have a distinct responsibility to imagine all the ways their platforms can be perverted in a world that includes murder, rape, child abuse, and terrorism, and those who will use platforms like Facebook to enact them.
“They’ve been trying to contain this problem, real and significant, for a long time,” says Roberts, “but it’s no longer containable.”
We are grateful to whoever took the significant risk to share documents Facebook has worked so hard for so long to keep under wraps, as we are grateful to the moderators, community managers, and senior executives who risked their jobs to talk to us about their hard work. For now, in the words of Hany Farid, “Here we are in crisis mode.” Facebook and others, he says, “have been dragging their feet for years to deal with what they knew was a growing problem. There is no doubt that this is a difficult problem and any solution will be imperfect, but we can do much better than we have.”
Soraya Chemaly and Catherine Buni report on online content moderation for The Investigative Fund.
GLAAD released its annual report on LGBTQ representation in film today, and the numbers are bleak. They’ve barely increased since 2015, and when broken out into more specific demographics, they often got worse.
Overall, representation of lesbian, gay, transgender, or queer characters was slightly higher in 2016 than 2015. GLAAD reports that 18.4 percent of the industry’s top 125 films included a LGBTQ character. However, gay men still make up a whopping 83 percent of these characters, and of the 70 LGBTQ characters that GLAAD identified (up from 47 the year before), 14 of them were back-up dancers in one musical number in The Lonely Island’s summer comedy Popstar.
Racial diversity in films with LGBTQ representation decreased in 2016, with characters played by people of color down to 20 percent from 25.5 percent in 2015 and 32.1 percent in 2014.
The report also tracks representation by individual major film studios, awarding only Paramount and Universal Pictures ratings of “poor” rather than “failing.” Paramount released 15 films last year, five of which featured LGBTQ characters — but GLAAD also points out that Zoolander 2 (the subject of an online boycott) was riddled with terrible, stereotypical parts for these characters, often setting up LGBTQ people as a punchline. Universal released 17 movies, and featured an LGBTQ character in five. GLAAD compliments storylines in Popstar, My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2, and Neighbors 2, but dings the Coen brothers’ Hail Caesar! for using “offensive” and “overdone” stereotypes of closeted but semi-predatory gay characters. Warner Bros., 20th Century Fox, Lionsgate, Sony, and Disney all featured LGBTQ characters in 21 percent of their films or less. Disney was the worst performer, with only 8 percent of its 2016 releases including any LGBTQ representation.
“The bars are not being moved,” GLAAD president Sarah Kate Ellis told Variety, “It is not getting better.”
Of course, it’s important to remember that the numbers, bad enough on the surface, are also just a starting point when discussing representation — thinly written LGBTQ characters don’t represent anybody. Just as important as who’s on the screen, it’s vital to pay attention to who gets the opportunity to write and create the characters. (And despite what Aaron Sorkin might have you believe, that’s pretty easy. Use Google.) Last year’s Best Picture winner, Barry Jenkins’ Moonlight, is an extremely intimate and empathetic portrait of gay black identity, in part because it was written and directed by someone who possessed that experience. It was the center of critical and popular attention for many months, and on top of providing much-clamored-for representation, it did some of the work of setting the bar for these stories going forward.
By contrast, GLAAD’s findings regarding representation on television in 2016 were significantly more optimistic. The organization’s November report showed that LGBTQ characters made up about 4 percent of all TV characters, a number slightly higher than the estimated LGBTQ population in the US. The number of lesbian characters had dipped, but transgender characters doubled year over year, while the number of bisexual characters had increased by 10 percentage points. As usual, the film industry is two or 40 steps behind.
Every company that makes PCs has been chasing Microsoft in the race to create a tablet that can work as a laptop. Samsung’s first real effort at this was last year’s TabPro S, which introduced a number of good ideas, but ultimately was underpowered and fell short of beating the Surface Pro at its own game.
Now Samsung has launched its second attempt at making this do-all device, the Windows 10-powered Galaxy Book. The Book also adds a number of improvements over Microsoft’s Surface Pro, and addresses some of the issues that the TabPro S had, such as its uneven performance. But at the same time, the Book has problems of its own that prevent it from being the ultimate tablet-slash-laptop.
There are two versions of the Book: a 10-inch Wi-Fi-only model that starts at $629.99 and a 12-inch version that comes in Wi-Fi and LTE flavors for $1,129.99 and $1,299.99, respectively. Both models come with a pen and keyboard in the box, which is something Microsoft and Apple charge extra for with their tablets. I’ve been testing the 12-inch LTE model, which has an Intel Core i5 processor (seventh-generation, Kaby Lake), 4GB of RAM, and 128GB of storage. For this price, I’d have expected more RAM and storage, but I appreciate the built-in connectivity. (The Wi-Fi-only Book 12 can be equipped with more RAM and storage, but only one option is available for the LTE version.)
As with most Samsung devices, the best part of the Book is its display. The 12-inch model has a HDR-capable Super AMOLED touchscreen that’s sharp and vibrant with good contrast and lovely black levels. It’s a 3:2 aspect ratio with 2160 x 1440 pixels, which make it better suited for doing work in a landscape orientation than reading in portrait mode. I don’t really have any complaints with the display, other than the brightness adjustment goes from fully bright to unreadably dim in just a few steps. I ended up using it a notch or two higher than the default setting most of the time as a result. There’s also Samsung’s comically dated spinning 3D text screensaver that kicks in after just a few minutes and can’t be disabled.
The included keyboard acts as an input method, stand, and case for the tablet. The full-size, plastic, chiclet keys are closer to a standard laptop keyboard than Apple’s fabric-covered Smart Keyboard or the Surface’s slimmer design. It attaches to the tablet via pogo pins, so there’s no pairing necessary, and the keyboard doesn’t ever need to be charged.
It’s clear that Samsung designed the Book with the idea that it would always live in this case, as it’s too big and cumbersome to really use as a dedicated tablet most of the time. Fortunately, the keys are surprisingly nice to type on, with good travel, spacing, and feedback; they even come with a backlight. The trackpad is also responsive and easy to use — it supports Microsoft’s Precision drivers, so scrolling and multitouch gestures work quite well.
As good as the case’s keyboard and trackpad are, it falls short as a stand. It attaches to the back of the tablet via magnets and offers three different angles of incline, which is better than Apple’s Smart Keyboard and its one position, but far worse than the Surface Pro’s infinitely adjustable built-in kickstand. Propping the tablet up in the case is awkward at first, but it’s stable once you get the hang of it.
I should clarify: it’s stable if you’re using the Book on a table or desk. It’s a completely different story on my lap, where the keyboard case is floppy and extremely awkward. Worse, unlike last year’s TabPro S that had a short, flat base, the Book’s case has a very long footprint, which makes it easy to slide off my knees and impossible to fit on the ever-shrinking airplane tray table. Both the Surface Pro and iPad Pro with Smart Keyboard are much easier to use as laptops on my lap.
That’s doubly frustrating for the LTE-equipped Book, because if it could be comfortably used on a lap, it would be a train commuter’s dream portable computer. A built-in internet connection (the Book uses Verizon for its connectivity) is far superior than relying on Wi-Fi hot spots or tethering to a phone or other connected device, but that’s all a moot point you have to sit at a desk to get the best experience with the device.
The included pen has fewer issues than the case and works well for writing or doodling on the screen. It’s not as good for drawing or art purposes as the Apple Pencil or Microsoft’s new Surface Pen, but it comes in the box and never needs to be paired or charged, so it works for me. There’s no way to attach the pen to the tablet directly, so Samsung includes a pen loop that sticks to the bottom of the keyboard case to keep it all together. It’s not elegant, but it gets the job done. And there are a few software features specific to the pen, such as a note-taking app and screenshot tool. You can also use Windows 10’s built-in Ink functions with the pen if you prefer.
It’s a shame that the Book is so damn awkward to use because performance-wise it’s much better than last year’s TabPro S. I’ve been using it as my main work computer for the past week and I’ve had zero performance issues. I initially thought the 4GB of RAM would be a bottleneck — it certainly was for the TabPro S — but I’ve been able to run multiple programs and lots of browser tabs without having them constantly reload or crash. I can switch between apps and virtual desktops with ease and apps and programs launch quickly. This is not the machine for heavy photo editing, gaming, or any video editing, but for day-to-day business tasks, such as using a web browser, Microsoft’s mail and calendar apps, and the Office suite, it’s quite capable.
You’ll have to get used to the consistent hum of the Book’s fans, however, as they are almost constantly running. They don’t get as loud as the Surface Pro 4’s fans when those kick into gear, but they also seem to never turn off.
Samsung claims "up to 11 hours" of battery life with the 12-inch Book, but unsurprisingly, the company’s claim and my experience differ greatly. Most days, the Book needs to be charged after just five or six hours of use as a computer — you might get more stamina if you just use it to watch locally stored video, but I don’t think most people will use this device that way. It does have fast charging through either of its two USB Type-C ports, but it still takes a couple of hours to get a full charge.
I appreciate that Samsung directly addressed some of the issues the TabPro S had last year (lack of backlit keyboard, no pen included, performance bottlenecks), but it’s as if each improvement means another sacrifice is made. What you end up with is a supremely portable tablet-slash-laptop that can’t be used on your lap and can only go half a day away from an outlet before it needs to be recharged. And that’s before you get to its price, which is hundreds of dollars more than last year’s model.
It also doesn’t help that Microsoft just announced a new version of the Surface Pro that will finally come with an LTE option, sniping right at one of the few differentiators Samsung has with the Book.
The Galaxy Book is okay in a vacuum — it has a nice display, solid performance, and a comfortable keyboard — but in this surprisingly competitive field, it doesn’t match up. The PC market marches on, but this one merely stumbles.
The Get Down, Baz Luhrmann’s musical drama set in the South Bronx in the late 1970s, will not return after its first season. Deadline reports that Netflix has canceled the show, a rare move for the streaming service.
Netflix’s list of nixed shows is short, and the ones it has ended have usually enjoyed a few seasons. Bloodline is ending with its third season, much like Hemlock Grove and Lilyhammer did when they were canceled. Marco Polo got just two seasons. The Get Down’s cancelation appears to be connected to Luhrmann’s inability to fully commit to the project for another season.
On Facebook, he posted a lengthy note to fans on why the show was “unlikely” to continue. “When I was asked to come to the center of The Get Down to help realize it, I had to defer a film directing commitment for at least two years,” Luhrmann said. “This exclusivity has understandably become a sticking point for Netflix and Sony, who have been tremendous partners and supporters of the show. It kills me that I can’t split myself into two and make myself available to both productions. I feel so deeply connected to all those who I have worked and collaborated with on this remarkable experience.”
Luhrmann said that while other productions like a stage show have been “thrown around for the future,” the director is focused on preparing new cinematic work. “The simple truth is, I make movies. And the thing with movies is, that when you direct them, there can be nothing else in your life.”
In an interview with Vulture in April, Luhrmann said season 2 was already in the works. “Sony and Netflix have been very driven about having a second season,” he said. “There has been no question about that. They really want it.” He also voiced his hesitation about being the showrunner right from The Get Down’s start, as well as his disinterest in acting in that role in a second season. “I cannot really be at the center of it. At a certain point, you go, you know, I have a family and I can’t be central to it, and I don’t think I should be.”
The Get Down was a costly show for Netflix, wrapping at $120 million. Last year, Variety reported on the many behind-the-scenes woes the show was facing, including cycling through showrunners and writers, tossed scripts, going over budget, and production stalls.



This is my last weekly column for The Verge and Recode — the last weekly column I plan to write anywhere. I’ve been doing these almost every week since 1991, starting at The Wall Street Journal, and during that time, I’ve been fortunate enough to get to know the makers of the tech revolution, and to ruminate — and sometimes to fulminate — about their creations.
Now, as I prepare to retire at the end of that very long and world-changing stretch, it seems appropriate to ponder the sweep of consumer technology in that period, and what we can expect next.
Let me start by revising the oft-quoted first line of my first Personal Technology column in the Journal on October 17th, 1991: “Personal computers are just too hard to use, and it’s not your fault.” It was true then, and for many, many years thereafter. Not only were the interfaces confusing, but most tech products demanded frequent tweaking and fixing of a type that required more technical skill than most people had, or cared to acquire. The whole field was new, and engineers weren’t designing products for normal people who had other talents and interests.
But, over time, the products have gotten more reliable and easier to use, and the users more sophisticated. You can now hand an iPad to a six-year-old, and, with just a bit of help, she will very likely learn how to operate it quickly. That’s amazing, given that the iPad is far more powerful than any complex PC I was testing in the 1990s. Plus, today’s hardware and software rarely fails catastrophically like PCs did so often in the old days.
So, now, I’d say: “Personal technology is usually pretty easy to use, and, if it’s not, it’s not your fault.” The devices we've come to rely on, like PCs and phones, aren't new anymore. They're refined, built with regular users in mind, and they get better each year.
Anything really new is still too close to the engineers to be simple or reliable. Many people aren’t going to be able to hook up a dedicated virtual reality system, or want to wear the headset. And most of us can’t yet trust Siri, Alexa, or Google Assistant for an accurate, useful answer much of the time. But it’s early days for those technologies.
So: where are we now, and what’s coming?
As I write this, the personal tech world is bursting with possibility, but few new blockbuster, game-changing products are hitting the mainstream. So a strange kind of lull has set in.
The multi-touch smartphone, launched 10 years ago with Apple’s first iPhone, has conquered the world, and it’s not done getting better. It has, in fact, become the new personal computer. But it’s a maturing product that I doubt has huge improvements ahead of it. Tablets rose like a rocket, but have struggled to find an essential place in many people's’ lives. Desktops and laptops have become table stakes, part of the furniture.
The big software revolutions, like cloud computing, search engines, and social networks, are also still growing and improving, but have become largely established.
Consumer drones and robotics are in their infancy, a niche, with too few practical uses as yet.
The biggest hardware and software arrival since the iPad in 2010 has been Amazon’s Echo voice-controlled intelligent speaker, powered by its Alexa software assistant. It arrived in 2015, and was followed last year by the similar Google Home device. I expect others.
But the Echo and Alexa are just getting started. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos told me in an interview last year that artificial intelligence was not just in the first inning of a long baseball game, but at the stage where the very first batter comes up. And, while Amazon doesn’t release sales figures for the Echo family, third-party estimates say that, while they are growing fast, they were still well below 10 million units last year. For comparison, even in a relatively weak period, Apple sold 50 million much costlier iPhones in just 90 days last quarter, and the combined total sales of the far more prevalent Android phones no doubt were much greater.
Google just announced that there are now 2 billion Android devices in active monthly use globally, and Apple announced a year and a half ago that there were over 1 billion iOS devices in active use. These are mostly smartphones, and they are no longer novel.
But just because you’re not seeing amazing new consumer tech products on Amazon, in the app stores, or at the Apple Store or Best Buy, that doesn’t mean the tech revolution is stuck, or stopped. In fact, it’s just pausing to conquer some major new territory. And, if it succeeds, the results could be as big, or bigger, than the first consumer PCs were in the 1970s, or even the web in the 1990s and smartphones in the first decade of this century.
All of the major tech players, companies from other industries, and startups with names we don’t know yet are working away on some or all of the new major building blocks of the future. They are: artificial intelligence / machine learning, augmented reality, virtual reality, robotics and drones, smart homes, self-driving cars, and digital health / wearables.
All of these things have dependencies in common. They include greater and more distributed computing power, new sensors, better networks, smarter voice and visual recognition, and software that’s simultaneously more intelligent and more secure.
Examples of all these technologies already exist, but they are early, limited, and mainly attractive to enthusiasts. Compared to what’s coming, they are like the Commodore PET (look it up, kids) or those huge car phones in old movies.
I expect that one end result of all this work will be that the technology, the computer inside all these things, will fade into the background. In some cases, it may entirely disappear, waiting to be activated by a voice command, a person entering the room, a change in blood chemistry, a shift in temperature, a motion. Maybe even just a thought.
Your whole home, office and car will be packed with these waiting computers and sensors. But they won’t be in your way, or perhaps even distinguishable as tech devices.
This is ambient computing, the transformation of the environment all around us with intelligence and capabilities that don’t seem to be there at all.
It reminds me of a great Saturday Night Live skit, from 2005, where cast member Fred Armisen, playing Steve Jobs, shows off an ever-smaller series of iPods, finally producing a model that’s literally invisible, yet holds “every photograph ever taken.”
Just in recent weeks, Facebook’s famed researcher Regina Dugan has announced that her secretive team is working on using the brain to type, and to control augmented reality devices. They are also developing ways to “hear” through your skin.
Their idea is that, even if augmented reality gets built into standard eyeglasses and can impose sophisticated virtual objects onto real life, it won’t be seamless if you have to push buttons, use touch controls or utter commands.
Apple reportedly has a secret project to monitor the glucose levels of diabetics with new non-invasive sensors, ending the need for daily test needles.
Google has changed its entire corporate mission to be “AI first” and, with Google Home and Google Assistant, to perform tasks via voice commands and eventually hold real, unstructured conversations.
Several small firms are pursuing the prospect of recharging mobile devices with power sent through the air, so power cords won’t be around.
I expect to see much of this new ambient computing world appear within 10 years, and all of it appear within 20.
Every one of these efforts has the potential to create a new world that’s unrecognizable. It’s a radically different way of thinking about tech.
When the internet first arrived, it was a discrete activity you performed on a discrete hunk of metal and plastic called a PC, using a discrete software program called a browser. Even now, though the net is like the electrical grid, powering many things, you still use a discrete device — a smartphone, say — to access it. Sure, you can summon some internet smarts through an Echo, but there’s still a device there, and you still have to know the magic words to say. We are a long way from the invisible, omnipresent computer in Starship Enterprise.
Worse, those early computers were in your way. They were hulking objects that demanded space and skill. Even now, if you look around a restaurant, you’ll see smartphones on the tables, waiting to be used.
Computers have gotten vastly easier to use, but they still demand attention and care, from charging batteries to knowing which apps to use and when to use them.
Technology has been a great thing, but it’s been too unnatural, an add-on to life, for 40 years. What’s going on in the labs has the promise to change that.
Some of you who’ve gotten this far are already recoiling at the idea of ambient computing. You're focused on the prospects for invasion of privacy, for monetizing even more of your life, for government snooping and for even worse hacking than exists today. If the FBI can threaten a huge company like Apple over an iPhone passcode, what are your odds of protecting your future tech-dependent environment from government intrusion? If British hospitals have to shut down due to a ransomware attack, can online crooks lock you out of your house, office, or car?
Good questions.
My best answer is that, if we are really going to turn over our homes, our cars, our health, and more to private tech companies, on a scale never imagined, we need much, much stronger standards for security and privacy than now exist. Especially in the US, it’s time to stop dancing around the privacy and security issues and pass real, binding laws.
And, if ambient technology is to become as integrated into our lives as previous technological revolutions like wood joists, steel beams, and engine blocks, we need to subject it to the digital equivalent of enforceable building codes and auto safety standards. Nothing less will do. And health? The current medical device standards will have to be even tougher, while still allowing for innovation.
The tech industry, which has long styled itself as disruptors, will need to work hand in hand with government to craft these policies. And that might be a bigger challenge than developing the technology in the first place.
Most of the work on this, especially what we and others can learn about and report about, is coming from the giant companies that make up today’s tech oligopoly — Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google, and Microsoft.
But, as tectonic shifts like this occur in technology, oligopolies get shaken up. For instance: today, Apple is the biggest of the group. By all reports, it’s working seriously on AR, self-driving cars, and health initiatives. But its strict and admirable privacy policies make it harder for it to gather the vast amounts of data required for the best machine learning.
Microsoft is still trying to find a way to meld its formidable software and cloud expertise with a significant hardware business. The ad-based business models of Facebook and Google, now so dominant, could prove fickle. And Amazon has only had one really giant hardware hit — the Kindle — in its existence.
But, even if these oligarchs all do fine, and their ranks swell by one or two, the country and the world will have to ask if they have too much power — and, if so, how to curb it without killing progress.
We’ve all had a hell of a ride for the last few decades, no matter when you got on the roller coaster. It’s been exciting, enriching, and transformative. But it’s also been about objects and processes. Soon, after a brief slowdown, the roller coaster will be accelerating faster than ever, only this time it’ll be about actual experiences, with much less emphasis on the way those experiences get made.
As a gadget-lover, this makes me a little sad. But, as a tech believer, it’s tremendously exciting. I won’t be reviewing all the new stuff anymore, but you can bet I’ll be closely watching this next turn of the wheel.
Thanks for reading. Mossberg out.








Xiaomi’s original Mi Max smartphone was incredibly successful for the company — it says it sold over 3 million units — and it’s hoping the Mi Max 2 can bring even more people into the fold. Spotted by TechCrunch, the Mi Max 2 was announced today at an event in Beijing. It comes with a massive 5,300mAh that Xiaomi says will last two full days of use, with over 18 hours of video playback or 21 hours of GPS use.
If those numbers hold up — and that’s a big if — the Mi Max 2 will truly be an impressive device. The rest of the specs for the phone look strong as well:
Xiaomi also noted that you can recharge the Mi Max 2 to 68 percent in an hour, which is pretty impressive. And, thanks to the USB port, you can use it to charge other devices as well, which could come in handy in a pinch. The Xiaomi Mi Max 2 will go on sale in China on June 1st for around $247 for the 64GB, and $290 for the 128GB version.
Earlier this year we learned that Netflix was making an animated TV show based on the Castlevania video game series, but we didn’t know much about it. Now the first trailer for the series has dropped, along with the news of a July 7th release date.
Netflix’s description of the series reads, “The last surviving member of a disgraced clan fights to save Eastern Europe from Dracula.” It looks dark and very dramatic, which is surely just the thing you’re going to want to watch at the height of summer.
Microsoft is unveiling a new name for its game streaming service today. Formerly known as Beam, the service has now been rebranded Mixer. “This was a tough decision, and not one that we made lightly,” explains Matt Salsamendi, co-founder and engineering lead at Mixer. “It was something that we decided on as a team. We believe so much in the power of the platform and want to grow it in every major market around the world. Unfortunately, that wasn’t something we could do with the Beam name.”
It’s not clear if Microsoft had legal issues using the Beam name after acquiring the service in August, but it’s unusual to rebrand without a clear reason. Regardless, Microsoft is introducing some new features to its Mixer streaming service today to try and tempt gamers over from Twitch and YouTube. A new co-streaming feature lets four PC streamers combine their broadcasts into a single stream with split-screen views. Co-streaming is available on PC today, and Xbox Insiders will be able to start testing it before it rolls out more broadly to Microsoft’s console.
Microsoft is also launching new Mixer Create mobile apps for iOS and Android today. They’re available in beta, but they’ll support self-broadcasting and the ability to stream mobile games “soon.” Once mobile gameplay streaming is available you’ll be able to join co-streaming broadcasts with players on PC, console, and other mobile devices. Mixer will also be used to stream Microsoft’s E3 2017 press conference on June 11th. The software maker is expected to fully unveil its Project Scorpio hardware at E3, alongside the games it plans to bring to Xbox over the course of the year.

Imzy, the friendly social network launched late last year, is shutting down. CEO Dan McComas announced the news to users yesterday, saying the company couldn’t find a niche in the market. The site will become read-only on June 16th, and it will shut down completely on June 23rd. Users can export their data if they submit a form by the 16th, and an Imzy Discord server will remain active.
“We’ve loved getting to know all of you and seeing you build communities and make new friends,” wrote McComas. “Unfortunately, we were not able to find our place in the market. We still feel that the internet deserves better and hope that we see more teams take on this challenge in the future.”
Imzy was launched out of beta in October as an alternative to free-for-all (and sometimes toxic) social sites like Reddit. People needed to join groups before posting, and Imzy’s creators said that the site would be advertising-free, funding itself through a planned payment platform that also let users “tip” each other with real money. At launch, it had about 50,000 users, with a small portion using the tipping system.
Operating without ads was a risky proposition in the first place, and Imzy didn’t get the major wave of publicity that other alternative social networks — like Ello and Mastodon — enjoyed, giving them name recognition and a distinct online niche by the time the hype faded. “Imzy was too pure for this internet,” one user lamented in response to the news.
Imzy’s shutdown parallels the recent woes of social network Voat, which was essentially Imzy’s dark twin: it was founded by people who believed Reddit should be more permissive. Last week, Voat co-creator Justin Chastain warned that the site might be shutting down due to lack of funding, and it’s currently raising money from users in hopes of staying alive.
Both Imzy and Voat were arguably indirect products of the internet culture war that started with Gamergate in 2014, which meant that part of their appeal was rooted in ideology, rather than site design or a user base with specific interests. It’s possible this made them less sustainable than other niche social networks, although similarly ideological site Gab.ai has carved out space as a far-right alternative to Facebook or Twitter. On the other hand, social networks can fail for all kinds of reasons — although Imzy’s lifespan was short indeed.
Rumors are flying that Apple is developing some kind of wearable that would continuously track the user’s blood sugar without breaking their skin. For people with diabetes, this would be a huge improvement over the somewhat invasive or downright painful options they currently rely on. But experts warn that if the rumors are true, Apple will be facing a scientific and technological battlefield littered with decades of other companies’ failures.
If Apple is chasing a needleless blood sugar monitor, it wouldn’t be that surprising. (Apple declined to comment.) After all, the market would be massive. About 30 million Americans have diabetes, a disease caused when there’s too much sugar, or glucose, in the blood. People with diabetes have to carefully titrate their food intake, or even inject the hormone insulin in order to keep their blood sugar from spiking or dropping to dangerous levels. So regularly measuring blood glucose is key.
Right now, it’s also unpleasant. People with diabetes have to prick their fingers to draw blood, or wear a monitor that inserts a tiny tube beneath their skin to continuously measure glucose in the fluid between cells (the same fluid that spills out when you pop a blister). So a needleless device — preferably one that continuously monitors glucose levels and spits them out in real time — would be a huge upgrade.
“That is the holy grail,” says Eric Topol, the director of the Scripps Translational Science Institute who also sits on the board of glucose monitor manufacturer Dexcom. And that’s why so many before Apple have made the attempt. Google tried to develop a contact lens to detect glucose in tears, but ever since pharmaceutical giant Novartis licensed the technology in 2014, the project’s gone quiet. (A spokesperson for Alcon, a division of Novartis, told The Verge in an email: “We’re working together to initiate larger clinical trials in the near future, but do not have a definitive timeline to share today.”)
“It’s an incredibly difficult problem,” says Mark Rice, an anesthesiologist and diabetes expert at Vanderbilt University. “Everybody thinks they have a way to do it, and everybody, so far, has failed.” Why? The hurdles are many — so let’s talk about a few of them.
The first problem is that there’s only about a sugar packet’s worth of glucose floating through the blood, writes expert John L. Smith in his book The Pursuit of Noninvasive Glucose: Hunting the Deceitful Turkey. So, there’s not a lot of glucose to measure from the outset. The second problem is that glucose is actually a pretty boring molecule. It’s colorless, small, and it doesn’t have many distinguishing features. That’s why the current glucose tests use a chemical reaction to convert glucose into molecules that are easier to track, either because they have a color, or because they can generate electrical currents.
These tests can be run at a clinical lab or, since the 1970s, in the comfort of your home using a glucometer. In both cases, you have to draw blood — for glucometers, this is done by pricking your finger and pressing a drop to a test strip. More recent continuous glucose monitors use a wire inserted beneath the skin that takes measurements every few minutes, and can deliver the results onto a smart device, like your phone or Apple Watch. Users still need to prick their fingers, though, to calibrate the device with the more accurate measurements from a glucometer.
In fact, both tests are not always perfectly accurate: the test strips can go off if they’re not stored correctly; common drugs like Tylenol can interfere with the chemical reaction; and microorganisms and tissue can gunk up the sensor in a continuous monitor. And that’s dangerous. Inaccurate results could drive people to take insulin when they don’t need it or miss the signs of dangerously low blood sugar — which can lead to coma or even death.
The problem with a device like Google’s contact lens is that the body likes to hold on to sugar. Sure, if blood sugar levels are too high, glucose will spill over into tears, spit, sweat, or urine. (In the 1600s, a physician who taste-tested diabetic pee reported that it was "wonderfully sweet as if it were imbued with honey or sugar.") But as blood sugar levels drop, the body holds on to this precious source of energy and stops leaking it into other fluids. This dooms the prospects of monitoring glucose from the bodily fluids you can access without puncturing the skin.
Some have tried to get to that blister-filling liquid under the skin without using a needle. In the early 2000s, the FDA approved a device called the GlucoWatch. It used a low electrical current to draw glucose right out of the body, where it was measured by sensors on the back of a tight-fitting watch.
The problem was that the device was a pain to use: it caused a bad rash underneath the watch for 80 percent of the people who used it, according to an evaluation by ECRI Institute, a nonprofit research organization. It also took three hours to warm up before it could take a measurement; people with hairy arms needed to shave a clear patch for the sensor; and it didn’t work if the user got too sweaty. (This last one is a big design flaw, because sweatiness can be a symptom of dangerous drops in blood sugar.) The GlucoWatch is no longer on the market.
Technically yes, but again, it’s hard — right now, there aren’t any FDA-approved noninvasive glucose trackers. The two main methods attempted so far have been unsuccessful. One way to measure glucose through the skin is to monitor something that changes as result of blood sugar fluctuations — like how much light reflects off of your skin, for example. If you eat lots of sugar, your skin will get warmer or it might get shinier, Rice says. So you could theoretically have a device that monitors these physiological changes.
The problem is that plenty of other molecules can also cause these changes. And so measurements wouldn’t be very reliable day to day. “There are many technologies that correlate with glucose going up and down — and that’s how everybody gets fooled,” Rice says.
Another more direct approach is to measure how much light the actual glucose molecules either scatter or absorb to figure out how much is in the blood. “There are thousands of patent applications to do this,” Rice says. He admits: “Some are mine.”
So, for example, you could have a device that shines a near-infrared light through a thinner region of skin, like an earlobe, and measure the wavelengths that come out the other side. But the problem is that glucose is just one tiny, nondescript component of the complex chemical makeup of human tissue. So the main challenge with getting this method to work has been pulling glucose’s signal out of all the other molecular background noise.
“That’s the whole secret,” says analytical chemist Mark Arnold at the University of Iowa, who has been working on this method in his lab. And he seems to have figured it out — at least, on rat skin. There’s only one problem with the setup: “It’s about the size of a small refrigerator,” he says. “Not a device that could work on somebody’s wrist.”
Even if Apple settles on a strategy that somehow manages to noninvasively bypass the skin’s barrier, even if it develops a device that reliably and accurately measures blood glucose — there’s still the hurdle of FDA approval. “It’s very different to be a medical device manufacturer than a consumer product manufacturer,” says Brad Bonnette, a medical device evaluator at ECRI Institute. “They could certainly do it, but it would be a pretty big change.”
A noninvasive glucose monitor would probably fall into the category of a Class III medical device, Bonnette says. That’s reserved for products unlike anything else on the market that could seriously harm a patient if they failed. And it requires that a company get what’s called pre-market approval, a process that can take years.
Then, once the device is on the market, there are still challenges to overcome. Bonnette guesses that a noninvasive monitor would initially only be available with a prescription. So that means that the company making the device will need to convince insurers to pay for it. “You’d have to prove to the insurers that it’s worth doing,” Bonnette says.
So it might be worth it for Apple, or any other company entering this space, to consider the lesson of the GlucoWatch. “It’s not enough to get past all of these hurdles, to still be able to make money and have a successful device,” he says. “You can get it to market, and still not stick.”
Readdle is a developer known for its productivity apps like Documents, PDF Expert, Scanner Pro, and Spark. Today the company announced an interesting update to those apps, which adds the same kind of drag-and-drop features for managing files on a traditional desktop computer to its iPad apps.
The drag-and-drop function works between Readdle’s own apps while running in split screen, but it’s pretty neatly done. Files can be dragged from Documents straight into an email in Spark, or a PDF that your boss sent to you can be dropped into PDF Expert to edit before you send it back.
Unfortunately, the drag-and-drop features only work between Readdle’s apps. So if you use, say, Outlook for email, you’re stuck attaching things the old-fashioned way (which on iOS, can sometimes be a bit of a pain). As a whole, the implementation really does feel like the sort of thing that would be great for Apple to implement on an OS level, especially as the company continues to push the iPad as a productivity tool.
Coincidentally, MacStories recently mocked up a concept of its iOS 11 wish list, which largely centered around imagining exactly this sort of feature, so there’s definitely some demand out there for something like this.
Readdle also released a new version of Documents today alongside the drag-and-drop update, which adds a new design, better media features, and the option to edit documents stored in the cloud without downloading them first.
The drag-and-drop update (along with the new version of Documents) should be rolling out to the App Store today.
When Wolfgang Hammer talks about the future of entertainment, people listen. Hammer is the mastermind behind the American reboot of House of Cards, the guy with the unlikely idea of bringing together David Fincher and a forgotten BBC series. He oversaw two of CBS Films’ first prestige movies: the Coen brothers’ Inside Llewyn Davis and Martin McDonagh’s Seven Psychopaths. He’s had a charmed career: leap-frogging from a master’s degree at Stanford to an entry-level job at Media Rights Capital to eventually becoming the president of CBS’s fledgling films division.
So when Hammer came to Turner with an ambitious concept, the cable giant was willing to entertain it. Turner owns TBS, TNT, CNN, and Cartoon Network, but what Hammer was proposing was something altogether different: an all-in-one production company that would thrive online and pretty much do whatever it wanted. Now 18 months old, Super Deluxe is being nurtured with a reliable budget and total creative freedom, and it’s given Hammer the opportunity to play fairy godmother, granting wishes for creators who want to make interesting, innovative art. Super Deluxe isn’t a traditional production company, media company, or art house, but it is a go-between for young talent who have struggled to break the bubble around the Hollywood institutions that can launch stars.
Over a series of phone interviews, Hammer declined to divulge how much money Super Deluxe gets from Turner. Hammer says they don’t have an annual budget from Turner — just a “pot of money” that gets replenished if they do well.
And if they don’t? “Well, then we’re out of luck, and there’s no more Super Deluxe.”
In the meantime, Hammer’s ambitions are grand — and he wields the power and jargon to match. He brushes off an employee’s comparison to Walt Disney, but says, “If you want to say that we aspire to be vertically integrated like the largest entertainment company the world has ever seen… that’s probably true.” He wants to make apps, games, merch, documentaries, viral videos, Instagram stars, his own technology for Facebook Live, and, most importantly, as many of the 50 original TV shows his team has been developing as possible.
The looming question now is whether Hammer can bring all these pieces together into a package that appeals to a large audience. With the recent sale of Super Deluxe’s first big television show The Chances, it’s almost time to find out.
You may not have heard of Super Deluxe, but if you’re part of the demographic that spends its days online, you’ve likely seen its work. Super Deluxe is the force behind some of last year’s greatest internet hoaxes and the weirdest diced-up video edits of the dystopian circus that was the 2016 election. In the last 18 months, the studio produced dozens of scripts for TV comedies, 8-bit video games based on memes, and a Facebook Live video that got pulled for nudity. They’re the specter behind the web magazine Extremely Good Shit and the multi-platform juggernaut Joanne the Scammer. Most recently, they’ve worked with YouTube and Instagram stars like Poppy, Bread Face, and @ScorpionDagger. Their creative director, former Vice editor-in-chief Jesse Pearson, is big on DIY videos — teaching valuable skills like how to give yourself a stick-and-poke tattoo or build your own gravity bong.
Hammer says Super Deluxe is averse to “noise,” but their content belies that assertion, both figuratively and literally: they made the easy Oscars Best Picture fuck-up remix just like everyone else; their go-to sound effects are literally air horns and screams. A lot of the political humor that doesn’t come from fan-fave contributor Vic Berger is gallows-y in a way that can feel cheap, even market-tested, leaning hard on the internet’s favorite mode of speaking — existential dread and off-hand quips about doomsday. Sometimes Super Deluxe can feel like a play for counterculture street cred at a time when the counterculture isn’t that fringe.
You almost certainly haven’t seen the other half of the company. At Sundance in January, it debuted a documentary about Martin Luther King Jr. speechwriter Bayard Rustin, alongside a four-minute viral video about a teen’s friendship with a wild deer. Super Deluxe also premiered The Chances, a concept that the company’s VP of original programming, Winnie Kemp, stumbled across on Kickstarter; it’s now in production as a half-hour TV show. The Chances is the first show to star deaf characters written by deaf writers and played by deaf actors. Its creators, Shoshannah Stern and Josh Feldman, are completely unknown as showrunners.
Super Deluxe is everywhere and nowhere, taking credit for things when they feel like it, eschewing it if it seems like it’ll be more fun that way. Sometimes Super Deluxe even goes out of its way to obfuscate its involvement, like it did when its tech team spurred the short-lived rumor that Drake and Rihanna were about to drop a collaborative album by launching drakeandrihanna.com. According to Hammer, there’s no reason all these seemingly unrelated projects shouldn’t exist side by side — there’s no brand identity more compelling than “complete creative freedom.”
To build that brand, Hammer borrowed a little bit of something old. The original incarnation of Super Deluxe, born in 2007 and scrapped in 2008, was a slightly edgier and way less popular Funny or Die, with comedy talent borrowed from Turner’s Adult Swim. When Hammer presented his untitled business plan, he asked if he could revive the name, knowing that most of the audience he planned to court would likely never have heard of the original: “We thought the name was timeless and if we did our jobs right, would eventually become an adjective.”
Super Deluxe now has a staff of 120 full-time employees, tasked with turning a number of well-intentioned oddball web experiments into a financially viable commodity. The studio is leveling up: it recently added former Vice sales executive Thomas Nolan to lead an ad sales team, and it’s planning on taking more shows to market throughout the year. This fall, Super Deluxe will be taking over a 90-minute late-night programming block on TBS.
In the old model of self-made online success, the only way to make money was to make a lot of free content for indifferent platforms like YouTube and Twitter, accrue followers, then hope and pray that someone would grant you a book deal or a part in a commercial. You could have millions of fans and still subsist on Top Ramen. That model treats raw talent like fuel, and inevitably, fuels get burned. Across the board, YouTube personalities disappear far more often than they transition into stable stardom.
Super Deluxe isn’t the first to consider paying young people to do the stuff they’re already doing for free. Plenty of others have tried to do the same, operating under the assumption that throwing money at a rising internet star is enough to jumpstart success and mass appeal. But a big budget doesn’t erase skeletons from the closet, nor can it structure a series-length story around a character that shines in five-minute YouTube videos. PewDiePie’s Disney deal imploded in February, partly the result of his flippant, detached attitude toward the Holocaust, while YouTube star Miranda Sings’ disappointing Netflix show last year was bloated and clearly lacked a savvy editor in the writers’ room.
Companies built specifically to exploit internet talent haven’t fared much better — experiments like DreamWorks’ AwesomenessTV, Verizon’s Go90, and even YouTube’s own premium service have fallen short of expectations for one reason or another. Other, more successful, networks of YouTube creators have been gobbled up by corporations: Warner Bros. acquired Machinima’s loose network of gaming vloggers last year, folding all of its content into AT&T’s purview and angling for better promo for its DC Comics properties. Disney acquired Maker, along with most of its management, in 2014. A year later, power struggles between the YouTube network and Disney’s corporate megastructure was already leading to layoffs and deflated expectations.
Only a few “creators” have managed to truly break through, unaltered — the remarkably driven Hannah Hart, the creator of “My Drunk Kitchen”; or the Fine Brothers, who maintain a YouTube channel with 15 million subscribers and managed to launch their own production company.
Super Deluxe has a new approach, one it thinks supports creatives and simultaneously holds corporate influence at arm’s length.
Kemp explains Super Deluxe’s role in the entertainment industry in buzzy startup terms: “We’re almost like an incubator. We’re able to help [young creators] preserve what they want to make and present it in a way that makes bigger companies feel confident that the execution and the creative is all going to be there when we make it.” Translated: Super Deluxe gives these creators experienced production teams, the resource of their enormous industry network, notes on their drafts, and yeah, space and time and money.
Their crown jewel is Branden Miller’s Joanne the Scammer, a self-described “messy bitch who lives for drama” who was discovered, of all places, on Instagram by the company’s then-social media manager Jason Richards. Miller says when he and Wolfgang Hammer met for the first time, Hammer told him, alternately, “You’re going to be a star” and “You’re already a star.” Miller signed on for three videos as Joanne; less than a year later, he landed a cover story in The Fader. Now he’s working with Super Deluxe to put together a half-hour comedy series to pitch for TV and churning out increasingly elaborate short films. He has an app and merch — he’s one of the most diversely monetized internet creators currently working. But in his Fader story he was careful to point out how fragile that is: “[People] know my past and they don’t feel that I’m worthy of being verified or talking to celebrities. I have to be funny at all times. If I say something not funny, the one thing — they don’t give me a second chance. I’m cancelled.”
Before The Chances, Super Deluxe had only sold one show in development — Magic Funhouse, a raunchy half-hour comedy about a drug-addled kids’ TV show host that scored two seasons with the AT&T-owned YouTube network and digital content distributor Fullscreen. That’s a sale Kemp and Hammer are proud of. But Sundance Now is a whole other ballgame, a full-blown TV service you can subscribe to through Amazon. The Chances will be that service’s first original scripted series.
When Kemp first met with Stern and Feldman, she and her team were so impressed by their ideas and commitment that they offered to fund the web series on the spot. Once signed, Kemp surrounded the creators with a production team, director Anna Kerrigan, a consultant from the Deaf West theater company, and her team’s help selling the series for television.
Watching the series’s shorts, it’s easy to see why Kemp found The Chances so exciting, as well as how much work there still is to do. Stern and Feldman play best friends navigating bizarre, incredibly specific situations, from a UTI that causes Stern’s character to pee at the table at her anniversary dinner, to an episode about clunky movie theater closed captioning devices, to a tender take on the “someone accidentally got super high” comedy trope. There’s not much there in the way of an overarching story, but the ease between the two leads, and the confidence of the writing, is obvious. It’s reminiscent of the early YouTube shorts that eventually became Broad City — little in the way of plot, but the characters are golden, and obviously belong together.
To rebuild the show as a half-hour drama, Stern and Feldman started from scratch, sending episode drafts to Kemp for notes before polishing them up and submitting them to the Sundance team. Super Deluxe will hire producers and a director, but Feldman and Stern will still write every episode themselves — just like they would have done if Super Deluxe had never come along. When it comes to the script, the company plays support. Kemp recognizes that Super Deluxe’s primary role in the next few months will be in maturing Stern and Feldman as writers: guiding them through the process of constructing a TV show with several storylines, developing more interesting side characters, and spinning up satisfying narrative arcs.
The Chances is an opportunity for Super Deluxe to prove that its soul is really where Hammer and Kemp and Pearson insist it is. “We’re always looking for fresh and unique perspectives, from Vic Berger to Joanne,” says Kemp. “We always bring it back to ‘What does this particular creator have to say? How is it going to ripple through the society at large, and hopefully make some kind of impact or be a point of conversation?’ I just feel like that’s the spirit of everything that the company is making, at its core.”
Pearson echoes her, saying, “It’s kind of finding the right voices and tone and then letting them do what they do rather than mediating or editorializing too much on what they do… I’ve always leaned toward the voice that speaks in the margins, because I believe that’s where the future is made.” Hammer takes it even further: “This idea that you have pieces like [The Chances] living next to some of the pieces we make for Live or Snapchat or YouTube — that breadth is unparalleled. It doesn’t exist. You can’t point to a company in the entertainment space that does that. And that’s what’s exciting about Super Deluxe.”
When The Chances premieres next year, Stern and Feldman have a pretty good idea of who will watch it: “What will make our show so relatable is that everyone can understand how it feels to be on the outside looking in, wanting to be a part of something.”
But The Chances won’t premiere until early next year, and in the meantime Super Deluxe has to shop its other shows around and hedge its bets.
They’re doing that with an ever-widening roster of YouTube videos, Facebook Live interactive stunts, apps, mobile games, an aggressively irreverent social media presence, and, of course, a go at an Adult Swim-esque TBS late-night block.
Facebook Live is a venue where Super Deluxe excels. The tech team, led by CTO Shahruz Shaukat, has built its own box of tools that supplement what Facebook provides, allowing them to make their shows far more interactive than videos made by most other brands. Viewers can collaboratively punch a Nazi, assemble a taco, or decide which celebrities will get a visit from a stop-motion Grim Reaper in 2017. Pearson says Facebook Live’s “punk rock” energy appeals to him — “It’s chaotic, it’s spontaneous, it’s like walking a tightwire. It ties back to the early days of television in some ways.” It’s also an opportunity: a product owned and supported by what is inarguably the most powerful content distributor in history, and one that not many people know what to do with it yet. They recently put together a Choose Your Own Adventure telenovela purely dictated by audience input on Live, a concept novel enough to get picked up by dozens of internet culture blogs. These videos rack up hundreds of thousands or sometimes millions of views, which makes Super Deluxe the platform’s biggest star.
Kevin Reilly, the chief creative officer of Turner Entertainment says he’s proud of the work Super Deluxe has done so far, explaining, “We started Super Deluxe to create unique experiences for a discerning consumer of video on social.” It has obviously done that. On the other hand, Richard Greenfield, a media and tech analyst at the investment firm BTIG, told me he was impressed by what Super Deluxe is attempting. But, bottom line: “There’s no clear path to Super Deluxe making billions of dollars. Most of the traditional media companies make tens of billions of dollars.”
That’s not to say Super Deluxe can’t be successful. Their advertising business is just getting off the ground, and they’ve got the audience everyone wants. Though it might seem risky building infrastructure around untested talent, the process is ultimately pretty lean. And having total editorial independence from their principal benefactor gives Super Deluxe the freedom to avoid the standard pitfalls of entertainment production — costly rewrites, staffing change-ups, projects killed on the vine, ideas that get bloated and rendered amorphous by a cacophony of contributing voices. Everyone who works there prides themselves on speed, and saving young talent from development hell.
If Super Deluxe is the future of entertainment, it’s because it isn’t much like a TV channel or a media company. It’s more like a tool for supporting inexperienced talent in a entertainment world that’s been stuck in its ways. Being on every single platform at once makes Super Deluxe as multi-functional as a Swiss army knife. It can serve as a translator between two parties — the amateurs of the internet and the stubborn pros of Hollywood — who are constantly dancing around each other. That idea courses through every single thing Super Deluxe produces. The studio will bring Joanne the Scammer, an Instagram star, to TV. It took a viral homemade documentary to Sundance. It intends to monetize Facebook Live by throwing together young talent and unique tech on a rickety, bare-bones platform. Super Deluxe’s hustle mimics that of the stars it hopes to create — success could be anywhere, so you might as well try everything.
Correction: A previous version of this article listed two films “produced” by Wolfgang Hammer at CBS Films. He oversaw their production as co-president.
Alto, the customizable email app from AOL, is getting more advanced today with the addition of a built-in calendar. The calendar will show any entries it can pull in from whatever calendars you might already be using (Google, Yahoo, Apple, and so on) and then add on top any events it can find by looking at your inbox. That includes flights, restaurant reservations, package deliveries, and anything else the app can pick out.
It’s a smart addition that could really appeal to email power users, and it helps to position Alto as a better competitor to Microsoft’s mobile Outlook app, which has calendar features built by the team behind the much-loved Sunrise. Alto works with a wide range of email providers — including Gmail, Yahoo, iCloud, Outlook, and, of course, AOL — so its smart inbox features aren’t limited to a subset of people, as is the case with Google’s Inbox app.
Getting to Alto’s calendar is a little bit weird and requires pressing two tiny buttons. That’s because the calendar is technically a secondary view for the app’s “dashboard,” which displays cards representing events, deals, deliveries, and other info it’s pulled out of your inbox. Going into the calendar mode then turns all of those items into calendar entries, which appear alongside everything else in the calendars linked to your email addresses.
Right now, there’s only an agenda view, so it’s really best for people who just want a glance at the day ahead. In the future, the team says it plans to let users pull up a different calendar view by going into landscape mode, and they seem to recognize that calendar users expect to be able to use whatever view mode is already their favorite.
I don’t personally like having my calendar inside my email app — I’d rather have the two be separate, so the calendar always defaults to showing me... you know, the calendar. But the app combination is clearly something some people enjoy, and it’s one of the big reasons that Outlook stands out right now. Alto is already a fairly customizable app, and this addition could help it go a step further in appealing to users who really like to tinker with their email setup.
In addition to releasing its calendar feature today, Alto is also finally getting the Alexa integration that was promised back in December. You’ll be able to use it to check calendar entries and other events that Alto has pulled out from your inbox.
Alto wouldn’t share how many people are currently using its app. But the team said it’s serving “millions of mailboxes” and pointed to Google Play’s install figures, which show between 500,000 and 1 million installs on Android. That range doesn’t represent active users, however.
Oh, and in a bit of mixed news, it turns out Alto will soon part ways with AOL. Instead, it’ll be part of Oath.
It's been a long time coming but Belkin is almost ready to rollout Apple HomeKit support for its WeMo smart home gear. Belkin just announced the WeMo Bridge for HomeKit that it says will bring HomeKit compatibility to over 2 million WeMo solutions on the market. Owners of the Bridge will be able to interact with WeMo devices using Siri and interact with them in scenes and rooms that include other HomeKit-compatible devices.
The WeMo Bridge connects to your router over Ethernet and then uses your home's Wi-Fi to interact with Siri-enabled devices like iPhones, iPads, and Apple Watches. The WeMo Bridge for HomeKit is expected to ship in the fall. Though pricing hasn't been set, one would hope that Belkin follows the precedent set by Philips Hue and initially offer the Bridge at a discount to existing WeMo owners.
Belkin said that it would support HomeKit way back in 2015, the year Apple's home automation initiative was first announced. A year later, it would put those plans on hold citing difficulties in complying with Apple's strenuous requirements. In a Facebook post since removed, Belkin said it would have to put new chips in every WeMo device. The solution it turns out, was to put the Apple-required silicon and software into a central bridge — something Philips successfully figured out two years ago.
T-Mobile is announcing today that its Digits service, which has been in beta testing since late last year, will be available to all of its customers starting next Wednesday, May 31st. Digits allows T-Mobile customers to synchronize multiple phones, tablets, computers, smartwatches, and other devices to their phone numbers, similar to how Google’s Voice service works. The service also allows multiple numbers to be used with a single device, eliminating the need to carry multiple phones for personal and work needs.
Digits users can send text messages from their tablet or PC and have them appear as if they came from their phone. T-Mobile says that the service can allow families to have a shared phone number that rings all of their devices, no matter where they are. Or a second Digits number can be used as a burner line for when sharing your main phone number isn’t appropriate or safe.
Digits works with any Android or iOS device. The messaging service can be accessed on any device with a Chrome or Firefox browser, and the company provides apps for Android, iOS, Mac, and Windows that support it. Recent Samsung phones and the LG G5 have native integration for Digits in their existing dialers — other devices, such as the iPhone, will have to use the Digits app to place phone calls and manage their Digits lines. Messages sent through iMessage will not be synced to the Digits service.
T-Mobile says that during the beta test of the service, most customers used the ability to message from their PCs and tablets, while some found the ability to ring multiple devices with one number useful. Calls placed with the service use T-Mobile’s VoLTE and circuit-switched networks, which are the same as any other phone call, and do not rely on over-the-top data connections like other messaging apps do.
T-Mobile is offering the service on all of its existing lines for free. Additional Digits lines are available for $10 per month, though for a limited time, customers that subscribe to T-Mobile One Plus will get an extra Digits line at no additional cost.

A ton of things happened at Google I/O, but somehow the biggest news from last week was never even mentioned onstage: the latest version of Android will kill the blob-style emoji and replace them with circular ones that are more consistent with those from iOS, Twitter, Facebook, Samsung, and more.
Many people, including some of us here at The Verge, said this was long overdue. But I say nay! To me, this is A Very Bad Move.
As I briefly said in last week’s episode of The Vergecast, I adore the blob emoji because they’re cute, unique, and show a lot of personality and expressiveness. While we can argue about the cons of Android fragmentation, one of the many reasons I like Android is because you actually have so many options to show individuality with the phone you use. I remember when I was in high school during the pre-iPhone years, there were tons of different cellphones to choose — from the ubiquitous Motorola Razr to the music-centric Sony Ericsson Walkman to the QWERTY keyboard Sidekick. Like our clothing choices and brand loyalties, our smartphone makes a statement about who we are.
And though it’s true that a lack of standard emoji across the web means messages can get lost in visual translation, for me, that’s not how I necessarily see or use emoji. When I type in an emoji during a conversation, it’s not because I want the receiver to “see” how I’m feeling — it’s because that’s how I see myself in the context of that message.
Take the sweat drop face emoji for example. This is one I use often (don’t ask) to emote nervousness, but now the Android O version looks legitimately ill, and much sadder than its iOS counterpart.
The kissing face is another I use often. I love the blob version of this emoji because even the little arch from Android 4.4 reminds me of myself — a short, petite person who has to literally arch and tilt my head up to give my significant other a kiss.
Same with the weary face emoji and the way it literally droops down and shows tiredness.
Beyond that, aesthetically, the flat colors on the emoji look great. I don’t need emoji to look realistic or multi-dimensional. (In fact, I think most of the new ones look super dated and generic.) I just want them to be pleasing and cute to the eye, which Android O’s versions are not. Look at what they did to the poor bunny emoji!
@eli_schiff IT GETS WORSE pic.twitter.com/2Rj6MPZl9r
What happened to the ears!?!? It looks like a bear got thrown in a tub of bleach and is now pretending to be who it’s not.
It is admittedly strange how attached we can get with what’s really just a bunch of glyphs, but the fact that they virtually represent us is why the people who love them are so crushed to see them go. Why can’t we continue to be a bunch of goofy, misfit-looking blobs? Wasn’t it you, Google, who said to be together, not the same?
You’re the company that, by some strange fate, brought us this emoji:
Own the weird.
All my blob lovers say it with me: I’m one with the blob, the blob is me ༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ.
HTC is unveiling a new VR headset today, designed to work with the company’s latest U11 smartphone. The new HTC Link includes six degrees-of-freedom tracking, a first for a smartphone-based VR headset, and appears to use an external camera sensor to track its motion controllers with lights (much like Sony’s PlayStation VR). UploadVR reports that both the camera and controllers are bundled in the box, but that the HTC Link will only be available in Japan.
While the Link is designed for the U11, the VR headset includes two 3.6-inch 1080 x 1200 LCD displays with a 110 degree field of view and support for 90Hz refresh rate. That means the U11’s display won’t be housed within the Link headset itself, and both devices connect via a USB-C cable. It’s not clear why HTC is limiting this to just the Japanese market, but the company is not using the Vive branding on this particular device.
HTC’s new Link device comes just days after Google revealed it’s partnering with manufacturers like HTC and Lenovo to launch standalone VR headsets. HTC plans to release the Link VR headset in late July, but pricing has not yet been announced.
Aerospace startup Rocket Lab launched its experimental Electron rocket for the first time from New Zealand today — marking the first of three test flights the company hopes to do this year before the vehicle begins commercial launches. While the rocket successfully made it to space three minutes after take off, it “didn’t quite reach orbit” as planned, according to Rocket Lab’s CEO, Peter Beck. The company will be investigating why and will aim for the Electron to get to orbit during its second test flight.
“Reaching space in our first test puts us in an incredibly strong position to accelerate the commercial phase of our program, deliver our customers to orbit, and make space open for business,” Beck said in a statement.
Based in California and New Zealand, Rocket Lab has been developing the Electron rocket for the last four years now. What sets the vehicle apart from other orbital rockets in operation is its size. The Electron is just 55 feet high, making it much tinier than other commercial orbital vehicles like SpaceX’s Falcon 9 or the United Launch Alliance’s Atlas V, which tower above 200 feet. That’s because the Electron is squarely aimed at capitalizing on the small satellite market, by sending satellites weighing up to 500 pounds pounds into lower Earth orbit.
#ItsaTest pic.twitter.com/KRo1iBB1wK
Rocket Lab hasn’t just been developing a rocket to achieve this goal, but has also been building an entirely new launch site for the vehicle. The company has its own private launch pad on the Mahia Peninsula in New Zealand, optimized for launching satellites into various lower Earth orbit configurations. Today’s launch, which took off at 12:20AM ET, was the first time a rocket designed to achieve orbit has ever flown out of New Zealand. And it was a good sign that the launch infrastructure that Rocket Lab has built will support flights moving forward.
Additionally, it seems that many of the components on the Electron worked as expected. The main engine burn went as planned, as did stage separation and the separation of the nose cone that encases the payload, according to Beck. The second stage engine, meant to propel the satellite into its intended orbit, had a “great” ignition too. For now, it’s unclear why the vehicle didn’t make it to orbit. Fortunately, the vehicle, aptly named “It’s a Test,” carried numerous sensors which gathered more than 25,000 channels of data. Rocket Lab’s engineers in Los Angeles and New Zealand plan to go through this information to figure out how the Electron can achieve orbit next time.
Space - as seen by Electron. #ItsaTest pic.twitter.com/JR2RlZuLFp
“We have learnt so much through this test launch and will learn even more in the weeks to come,” said Beck. “We’re committed to making space accessible and this is a phenomenal milestone in that journey.”
Indeed, enthusiasm for Rocket Lab’s services seems to be high — and that may have to do with some attractive pricing. The company hopes to sell its launches for as low as $4.9 million per flight. That could present a more attractive option to small satellite operators who don’t want to hitch a ride on larger orbital flights that costs tens to hundreds of millions of dollars to fly.
For now, at least, Rocket Lab already boasts some impressive customers. NASA has a launch contract with the company to send a small payload into lower Earth orbit on the Electron. Meanwhile, California-based company Moon Express, a contender in the Google Lunar X Prize, has booked three Electron rides to help ensure that its lunar lander will get to the Moon’s surface — hopefully before the competition’s deadline by the end of the year. Beyond that, many small satellite operators have been booking Electron rides, and Rocket Lab says it already has a nearly full manifest for this year and next.




AlphaGo has again defeated Ke Jie, the world’s number one Go player, in their second game, meaning the AI has secured victory in the three-part match. The win over Ke, universally considered the best Go player in the world, essentially confirms that AlphaGo has surpassed human Go ability a little over a year after the AI first beat Lee Se-dol.
Ke played “perfectly” for about the first 50 moves, according to AlphaGo’s analysis, and evolved his strategy to engage in a series of complex battles across the board. But AlphaGo handled the multi-angled assault well to simplify the engrossing game and eventually forced Ke to resign. “For the first 100 moves it was the closest we’ve ever seen anyone play against the Master version of AlphaGo,” DeepMind CEO Demis Hassabis said in the post-game press conference.
“Today’s game was different from the first,” Ke said. “AlphaGo made some moves which were opposite from my vision of how to maximize the possibility of winning. I also thought I was very close to winning the game in the middle but maybe that’s not what AlphaGo was thinking. I’m a little bit sad, it’s a bit of a regret because I think I played pretty well.”
#AlphaGo wins game 2. What an amazing and complex game! Ke Jie pushed AlphaGo right to the limit.
Developed by DeepMind, the British company acquired by Google in 2014, the AlphaGo AI uses machine learning and neural networks to analyze its probability of winning and pick moves that are likely to lead to success. Until AlphaGo beat Lee, solving the ancient Chinese board game of Go had long been a north star for computer scientists due to its unparalleled complexity and huge number of potential moves. DeepMind’s success came decades earlier than many had predicted, and the new Master version of AlphaGo is more powerful still.
Ke and AlphaGo are facing off as part of the Future of Go Summit being held by Google in Wuzhen, China this week. The final game will be on Saturday, while Friday will see AlphaGo further put to the test in two stipulation matches; one where it acts as a teammate to two Chinese pros playing each other, and another where it takes on five Chinese pros all at once.
Taiwanese company Gogoro is rolling out an all-new electric scooter called the Gogoro 2 Smartscooter. But instead of the futuristic look that turned so many heads when the company came out of stealth at CES 2015, Gogoro is trying to put a modern spin on the classic scooter look with the Gogoro 2.
The company will start selling the new scooter this summer in Taiwan, and it says it will be available “in other markets by the end of 2017.” (Though it wouldn’t say whether that means it will sell the Gogoro 2 in other markets or if that means the scooter will be added to the company’s scooter sharing fleets in Berlin and Paris.) It will cost NT$38,800 ($1,295 USD) and comes in six colors — white, grey, orange, blue, yellow, and red.
What’s wild about that price tag is that the Gogoro 2 matches its predecessor almost exactly on performance, thanks to a new and more efficient 6.4 kilowatt motor. It can go 0-50 km/hr in 4.3 seconds, has a top speed of 90 km/hr (about 55 miles per hour), and a 110km range (about 68 miles) — all nearly identical to the first Smartscooter’s benchmarks. (Gogoro sells a more performance-minded version of the original called the Gogoro S.)
In addition, the company updated just about everything else on the scooter. It’s launching with a revamped version of the scooter’s mobile app, supports biometric security technology (including TouchID), has a full-color LED panel between the handlebars now, and comes with a brighter LED headlamp. It also has more storage and can accommodate a passenger this time around.
The new Smartscooter is powered by the same swappable batteries that helped the company stand out in the first place. But while they’re more slick and convenient than plug-in charging, it also might be what’s holding Gogoro back from expanding into other countries (beyond just scooter sharing). Infrastructure is expensive, and requires a lot of cooperation from local governments. Plans to sell the scooters in Amsterdam, for instance, have been on hold since 2016.
But there is some hope — Gogoro says it plans to add 500 more battery stations to the network of 350 that already exists in Taiwan. If it can prove out a way to rapidly build battery infrastructure, maybe Gogoro can become a new source of electric transportation around the world. It’s obviously already figured out the scooter part.

TV series are shaped by the format of TV network programming — half-hour or one-hour blocks, with or without space for commercial breaks, depending on the network. But more and more people are watching them on mobile phones and tablets, while TV companies are becoming more and more closely intertwined with mobile carriers. So what does the marriage of TV and smartphone look like? AT&T’s CEO Randall Stephenson offered some hints in a speech this week.
At JPMorgan’s Global Technology, Media and Telecom Conference, Stephenson spoke of curating “premium content ... uniquely for a mobile environment” as a new way to make money, now that AT&T is close to merging with massive media company Time Warner. “It will cause [Richard] Plepler at HBO to panic when I say this, but can you begin to think about things like Game of Thrones as an example, where in a mobile environment a 60-minute episode may not be the best experience, should you think about 20-minute episodes?”
Stephenson later made clear that while Time Warner-owned HBO will be tied to AT&T after the merger, “You can't think about taking Game of Thrones and [only making] it available to AT&T customers, that's crazy.” Instead, if you “do things uniquely with Game of Thrones for your mobile environment, where you have the ability to innovate faster ... and if the fast innovation creates a unique experience in your environment, you're probably going to want to make that available later to other providers as well.”
It’s possible to look at these statements as AT&T mulling something between traditional TV streaming and a service like Verizon’s Go90, which produced custom content tailored for mobile video. (Granted, Go90 was a bit of a disaster.) That said, Stephenson is only making vague suggestions. For Game of Thrones, we could be talking about cut-down “highlight reels,” episodes that have simply been split into more parts, or something else. But now that media companies are so close to mobile distribution channels, it’s worth at least thinking about what the future of TV on your phone might hold.
Netflix is becoming a comedy juggernaut, showing just how much the network has grown compared to its competition. Variety reports that the company is working with Ellen DeGeneres for a standup special. The effort would be DeGeneres’ first special in 15 years, and adds fuel to the argument that Netflix is now the new go-to for top-tier comics.
“It has been 15 years since I did a stand-up special. 15 years,” DeGeneres said in an official statement. “And I’m writing it now, I can’t wait. I’ll keep you posted when and where I’m gonna shoot my Netflix special. I’m excited to do it; I’m excited for you to see it.”
Today’s announcement was teased by two cryptic tweets sent earlier this afternoon:
Looks like it's been 15 years since you did a stand-up special, @TheEllenShow. How about one for Netflix?
Let me think about it. Ok I'm in. https://t.co/kUAdHyXAjS
Deadline assumes that deal for the special is in the $40 million range, roughly the same amount paid out to major stars Chris Rock, Dave Chappelle, and Jerry Seinfeld.
That DeGeneres is returning to standup comedy at all is significant. Her last special was HBO’s Ellen DeGeneres: Here and Now, which aired in 2003 and earned multiple Emmy nominations. Since then, the comedian has worked on her award-winning daytime talk show and done voice-acting for Pixar’s Finding Nemo and Finding Dory.
However, Netflix is clearly bullish on working with top comedy talent, announcing special after special at a stunning pace. In addition to the likes of Rock and Seinfeld, the company recently released specials for Louis C.K. and The Daily Show’s Hasan Minhaj. And at a time when it’s betting big on bigger and riskier projects, like Bong Joon-ho’s Okja, working with Ellen DeGeneres shows Netflix looking to grow bigger and faster than its competition.
There are lots of drones out there that can do all sorts of things like fly around, take pictures and video, or even lift a human. But how many can swim?
Meet the Splash Drone 3, the latest drone from SwellPro. It’s fully waterproof, and while it can’t quite swim, it can float, which is pretty neat. It’s actually an updated edition of the original Splash Drone, which the company released two years ago, but this model adds a redesigned gimbal with a new 4K camera, stronger motors, and an improved flight controller. SwellPro launched a Kickstarter campaign for the device launched this week, and it’s already raked in quite a few orders.
The Splash Drone 3 comes in two models — the Auto, which can be controlled by a mobile app, offers a “follow me” feature, and the aforementioned gimbal system with a 4K camera; and the Fisherman, which has a fixed camera, but offers the ability to carry an item up to 2.5 pounds and release it remotely. (In a fishing setting, SwellPro imagines using it to drop bait or fly a life vest to someone.)
While the bright orange color scheme may give the Splash Drone 3 a toy-like appearance, it’s meant to be serious hardware with an equally serious price tag: early-bird pricing starts at at $1,149 for the Fisherman (estimated to ship in August) and $1,399 for the Auto (estimated to ship in July). Despite the crowdfunded nature of the project, SwellPro is an existing company with a history of actually selling drones, which should help assuage Kickstarter doubts. That said, always use your best judgement when backing.
Science fiction never had a problem with plopping magical floating orb robots into a scene. But now that real drones exist, it's become fashionable to put real-ish drones into sci-fi movies, books, and video games whenever the writers are straining for a modicum of plausibility.
The latest example is the upcoming Spider-Man: Homecoming, where Spider-Man has a cute little Spider-Drone built into his suit, which he can presumably deploy to solve Spider-Man-type problems.
And of course you can buy a working replica. Sky Viper Drones is launching the Official Movie Edition Spider-Drone, which has eight legs, four rotors, and includes a controller. Oh, and the controller speaks your favorite lines from the movie you haven't seen yet. There are two versions, one that just flies around for $89.99, and one that includes a camera for recording video or streaming it back to your phone — which will retail for $149.99. The normal version will be available on June 4th, while the streaming version will hit Toys R Us shelves on July 1st.
The drones include auto launch and landing, adjustable control sensitivity, and an automatic flight mode that can keep the drone at a steady altitude. It's still a toy, essentially, but that's not a bad list of features. Although if you don't need to pretend like you're Spider-Man, Sky Viper offers similar drones for a much better price.
Worker safety at Tesla’s flagship auto plant have been called into question again — this time in a report that analyzes three years of federal records — as the US automaker tries to fend off attempts at unionization and undergoes a rapid expansion to produce the Model 3, an electric vehicle for the masses.
Worksafe, a worker safety advocacy group found injury rates at the plant were well above the industry average in 2014 and 2015, according to its independent review of work-related injuries and illnesses at Tesla’s Fremont, California plant. Worksafe, which analyzed reports filed with the US Labor Department’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration, found similarly high injury rates in 2016 at the plant, but is unable to offer an accurate comparison because official industry-wide statistics are not yet available for that year.
The Worksafe report not only outlines an array of worrisome data of Tesla’s past, it also questions whether the company’s recent claims of improved safety are accurate or believable.
Among the highlights at the Fremont factory that employs 10,000 workers:
Meanwhile, Tesla is trying to direct attention to its progress.
“We may have had some challenges in the past as we were learning how to become a car company, but what matters is the future and with the changes we’ve made, we now have the lowest injury rate in the industry by far,” a Tesla spokesman said in an emailed statement. “Our goal is to have as close to zero injuries as humanly possible and to become the safest factory in the auto industry.”
The data analyzed and reported by Worksafe suggests Tesla has a long way to go before it will achieve that goal. The report also questions the company’s recent claims of lowering injury rates at the factory.
Tesla published a blog in May highlighting improvements to its safety record and warning that the latest phase of UAW’s campaign to organize workers “involves a concerted and professional media push intended to raise questions about safety at Tesla.” The blog boasted that the factory’s injury rates were 4.6 injuries per 100 workers through the first quarter of 2017 — 32 percent better than the industry average of 6.7.
Worksafe argues that one quarter isn’t a sufficient length of time to accurately determine whether this is a trend or a temporary dip that might have been helped by a one-week closure of the factory for maintenance. Worksafe also contends that company’s claims are based on preliminary data that can’t be considered accurate “given Tesla’s erratic reporting patterns.”
Tesla has vigorously defended its safety record in recent months, pushing back against claims that ambitious production goals have created an unsafe work environment.
Despite Tesla’s efforts, reports of worker safety issues have energized efforts to unionize the factory.
Ancient Chinese and Persian medical texts — and modern anecdotes — suggest that cannabis is useful for treating seizures. Research has been scant, but a new study of cannabidiol, a molecule in cannabis, has given some credence to these claims. Kids with a severe form of epilepsy had 39 percent fewer seizures per month after taking the substance, also called CBD. Three people stopped having seizures altogether.
In a study published today in the New England Journal of Medicine, researchers gave children a liquid form of CBD called Epidiolex. Epidiolex, manufactured by GW Pharmaceuticals, is taken orally but has not yet been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. (It’s important to note that the study was funded by GW Pharmaceuticals.)
CBD, like the more well-known tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), is a molecule that’s very abundant in cannabis. Both CBD and THC come from the same plant, but CBD comes from a strain called hemp. Unlike THC, CBD doesn’t contain psychoactive properties that make the user high. This makes it very attractive as a potential drug, especially given the boom of cannabis research, including a recent study looking at the effect on THC on learning and memory.
The 120 participants in today’s study, aged two to 18, all have a serious form of epilepsy called Dravet syndrome, which starts during childhood and usually can’t be treated, says study co-author Daniel Friedman, a professor of neurology at the NYU Langone Medical Center. They were randomized into two groups: one group took 20 mg/kg of CBD per day for 14 weeks and one took a placebo. (This type of randomized controlled trial is considered the gold standard for a clinical study. When you randomly assign people, you make sure that whatever is being tested actually causes the results, and that the outcome isn’t just because the two groups are different to begin with.)
The researchers found that the group that took CBD had about six seizures a month instead of 12. In the placebo group, they had about 14 seizures a month, instead of 15. And three people taking CBD stopped having seizures altogether.
There is one big downside though: about 93 percent of people taking CBD had side effects — mostly nausea, diarrhea, but also sleepiness and liver abnormality. And eight people in the CBD group dropped out because of the side effects. (In comparison, only 74 percent in the placebo group had side effects and one withdrew.) These problems may be due to the CBD interacting with other medications the patient was already taking, Friedman says. “It’s hard to tell what are the specific side effects if somebody were to get CBD without anything else,” he says.
Today’s study also lasted only 14 weeks, so we don’t know how long the benefits last, or whether there are any long-term effects. Participants also all took the same dosage, so we don’t know whether a higher dose would be more effective or, on the other hand, whether a lower dose would be equally effective but cause fewer side effects.
All these questions will be addressed in future studies, Friedman says. Future research will also be needed to confirm these results, as well as determine whether CBD can have similar effects in other forms of epilepsy. In the meantime, congratulations to everyone who can say “I told you so.”
Facebook’s plan to seed the service with television-like shows now has some names behind it. BuzzFeed and Vox are among the media companies that have signed deals with the company to create shortform series, according to Reuters. The shows, which were originally expected to debut next month, are now expected to arrive closer to the end of summer.
Reuters reports there will be two types of shows: 20- to 30-minute shows that Facebook will own outright, and 5- to 10-minute shows that will be owned by the media companies, with Facebook taking a 45 percent cut of the ad revenue. Reuters says Facebook is paying up to $250,000 for the longer shows and up to $35,000 for shorter ones — a relatively small investment in a world where a single episode of Game of Thrones costs more than $10 million.
Vox Media, which owns The Verge, will be a part of the effort, I have confirmed. A Vox spokeswoman declined to comment. Other media companies that have reached deals with Facebook besides BuzzFeed include ATTN and Group Nine Media, which publishes NowThis, Thrillist, and the Dodo, according to Reuters.
Facebook’s push into original video represents an effort to siphon advertising dollars away from the fading institution of television. The company has said it is running out of room to show new ads in the News Feed, putting pressure on Facebook to find profitable new real estate. YouTube recently announced a similar effort with stars including Katy Perry, Demi Lovato, and Ellen Degeneres.
Changes are on the way to Sony’s smartphone lineup. The company is discontinuing its Xperia X and Xperia X Compact lines of devices, which it considers “premium standard” (midrange), Sony announced at its investor conference, according to XperiaBlog.
Sony has decided to shift its focus to its flagship devices, and says it will launch at least two new devices that fit into that category before the end of the year under the Xperia name. Given the trend of smartphones and Sony’s design prowess, those devices  should be something interesting to say the least. But as usual with Sony smartphones, the software will remain the big question.
Sony usually unveils its flagship device at IFA in September, so it shouldn’t be too long before we see new devices from the fabled company.
American air travel is miserable in almost every possible way, from increasingly onerous security procedures to the threat of literally having your teeth knocked out. But based on the video above, I’m going to cling to the notion that things are better in New Zealand, because airlines there are apparently busy figuring out how to let flight attendants read your emotions with augmented reality.
The project is a collaboration between Air New Zealand and Dimension Data, using the Microsoft HoloLens headset. As VRScout notes, it’s supposedly in beta testing, and it’s not clear how much of what we see in the video exists. In the system Air New Zealand describes, HoloLens-equipped flight attendants could identify passengers through (as far as I can tell) facial recognition, calling up details about their destination, allergies, and even the time since they got their last beverage.
In addition to this, the program would detect a passenger’s mood through “visual and audio cues” — in the video, an attendant sees them go from “calm” to “anxious” and back again. Of course, it’s not clear whether HoloLens could pick this up better than an actual human, and the whole facial recognition process seems far more complicated than Air New Zealand’s previous biometric bag drop system, which matched faces to scanned passports. There’s also the matter of this generation of HoloLens being ridiculous-looking and uncomfortable, and interactions being a little difficult — later in the video, you can see someone getting trained to perform the signature “air tap” gesture.
But in the long run, augmented reality displays actually are a good idea for people who need to see information while walking around and using their hands. Also, facial recognition systems would only have to scan against the relatively small number of people with boarding passes, not an entire database of potential customers. In coach class, though, it may not be used for much more than saving my preference for peanuts, pretzels, or cookies.
A new update to Google Photos will now let you archive photos from the main feed and hide them away, helping you declutter and privatize some personal photos. First spotted by 9to5Google, all you have to do is hold the photo(s) and hit the “...” menu on the right side to bring up the archive option. Later, when you want to revisit those photos, you can find them on the left side menu under a separate folder.
While it might not seem as buzzworthy as, say, Instagram’s implementation of it on a user profile, it is great if you share a library with a significant other or family members and don’t want certain images just floating about in the main feed. You can also archive away repetitive photos, screenshots, or whatever you might not want to see while scrolling through the gallery. And let’s not forget what it’s truly useful for: relocating, ahem, private images you don’t want others to see when you hand them your phone to show them a picture. (We all have those friends who keep swiping a little too far back.)
The update is out now for version 2.15 of Google Photos on Android — the feature should be coming soon to the web and iOS.
Man at Arms: Reforged is a video series that follows a team of blacksmiths that puts together a new video of some type of sword or weapon from various games, movies, or television shows every couple of weeks. Their latest project is a replica of Wonder Woman’s shield, and the results are stunning.
The team starts off by cutting out a round piece of steel, and proceeds to heat and hammer it into the right shape. There are other components that they have to create, such as buckles, which they mold in clay and cast in bronze. This build is a bit more complicated than the usual swords that they showcase, and it’s fun to watch them change up their routine for a new challenge.
What’s most impressive about this build is the number of tiny details that make this prop look like a real, used shield. They hammer in faux cracks, rivets, lettering, and a magnificent eagle in the center, before topping it off with some gold leaf. This is also no mere prop: after heat-treating the shield, it’s a formidable piece of armor, and they demonstrate how well it holds up by shooting arrows at it, which splinter on impact.
The final result is a truly beautiful piece of work that looks as though it’s saved its bearer more than a couple of times.
Pokémon Go developer Niantic has repeatedly made it clear that the company disapproves of players who use unofficial third-party software to boost their experience. Now Niantic has allegedly come up with a unique form of punishment. Rather than being able to detect and catch the fame’s full roster of pokémon, these so-called cheaters can only spot the most common creatures, like Pidgey, Rattata, and Zubat.
This “shadowban,” as spotted by The Next Web, effectively shoves players into a neutered version of the game, where they can’t see rare spawns. Last August, Niantic began issuing permanent bans to players who violated its terms of service. Players were punished for acts such as using emulators, using modified or unofficial software, falsifying their locations, or accessing Pokémon Go clients or backends via third-party apps. The choice was controversial among players, as it also crippled third-party services like PokéVision, a map that helped users locate pokémon.
Users on The Silph Road subreddit, a community of Pokémon Go players, say affected accounts aren’t being banned outright, they’re just being “flagged” as illicit. “Huge numbers of bot accounts were being flagged, though many were still operating normally,” reads a post on the subreddit. “It was initially suspected that accounts were flagged due to using deprecated API calls to access server resources from Niantic's private API, which may have been true, but it turned out not to be the only reason illicit accounts were flagged.
“As of this moment, it is still unclear what behavior is tipping off Niantic that an account is not legitimate.”
As reported by our sister site Polygon, players using bots or third-party tools have encountered warnings like this:
The Silph Road post says not all bot accounts are being flagged. “As bot accounts (which power ‘scanners’) are being flagged, some scanners are only able to show common species. Others have shut down temporarily, pending a workaround to the anti-botting measures, to preserve their accounts from being shadowbanned.”
We’ve reached out to Niantic for comment, and will update accordingly.
How do we judge Tesla’s progress over time?
Tesla, unlike other automakers, doesn’t have traditional model years. The predictable schedule of small annual updates between major refreshes isn’t part and parcel of Tesla’s DNA, nor its hardware.
Instead, the tech-centric company regularly updates software to improve or add performance and safety features in its electric vehicles. These wireless over-the-air software updates are a selling point to consumers who see value in, and are willing to pay for, a vehicle that theoretically improves over time.
Tesla is judged more like a student — in marking periods, at the discretion of its critics. The recent nick and partial restoration of Tesla’s standing with Consumer Reports is more than just another bump in the up-and-down relationship between the rating organization and the electric automaker.
It also highlights one of Tesla’s greatest attributes and its biggest challenges: how do the consumer, the investor, and even Tesla itself measure its own progress?
The updates are among customers’ favorite features that set Tesla apart, but this process can, on occasion, backfire and even cause discontent among owners when there isn’t consistency among its vehicles.
Three weeks ago, the Tesla Model S lost its top spot in the ultra luxury vehicle category after Consumer Reports lowered its score because newer versions of the sedan didn’t have a functioning automatic emergency braking system — a safety feature Tesla said would come standard in its cars. Model X was also docked two points on the Consumer Reports 100-point scale.
Now, Tesla is climbing back up Consumer Reports’ vehicle ratings after the electric automaker updated its software to add automatic emergency braking to its new Model S sedans and Model X sport utility vehicles.
CR restored only one of the two points it docked Tesla because the updated braking system doesn’t work at highway speeds. Older iterations of the S and X have AEB systems that work up to 90 mph, according to Consumer Reports. Once the vehicles have AEB operational at higher speeds, CR says testers will reconsider the scores. The Model S now has a score of 86, and sits just one point behind the No. 1 Lexus LS.
In October, Tesla began producing Model S and Model X vehicles with a new robust suite of sensors, radar, and cameras. These “hardware 2” vehicles aim to push automated driving capabilities to new levels — eventually.
When the first deliveries of Hardware 2-equipped vehicles began, they were less capable in some ways than their earlier predecessors. New software is released after Tesla validates it.
The automatic emergency braking system, which comes standard in the car, was supposed to be rolled out in the new vehicles by the end of 2016, CR says. Instead, the AEB software update began at the end of April.
Tesla has said AEB and other safety features are a top priority and will introduce them as soon as they’re ready. The company directed The Verge to its statement from last month.
“We believe it would be morally wrong and counterproductive to our goal of improving consumer safety to release features before they’re ready, and we believe our customers appreciate that,” the Tesla statement said.
CR, which has been both a critic and a fan of the company’s vehicles, says it didn’t dock Tesla two points because the company took its time to validate the software, according to Jake Fisher, director of automotive testing at Consumer Reports. CR dubbed the Model S the best car it’s ever evaluated in 2014. It bumped it up even further in 2015, only to drop its recommendation later that year because a survey of owners raised reliability concerns.
“When we purchased the vehicle we were told the car would have this system by the end of 2016,” Fisher said. “The idea of validating things and putting on new enhancements later as you own the car is not the problem. The problem is selling a vehicle promising a certain safety device and not delivering on that (timeline).”
The ability to roll out new features is what makes Tesla unique and appealing, Fisher added. The problem is that the company promised this standard safety feature by the end of December and it took five more months to deliver on that, he said.
“It’s not about awarding it the top score or penalizing Tesla; all we’re doing is just being very clear to consumers what they get with this car,” Fisher said.
OTA software updates have allowed Tesla to bring newer versions of its vehicles to the marketplace at a pace that’s closer to a tech company, not an automaker. However, that strategy can lead to disappointment when features are deployed slower than expected.
Tesla’s use of this technology is challenging auto industry standards. Now Tesla must transition from buzzy disruptor to a company that serves a variety of customers, not just its fans and well-heeled early adopters.
These new customers may be initially wooed by Tesla’s tech and brand ethos. But they’ll only be won over if they understand exactly what they’re getting, and if Tesla delivers.
Microsoft held a special event in China earlier this week to launch the company's new Surface Pro hardware. While the software giant promised to live blog the event itself, Microsoft's plans failed due to connectivity and the company didn't live stream any video of the event either. Microsoft has now posted a 45-minute video of the main part of the launch event, featuring Surface chief Panos Panay.
Panay spends some time looking back at the history of Surface, before introducing the new Surface Pro. There are demonstrations of the new Surface Pen, details on the more than 800 hardware changes inside, and a closer look at the new hinge. If you enjoy Panay's hardware introductions or you're just a little curious about the new Surface Pro then Microsoft's video is available above or on YouTube. We also have a closer look at the new Surface Pro right here.
Last week at Google I/O, the company announced that it will expand Android Pay to a number of new markets, including Brazil, Germany, Spain, and Taiwan. It launched in Russia this week, and now it looks like it’s headed next to Canada on May 31st.
Android Pay will work with most major credit and debit cards in Canada, reports MobileSyrup, but Google did not specify which bank partners will be available to use with the platform at launch. On the vendor side, however, if trends from other countries are any indication, Canadians will have no problem using Android Pay at global franchises like BP, Uber, Burger King, Starbucks, and more.
Android Pay is compatible with Android versions 4.4 and up.
Fans finally got their first real look at the next season of Game of Thrones, and the series looks like it plans on outdoing itself. (Which is astounding, considering how Cersei basically blew up part of King’s Landing last year.) The events of the past few seasons have been littered with shocking deaths and over-the-top battles. But the seventh season raises the stakes beyond the petty wars between different kingdoms. Dragons are coming across the Narrow Sea, and White Walkers threaten to lay waste to the entire continent.
There’s still so much we don’t know about the upcoming season of Thrones, but the latest trailer provides a number of big clues for what we can expect.
Minor spoilers ahead.
It’s taken seven seasons to get here, but Daenerys has finally made it to Westeros, and she’s got her dragons, Tyrion Lannister, and a massive army made up of Unsullied, Dothraki, and troops from Dorne, Highgarden, and the Greyjoys behind her.
As we saw in the earlier teaser, she’s setting up shop on the island of Dragonstone (Stannis’ former castle), but it’s clear that the Mother of Dragons has her eyes on a bigger prize. “I was born to the rule the Seven Kingdoms. And I will,” Daenerys intones in a voiceover, as Unsullied battle Lannister troops in what looks to be Casterly Rock.
And if the closing scenes of the trailer, with Drogon flying over a charging army of Dothraki, is anything to go by, the fight between Daenerys and Cersei for the Iron Throne is coming to a head.
After the Battle for Winterfell at the end of last season, Jon Snow was crowned King of the North. Now, the North stands behind him as it prepares for the arrival of the White Walkers and their army of the dead. As Jon told his bannermen during last season’s finale, “The war is not over.”
But Jon’s new position would not have been possible without Sansa calling in the help of Littlefinger and the Knights of the Vale to turn the tide against Ramsay Bolton. Sansa has grown to be as cunning and ruthless as any of Jon’s enemies, thanks in no small part to Littlefinger. And Littlefinger has plans to rule all of Westeros, even if it means seeing it all burn down.
Jon and Sansa are the last Starks in Winterfell (Bran, now the Three-Eyed Raven, is still beyond the Wall) and they need each other to survive. But with Littlefinger in Sansa’s ear, there’s almost certainly going to be conflict that distracts from the Great War to come.
After killing Walder Frey and avenging her mother and brother’s murders, Arya Stark is now alone to wander the Riverlands and mull over the people on her list she still needs to kill. While many people on that list have died over the years, like King Joffrey and Tywin Lannister, several are still alive.
One person on her list is newly at large: Melisandre. Melisandre met Arya after a run-in with the Brotherhood Without Banners, and said, with an ominous tone, that they’d meet again.
After Ser Davos Seaworth discovered that Melisandre had ordered Shireen Baratheon be burned at the stake, Jon Snow banished her from Winterfell. Now, she’s riding south, right in Arya’s direction. It’s almost inevitable that these two meet — but don’t count on Arya killing Melisandre too quickly. There’s probably a lot the pair can learn about each other before the series is done.
House Stark has been warning us from the very beginning that “Winter is Coming” and it is finally, finally here. We’ve seen the Night King and his massive army over the course of the past two seasons, and given that they’re reanimated corpses, we can only assume that said army has continued to accrue members. While the White Walkers and wights remain offscreen in the trailer, the threat of them bringing eternal winter to all of Westeros is realer than ever.
There have been hints of the Wall coming down in previous seasons, which would let the Walkers roam freely into Westeros. So far, we know that White Walkers can be defeated using Dragonglass and Valyrian steel, both of which are in very limited supply in Westeros. So while Cersei and Dany are battling for the Iron Throne down south, the real threat remains in the North — but for how much longer?
As Ser Davos warns an unseen listener, “If we don’t put aside our enmities and band together, we will die. And then it doesn’t matter whose skeleton sits on the Iron Throne.”
There’s so much more to consider that we haven’t seen yet. What about Sam and Gilly in Oldtown? Will Bran escape the Night King? Whatever happened to Euron Greyjoy? Will we ever actually see Rhaegar Targaryen? But this new trailer lays the groundwork in the best way possible, getting us hyped for the series’s return this summer.
Game of Thrones returns on July 16th.
Airport security: two words that can strike dread into the heart of any traveler. Largely due to the slow process of checking your bags, along with the added hassles of emptying pockets and removing shoes, belts, coats, and laptops into extra bins.
But there’s good news! According to a new report from The Wall Street Journal, the TSA is looking to make that process even more complicated by requiring passengers to remove more items from their bags at the security checkpoint. To be fair, the changes aren’t being done to slow down travelers — rather they’re due to the increase in passengers trying to cram as much stuff into carry-on bags as possible (a separate issue caused by airlines charging expensive fees to check bags), TSA screeners are having problems reading X-rays due to the cluttered contents.
To that end, the TSA is looking to add items to the list of things that must be placed in separate bins. The procedures are still getting tested, but current proposals have suggested forcing passengers to remove all food and paper from their bags, in addition to laptops or other large electronics. According to Darby LaJoye, the assistant administrator for security operations at the TSA, the changes aren’t due to a concern over any one item — no one really thinks your apple is a bomb — but about figuring out a way to get more stuff out of bags for faster X-rays. According to The Wall Street Journal, which items are required to be removed could change from airport by airport or on a line-by-line basis. Compliance might be optional for some items, with the downside that not-removing items could make you more likely to be slowed down with a manual search.
It makes sense in a way, given that TSA staff must be able to identify all the items in a bag and manually check if something looks unsafe. But the TSA is hoping that the new rules won’t add to people’s time in line, under the assumption that the time lost removing stuff from bags will be made up in faster X-ray scans. As someone who has spent time in an airport security line before, I would posit that this is an optimistic outlook that borders on naïvety regarding human nature.
Members of the TSA Pre-Check program (which requires an $85 application fee that must be renewed every five years and is granted or denied solely at the TSA’s discretion) likely won’t be seeing the changes.
The TSA is currently running small-scale trials of the changes in airports in Colorado Springs, Boise, Lubbock, Los Angeles, Phoenix, Las Vegas, Boston, Detroit, Fort Lauderdale, and San Juan, Puerto Rico, with changes set to be finalized in the coming weeks, with a goal of putting the new rules in place after the summer travel season ends.
If you can even remember the year 2003, I’m guessing one thing you remember is that it’s the year Disney released a film based on a theme-park ride.
That film is significant mostly due to the absolute absurdity of its confidence. It had a summer-blockbuster release date, a ridiculously long name for the first installment in a franchise, a director fresh off The Ring, Orlando Bloom fresh off the second Lord of the Rings movie, and that elevator pitch, “It’s a movie based on a theme-park ride.” More specifically, based on a boat ride through the unsettling world of animatronic pirates, built in California’s Disneyland in 1967, then replicated in Florida’s Walt Disney World in 1973, Tokyo’s Disneyland in 1983, and Paris’ Disneyland in 1992.
Nevertheless, Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl was almost universally praised, with special compliments for the score, the signature Disney magic in the production design, and for Johnny Depp’s Captain Jack Sparrow, a character who felt like a throwback to the era of musical comedy and hammy pratfalls. Most importantly, Elvis Mitchell of The New York Times posed the question in his review, “Can a movie maintain the dramatic integrity of a theme-park ride?” and then he answered himself: “Sure.” As someone who was 10 years old at the time, I’ll submit my own answer to that question: “Oh, heck yes.”
Four movies later, we have arrived at the point where Johnny Depp is no longer an actor anybody wants to compliment, and where people barely remember Orlando Bloom is a person, and where the Pirates franchise has been turned over to two virtually unknown directors. Everything in the world has changed, except, of course, the oldest and most disturbing robot-men who still reside at various Disney theme parks around the world — their fake leg hair, their glassy eyes, their elbows crooked to hold bottles of rum. They’re still there, singing “Yo ho, yo ho, a pirate’s life for me,” chasing gold around an endless track, and lobbing fake cannonballs at 4-year-olds.
Does Dead Men Tell No Tales still capture that theme-park magic, or has it lost its way? I went to see it, in Times Square, to find out. For you.
Note: This is not a film review. I’m only going to answer one question — the one posed in my headline — and if it’s not a question you care about then I suggest moving along.
SPOILERS FOR THE WHOLE MOVIE AHEAD.
For starters, I was supposed to have a friend with me at this screening of Dead Men Tell No Tales, much like one might take a friend to Disney World. But then she decided she was going to the gym instead. Not Disney magic.
However, there were children in my press screening, and some of them were in pirate costumes. In front of me, two teen boys scolded their mother for not turning off her phone, even as she was in the process of turning off her phone. She hissed, “Geez!” Disney magic.
The run-time of Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales is two hours and 33 minutes. The run-time of the Disney World Pirates of the Caribbean ride is eight minutes and 30 seconds. Not Disney magic.
The film opens with a young boy sitting in a dark room, looking at his favorite poster, which is titled “Father’s Curse.” Already I’m a little worked up, thinking “My God, this childhood will produce a strange adult.” Not Disney magic.
The young boy finds his dad, Orlando Bloom. If you can recall Pirates of the Caribbean: At World’s End (2007), you know Bloom has been cursed to work on The Flying Dutchman, an enchanted boat that turns everyone on it into a weird hybrid squid-person. He looks absolutely nuts. He tells the young boy, “You will never figure out how to break my curse. Love you, though.” The scene is excruciatingly boring until he says “Stop acting like—” and the kid goes…
…
…
“A pirate?” Disney magic.
This movie has a lot of fog, which is something I remember from the Pirates of the Caribbean ride in Disney World’s Magic Kingdom in Orlando, Florida. Disney magic.
Nine years later, the boy, named Henry (played by The Giver’s Brenton Thwaites), is pissing off everyone on the British naval ship he works on. They’re about to sail directly into a boat covered in zombie pirates, and he doesn’t think they should. That’s treason! Also, it’s scary. Not Disney magic.
Captain Salazar (Javier Bardem) is the leader of the zombie pirates, and he is revolting to behold. When he talks, a melted black-licorice substance oozes out from between his teeth. Also, the back of his head is missing. Someone says “What are you?” And he says, “Death.” Bardem has been nominated for two Academy Awards, and won one of them. Disney magic.
Salazar kills everyone except Henry, because “dead men tell no tales,” and he needs to leave someone alive who can tell Jack Sparrow that he hates him. This is when we see the title card for the film, which reads Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales. I am a sucker for the moment in a movie where someone says the title of the movie, and this scene does it twice. Disney magic.
The other thing you need to know about Licorice-Mouth is that everyone calls him “El Matador del Mar,” and they translate it as “The Butcher of the Sea,” which is maybe technically accurate if you go back to the roots of the word, but is going to confuse everyone who’s familiar with matadors as bullfighters. Walt Disney World, by contrast, is famously attentive to detail. Not Disney magic.
The next few minutes of this movie take place on the island of St. Martin, where Henry has been taken to the hospital, even though he’s going to be hanged for treason. The set looks identical to the vaguely Spanish Colonial-themed section of Disney’s Magic Kingdom. Disney magic.
Also on the island, we meet a young woman named Carina (The Maze Runner’s Kaya Scodelario) whom everyone hates because she’s a scientist, which the government mistranslates as “a witch.” She is trying to buy some kind of astronomy device, but failing because everyone’s sexist. Not Disney magic.
Next we meet Johnny Depp, as Jack Sparrow, hanging out inside a bank vault he accidentally locked himself into. Setting aside what you may feel about him, Depp’s voice and likeness were incorporated into the Disney World ride in 2006. This can’t be helped. Disney magic.
He is drunker than ever before. Not Disney magic.
There is a bonkers chase scene in which the entire bank gets dragged around the island by some horses, in incredible defiance of physics. Repeatedly, Jack nearly gets killed or arrested, but does not. As with most Disney theme-park rides, this pointless but exhilarating scene involved many moving pieces and seems to have cost a lot of money. Disney magic.
By the end, the whole town is destroyed. The bank vault Jack was trying to rob is empty, prompting his first mate, Mr. Gibbs, to rage-quit with the extremely melodramatic line “We’ve reached the end of our horizon.” There is no mass destruction or emotional turmoil in Disney World’s Pirates of the Caribbean ride. Not Disney magic.
Carina and Henry meet in the hospital and instantly become allies, bonding over the fact that they both want to find the magical trident of Poseidon. For him, it’s a matter of breaking Father’s Curse. For her, it’s a matter of proving she’s a great scientist. She explains that the famous astronomer Galileo Galilei was secretly obsessed with a star map to the trident, and her absentee father left her a magical diary that will help her decipher “the map no man can read.” Disney magic.
She reasons that she will be able to read the map because “luckily” she is not a man — she is a woman. This line also appears in Lord of the Rings: Return of the King and the third episode of the third season of HBO’s Game of Thrones. Not Disney magic.
Jack Sparrow trades his magic compass for some booze, then gets arrested. There is no police presence inside the Pirates of the Caribbean attraction at Disney World. Not Disney magic.
For whatever reason, Jack trading away his compass frees the zombies, who all have the same melting-licorice mouth and generally are just super-gross. When they start running around, it becomes apparent that they are actually ghosts — many of them don’t have legs, but they can still move quite quickly when they want to do a murder. Disney magic.
They also have ghost-birds, and a ghost-boat which can turn itself into a mouth and eat other boats, so they commence doing this to anyone and everyone out of spite. This is primarily so that other characters can say things like “Death has taken over the sea” every few minutes. Disney magic.
Henry (who wriggled out of his handcuffs earlier) locates Jack in jail and finds his drunken-idiot routine less than charming. He asks “Do you even have a ship? A crew? Pants?” Depp’s pants-less body is not, in my opinion, appropriate for a theme-park ride. Not Disney magic.
Still in jail, the pair meet Paul McCartney, who plays Jack’s uncle, also named Jack. He has a 20-second speaking role. Thank god I will be dead before Harry Styles gets to this point in his career. Not Disney magic.
A blood moon rises, making Carina’s magic diary glow, and it gives her a clue: “To command the power of the seas, all must divide.” Okay, sure. Disney magic.
Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush), who you may remember used to be a ghost pirate, in previous installments of the one and only film franchise based on a theme-park ride, is now a normal pirate. He has a sick manicure and is hanging out on a fancy boat, eating tiny bits of bright pink food with a pair of tweezers. His sidekicks have been recast. They’re like “the ghost boat is going to come eat us, what’s your idea?” Converging storylines = Disney magic.
In case you forgot, the British Empire is also involved in this movie. They hated Carina for being a witch, but they still have their own bald witch with lots of red-ink tattoos. Barbossa bribes someone so he can talk to her and she tells him, “The price for passing my door is blood.” This is foreshadowing. Disney magic.
She throws a rat in the fire and suggests that Barbossa just retire. If he’s not on a boat, his boat can’t get eaten by a boat-eating boat. Interesting idea, but he hates it. There’s nothing more gratifying and magical than keeping your hands and arms inside the boat at all times, as we learned from the safety guidelines at Disney’s best boat-themed attraction. Disney magic.
Barbossa takes Jack’s magic compass from the witch and says, “Time to make a deal with the dead.” I don’t feel like the witch did much here, but she looks cool. Walt Disney World has plenty of non-functional scene dressing, and that’s part of the experience. Disney magic.
Henry rescues Jack from a guillotine and Carina from being hung. Nice. Team up, let’s go. They all escape on a boat that, for some reason, needs to be driven into the sea on a set of wooden tracks. It’s a subtle but obvious reference to the tracks that move boats through the Magic Kingdom’s thrilling pirate ride. Disney magic.
It’s not obvious why Henry and Carina are prisoners, or why everyone is being so mean to each other. They all have different goals here, but none of them are in conflict. Much like a trip to a theme park, this could have been a nice little group outing, but everyone is insisting on bickering. Disney magic.
I don’t know if I’ve made it 100 percent clear yet, but the ghost boat literally turns into a gaping mouth with spiky wooden teeth when it approaches other boats. Anyway, the boat-mouth comes for Barbossa, and his big idea is to wait until he’s about to die and then say “Oh, are you lookin’ for Jack?” Licorice-Mouth is like “Yeah, babe, find him and I won’t kill you. We’re on the ocean. You have one day.” Disney magic.
Carina drew her star-map on the prison wall earlier. The “no man can read it” rule still applies, but the witch the British don’t kill for some reason is brought in to say, “Yes, this is the star map.” Nobody knows why this conversation is happening! Not Disney magic.
Meanwhile, Carina is bragging about how well she understands the star map. My calculations are precise and true,” she explains. Math is boring. Not Disney magic.
Jack teases Henry about having a crush on Carina. This makes no sense, considering that Henry and Carina have barely interacted. Personally, I’m busy wondering why there hasn’t been a good pub scene yet, with loud music and colorful bit characters. That is a key element in a theme-park ride I’ve been on two or three dozen times. Not Disney magic.
Finally, we get a flashback with voiceover narration, telling the story of Captain Salazar’s former life as a Spanish navy commander. He killed the captain of young Jack Sparrow’s pirate crew, so Jack did some crazy maneuvering to force Salazar to sink his ship in the haunted “Devil’s Triangle.” That made him a ghost. Also, his boat exploded in flames. It’s not explained how sinking into water would make something made out of wood explode into flames, but booming expository narration and an unnerving computer-generated teen Jack Sparrow are definitely in keeping with the spirit of modern Disney World. Disney magic.
As this little interlude wraps up, Barbossa and Salazar stumble upon Jack and friends — in the middle of the ocean. Small world! Disney magic.
Jack, Carina, and Henry run away in a rowboat, so Salazar sends the ghost-ship mascots out to bring them back. They are...
Oh hell yeah, Imagineers. The ghost sharks can fly, eat wood, kill people, and look awesome. One of them has a human tongue, because Disney imposes no limits on imagination. That’s kind of their thing. The ghost sharks rule. The other ghosts, we now learn, can run on top of water. Some of them have no arms or head-tops. It’s amazing, but not as amazing as the ghost sharks. None of these things occur in the Disney World ride, but thematically, I think we can agree, the surprise reveal of ghost sharks is… Disney magic.
One thing the ghosts can’t run on is land, so Jack, Carina, Henry, and Barbossa (who has decided to betray Licorice-Mouth) just stand on an island and talk about what to do next. They’re going to have to “race the dead” to get to the trident and break all the curses. You must know what’s coming…
It’s the fastest ship known to man. It’s the only ship everyone talks about constantly. It’s the name of the first movie in the first multi-film franchise based on a theme-park attraction. It is in Shrinky-Dink form in a glass bottle in Jack’s pocket. It’s The Black Pearl. Disney magic.
Barbossa stabs Jack in the pocket with a sword and The Black Pearl springs up like one of those shrink-wrapped washcloths. Disney magic.
Henry takes this opportunity to turn to Carina and say something to the effect of, “Hey, still think science is real?” Rude. Not Disney magic.
Carina, a woman, steers the ship. This is a real step up from the first movie, in which Keira Knightley’s character wasn’t even supposed to be on the ship at all due to the fact that she was a woman. In 1997, the Pirates of the Caribbean rides at Disney World and Disneyland were significantly revised to make them less sexist. Disney magic.
Carina takes out her diary, and Barbossa thinks, “Oh crap, I gave that diary to my daughter when I abandoned her… You are my daughter.” To be honest, this is the point where the movie jumps the shark a little bit. No offense intended to the ghost sharks, who rule. Not Disney magic.
Carina steers them to an island covered in rhinestones and declares it “a perfect reflection of the heavens.” The whole island is a map of the stars, which is nice to look at, even if it makes no sense at all. Disney magic.
The ruby from the cover of Carina’s diary is exactly the size and shape of the only missing star in the island-sized map. She puts the ruby in its place and says “The missing star. For my father,” to which Barbossa replies, “Yes, do it for him.” Shut up. Not Disney magic.
A big ol’ crack appears in the ocean, and suddenly everyone is in the underwater tomb of Poseidon. Disney magic.
Henry, who was previously kidnapped by the ghost pirates but I forgot about that part, is now going to be part of a plan. Salazar takes over his body, using a magical power that had not been previously established. Another ghost-pirate says “Are you sure? You’ll be trapped in his body forever.” Probably not, since Henry and Carina will likely have a Pirates spin-off series. It’s simply smart synergy for all the Pirates of the Caribbean theme-park rides of the world. Disney magic.
The new, slimy version of Henry tries to kill everyone, and things look bleak. Not Disney magic.
Carina mutters, “To command the power of the sea, all must divide,” somehow deducing that if she destroys the trident, it will break every ocean-related curse in the world. Disney magic.
She does it! Disney magic.
The crack in the ocean starts to close, with all of our beloved characters still inside. Not Disney magic.
Climbing up the Black Pearl’s anchor to safety, Carina notices that Barbossa has an arm tattoo of the star map, and pauses to ask “Who am I to you?” He replies, “Treasure.” This makes everyone in the theater laugh, including the children. Not Disney magic.
Barbossa jumps off the anchor to stab Licorice-Mouth (who is no longer a ghost, but somehow not dead either) and they both fall into the ocean. Everyone, including a small monkey, is really sad that Barbossa is dead. Okay, here is your one reminder that Barbossa menaced Henry’s mom in a sexual way in the first movie. Not Disney magic.
Carina is sad too, so she and Henry make out lightly in deference to her mourning. They’re in love now, and amped up because Henry broke Father’s Curse. Now he can finally take down that creepy poster. Disney magic.
Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley (she’s in this movie too!) are reunited, and they make out hard. It is PG, though. Disney magic.
Jack Sparrow leaves all of his new pals and sails away on The Black Pearl. In the end, it’s a pirate’s life for him. Disney magic.
I’m sorry that I didn’t stay for the big post-credits scene, but it’s my job to watch movies, not poorly disguised commercials for future movies. In any case, loosely inspired by the Disney ride, which empties out into a gift shop, my showing of Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales emptied out into a Dave & Busters. Disney magic.
Disney magic: 35
Not Disney magic: 21
The Pirates of the Caribbean franchise, while now a joke, is still a fascinating example of a very specific type of movie — the type that blends the most cynical elements of the film industry with the kind of unhinged optimism you only experience during an acid trip. Is basing a film series on a theme-park ride the surest bet in capitalism, or the stupidest, weirdest idea of all time? It turned out to be the former, but could just have easily been the latter. Disney put 50-year-old robot men with eye patches in one end of a sausage grinder, and pulled CGI ghost sharks out the other. It made such a bad movie — an overlong, tortured mess that pairs a played-out main character with every story trope and special effect the mind can fathom.
But does Dead Men Tell No Tales capture the magic of Disney’s Pirates of the Caribbean ride?
Yeah. You know? Sure.
Twitter is expanding its emoji lineup to include “all the new emoji” (aka Emoji 5.0), designer Bryan Haggerty announced via the site today. Sadly the update hasn’t rolled out to every user yet, and it’s worth double-checking that you have the latest updates to Twitter apps for your device of choice.
With the update, Twitter users will have access to more inclusive emoji options for gender and skin tones. Fittingly for Twitter, the update also includes some of the sassiest icons that exist: the raised eyebrow, the hand giggling emoji, and — my personal favorite — the shush emoji.
The best Twitter advice I’ve ever read is “never tweet,” but even I can’t resist the siren song of the 140-character missive. I’ve got a brand to build, people. But this mild little shusher is here to gently notify our friends, foes, and sometimes ourselves, saying “you’ve done a bad tweet. It’s time to step away.”
I think about this brilliant piece by Luke O’Neil on “the ratio” — how many likes or retweets you’re getting vs. straight up replies — several times a week. I wonder if we will see a new metric: how many people responded with “shush”?
So far I’ve been able to successfully deploy some choice icons — the barfing guy, the middle finger (oh boy, aren’t we all just so glad that exists on Twitter) in my natural skin tone, and the shusher — without problem.
We've just added all the new emojis to https://t.co/LOTAlBvtUR and updated our Twemoji open source repo    https://t.co/lD0IvE7ifj
According to Emojipedia, many of these emoji for this update “rely on characters which are part of Unicode 10.0. Some vendors now support this update, with the majority expected to have support by the end of 2017.”
Correction: This story previously stated that emoji were capable of throwing shade. The Verge was ruled incorrect in Shade Court. We plan to appeal.
Today, Facebook announced an update to its Trending Topics section that will make the list of news stories easier to parse on mobile with a more diverse list of sources. Now, when you click on a news topic from the search bar on an iPhone, you’ll get multiple stories from different outlets that can be swiped through in a carousel format, as well as the standard posts from friends and prominent celebrity and public figure pages you follow. The company plans to roll the redesign out to Android and desktop soon.
Facebook isn’t deciding which publications will be shown. The company spent a healthy chunk of last year tweaking Trending Topics after a controversy over liberal bias, which sparked fierce debates about Facebook’s editorial influence in the run up to the US election.
After firing the human curators who oversaw story selection and watering down the Trending list to a regional list of popular subjects, Facebook seems to have found an equilibrium. (The company still appears reluctant to admit any part of it resembles a media company.) So the new update will simply show “some of the most popular stories about that topic on Facebook,” the company’s blog post reads.
“Facebook says stories are determined the same way as the featured headline — using a combination of factors including the engagement around the article on Facebook, the engagement around the publisher overall, and whether other articles are linking to it,” writes Facebook product manager Ali Ahmadi and designer John Angelo. “By making it easier to see what other news outlets are saying about each topic, we hope that people will feel more informed about the news in their region.”
Another change to Trending Topics on mobile includes a new top list of stories that will display the three most talked-about subjects on Facebook in your geographical region right in the News Feed. This is just a test for now, and Facebook won’t say if it will make its way to the wider user base. “While most people will not see Trending in their News Feed as part of this small test, we hope that it will help us learn how to make Trending as useful and informative for people as possible,” Ahmadi and Angelo write. “If you do see the Trending unit in your News Feed, you have the option to remove it in the drop-down menu which will prevent it from being shown to you in the future.”
I don’t like going to hospitals. I’m always wondering about what kind of bacteria are floating around and what pathogens I’m going to pick up. Well, my abstract fears have just gotten a little bit more real. A new study shows what kinds of organisms you encounter in hospitals — and how patients and the hospital rooms they’re in exchange these organisms with one another.
Researchers took thousands of samples from a hospital in Chicago for two months before it opened and for 10 months afterward. They swabbed floors, bedrails, pagers, and cellphones, as well as patients’ noses, hands, and armpits. They saw that the microbes changed dramatically after the hospital became operational. Patients picked up organisms already present in their rooms before their arrival, but over time, their own microbes took over. More bacteria were also being exchanged during the summer, and after months of the hospital running, more invasive organisms that might be antibiotic resistant were detected.
The findings, published today in Science Translational Medicine, show how microbial communities evolve in hospitals. That information could one day be used to build better health care facilities to try to avoid hospital-acquired infections. “We can now use this to design the most accurate intervention possible,” says study co-author Jack Gilbert, a microbial ecologist and professor of surgery at the University of Chicago.
All of us are home to billions of bacteria, viruses, and fungi that live on our skin and inside our bodies — collectively called the microbiome. A building or place — like your office or house — has a microbiome, too. And like it or not, you’re constantly picking up microbes from the places you visit, and vice versa. We constantly shed skin and microbes from our bodies. This interaction can affect our health, and we’re just starting to understand how it all works.
Previous studies have looked at the microbiome of office spaces, as well as homes. But Gilbert says he wanted to look at the evolving microbiome of hospitals — and he had a unique opportunity that couldn’t be wasted. A new hospital was being built at the University of Chicago, and that gave his team the opportunity to analyze the organisms living in the facility before it opened, and how they changed after patients started coming in. “We got very lucky,” Gilbert says.
Starting in January 2013, he and his team began taking microbial samples of floors, countertops, computer mice, and phones. After the hospital became operational in late February 2013, they kept collecting samples — swabbing floors, bedrails, and people’s hands, noses, and armpits, for 10 months. Overall, they collected 6,523 samples in 10 patient rooms and two nurse stations on two floors. They also monitored the place’s humidity, temperature, and ventilation.
“We were able to build a very detailed map — a cartography if you will — of this new hospital environment and the role of the hospital itself in the transmission of microbes and how microbes were shaped by that environment,” Gilbert says.
Within 24 hours of the hospital’s opening, the bacteria and organisms changed dramatically, Gilbert says. Before patients moved in, the hospital was filled with “very hardy bugs” that were used to living in an environment where they were constantly purged and cleaned. But after patients moved in, they were almost completely swapped out by human skin bacteria, Gilbert says. Among them were Staphylococcus epidermidis, a skin colonizer that’s usually harmless, and Staphylococcus aureus, another bacterium found in the nose and skin that can cause food poisoning.
“People were shedding a ton of bugs into this environment,” he says. “It was like a microbial flood, entering into the hospital as the patients started to use this place.”
But the microbial exchange went both ways. Patients also picked up microbes already present in the rooms before their stay. In fact, the researchers were able to detect organisms left behind by a previous patient on the skin and inside the nose of the new patient — despite the fact that the rooms were cleaned in between stays. This sort of microbial transmission was known for years, Gilbert says, but “we didn’t know it was quite this prevalent.”
The researchers also saw that microbes were exchanged more easily during the summer months, possibly because of increased humidity. The diversity of a patient’s skin microbes didn’t change significantly based on whether the patient was undergoing chemotherapy, recovering from surgery, or taking antibiotics. Also, toward the end of the 10 months, the researchers began detecting organisms that had antibiotic-resistant genes and genes that boost the ability of these bugs to colonize human tissues. That could be because hospitals are constantly cleaned and people are taking antibiotics, so organisms evolve so that they’re “very well adapted to the constant stress of that environment,” Gilbert says.
The study has some limitations. It’s only an “observational” study, meaning it shows that people’s microbiome changed in a hospital, but it doesn’t allow researchers to draw a connection between, say, a microbe a patient picked up in a room and a health condition that person developed. Same goes for the organisms with the antibiotic-resistant genes the researchers detected: we don’t actually know if those organisms could have caused a drug-resistant infection.
Still, the findings make total sense and the research is important, says James Meadow, a senior data scientist at Cogitativo, who’s done microbiome research for a decade and was not part of the research. “I really like science like this where we just assume, yeah, I’m sure we give bacteria off to the room around us and I’m sure we get bacteria from the room around us,” Meadow says, “but it’s really important to actually go in and test these assumptions to make sure they’re right.”
In the future, this information could be used to make better hospitals where the risks of getting infections are reduced. In 2011, there were an estimated 722,000 hospital-acquired infections in the US, and about 75,000 patients died during their hospitalization, according to a 2014 survey. Understanding how microbial communities change in health care facilities, and how microbes are exchanged, is a step forward in finding a solution, Meadow says.
Next, Gilbert would like to get even more detailed information tracking where patients go in a hospital, and how that movement affects the number and type of microbes exchanged. I’m just afraid that after that data comes out, I won’t step into a hospital ever again. With bacteria and bugs, sometimes I just don’t want to know.
For fans, the Far Cry series is known for beautiful sprawling locales, heavy weapons, and strong voice acting performances. But it’s also notorious for continually sending players to “exotic” nations, and encouraging them to murder the local people of color. Previous settings include the islands of the South Pacific, an unnamed African country, an Asian-Pacific archipelago, and a fictional country tucked into the Himalayas. Far Cry 5 will be presented next month at the annual E3 game conference, but a piece of key art, released today, shows that Ubisoft intends to invert that controversy, moving the series to the USA.
Far Cry 5 is set in a Montana county, and its lead enemies, judging from the key art, are a band of white Americans. The image is a loaded collision of violence, religion, and politics. The band of rural Americans, sporting unkempt beards and wool button-downs, while wielding magnums and bowie knives, re-create the tableau of da Vinci’s The Last Supper. On the table rests iconography of rural Americana: a freshly baked pie, a glass jug, an empty beer bottle, a raw steak, and an American flag — the stars replaced with a variation on the Iron Cross, known best as a German military medal used during the World Wars. In the foreground is a bound prisoner, “SINNER” painted onto his back; in the background stands a chapel, draped with the same variation on the Iron Cross.
(Yan Kuzovlev notes on Twitter the symbol resembles a squat version of the cross of Scientology. The blue tone of the chapel resembles the color of the church’s headquarters in Los Angeles. That could be read as further commentary. As Polygon explains, Far Cry 5 tells the story of a Christian cult.)
The image calls to mind the 2016 occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Range, in which armed militants in cowboy hats and rugged button-downs seized the headquarters of the park located in Harney County, Oregon. Though it’s likely work began on Far Cry 5 before the incident, as video games takes years to conceptualize, greenlight, and develop.
The significance of the game using white, non-military Americans as villains extends beyond the Far Cry franchise. Other than the Grand Theft Auto and Postal series, very few medium-to-large budget video games have used American citizens as lethal targets. Like the action movies of the 1980s, most video games have defaulted to “non-controversial” fodder, like Nazis, indistinctly “foreign” terrorists, robots, aliens, zombies, and, of course, Nazi zombies. Even fewer games have specified a certain type of American as an enemy, preferring to paint with a broad and less controversial brush.
But a shift has taken place over the past year. Resident Evil 7 sets its hero against a pseudo-zombified white family in the American bayou, while Outlast 2 draws horror from an American religious cult. Mafia 3 follows Lincoln Clay, a mixed-raced Vietnam vet, who takes revenge on the Italian mob in 1970s Louisiana after the assassination of his father figure, the leader of the black mob. And an episode of Hitman, called “Freedom Fighters,” has the titular killer assassinating targets on a Colorado compound that seemed to take at least some inspiration from the real-world incident in Harney County.
But Far Cry 5, should it commit to the direction the key art suggests, will be the biggest and most aggressive game to adjust the sights of the first-person shooter genre against people in the United States. Its enemies aren’t zombies, nor are they singular targets that require skill to kill. The series is built around its lead killing hundreds of enemies in a single playthrough.
Far Cry 5 has with a single image show its intentions to course-correct. And in doing so, it may find itself in a controversy — this time from the opposing side of the political spectrum.
An important piece of information is still unknown: who will the player play as? The moral complexity of previous Far Cry games was impacted, partly, by the identity of the protagonist. The player selected the lead from a pool of characters with different ethnicities in Far Cry 2, while Far Cry 3 featured an extreme sports-loving, young, white man as the hero who slaughters islanders, while getting marked with mystical tribal tattoos. Far Cry 4’s hero was returning to his homeland to spread the ashes of his deceased mother before being looped into the nation’s civil war. The character at the center of Far Cry 5 will be the lens through which we see its villains.
But the art alone has already upset some fans. On the forum Politically Incorrect forum at 4chan, one commenter writes, “Sweet. If that is the plot I can find out who make FarCry game and NEVER FUCKING BUY ONE OF THEIR GAMES AGAIN.” Another writes, “Making the white people look evil. Getting fucking sick of this shit. You want us to become evil. We sure as fuck will.” Another goes further: “I hope they at least give us an ******evil ******* so that I can have the option to join them. If that were the case I would gladly pay $70 dollars to have a degenerate-hunter simulator.”
It’s still unclear how Far Cry 5 will deliver upon its formula of beautiful settings and deadly guns. The game promises a conversation about violence in video games, and why it became acceptable to murder virtual versions of one group of people, but not another.





Polar’s latest fitness tracker is the A370, and like the company’s other wearables, it’s capable of fitness tracking, heart rate monitoring, and sleep tracking. In an upgrade from the previous model A360, which only took heart rate readings during active exercise, the A370 continuously senses your heart rate every five minutes.
And... that’s basically the update. Otherwise, it’s a pretty well-rounded fitness band — it can track workouts, inform you of notifications from your connected phone, and hook up to Polar’s other fitness accessories like standalone heart rate bands and scales to loop in additional information into your fitness routine.
The A370 is available for preorder now for $179, $20 cheaper than the old A360.
We’re only a few short months away from the return of Game of Thrones, and after months of speculation and teasers, HBO has finally released a full trailer showing off some of what we can expect from the new season.
Related
In short: Queen Cersei is rallying troops for battle, Jon Snow is preparing for war in the North, and of course, Daenerys and her dragons are finally making their way back to Westeros with an eye on the Iron Throne.
Game of Thrones is set to return for its seventh season on July 16th on HBO.
For the last few years, the US military has been looking to make an entirely new hypersonic spaceplane — one that can be reused frequently over a short period of time to deliver multiple satellites into orbit. And now the Department of Defense has picked Boeing to turn that spaceplane into a reality. DARPA, the agency that tests new advanced technologies for the military, has picked Boeing’s design concept, called the Phantom Express, to move forward as part of the agency’s Experimental Spaceplane (XS-1) program. That means DARPA will work together with Boeing to build and test out the company’s vehicle.
The goal of DARPA’s XS-1 program is to create a spacecraft that’s something of a hybrid between an airplane and a traditional vertical rocket. The spaceplane is meant to take off vertically and fly uncrewed to high altitudes above Earth. From there, the vehicle will release a mini-rocket — a booster with an engine that can propel a satellite weighing up to 3,000 pounds into orbit. As the booster deploys the satellite, the spaceplane will then land back on Earth horizontally just like a normal airplane — and then be fueled up for its next mission. DARPA wants the turnaround time between flights to last just a few hours.
But perhaps the most audacious goal is the price DARPA wants for each flight. The agency is aiming for the spaceplane to cost $5 million per mission, a significant bargain considering most orbital rockets cost tens to hundreds of millions of dollars to launch. And Boeing says it’s up to the task. “Phantom Express is designed to disrupt and transform the satellite launch process as we know it today, creating a new, on-demand space-launch capability that can be achieved more affordably and with less risk,” Darryl Davis, president of Boeing Phantom Works, said in a statement.
Boeing was one of three companies vying for the chance to build a spaceplane for XS-1. The other two contenders included Northrop Grumman Corporation and Masten Space Systems. The three companies had all been awarded contracts through Phase 1 of the XS-1 program to determine the feasibility and methods needed to make such a frequently reused spaceplane possible. The three companies each paired up with a commercial launch provider to come up with their designs: Northrop paired with Virgin Galactic, Masten with XCOR Aerospace, and Boeing with Jeff Bezos’ company Blue Origin.
Though it looks like Boeing has decided to go with a different company to make the propulsion system for its spaceplane. The vehicle will use an AR-22 engine, manufactured by Aerojet Rocketdyne, instead of an engine from Blue Origin. The AR-22 is roughly the same type of engine used to power the Space Shuttle, according to Aerojet. “This engine has a demonstrated track record of solid performance and proven reusability,” Eileen Drake, president and CEO of Aerojet Rocketdyne, said in a statement.
Now that Boeing has been selected by DARPA, the company is moving forward into Phase 2 and Phase 3 of the XS-1 program. Phase 2 includes the manufacture and testing of the vehicle’s technologies on the ground through 2019. In Phase 3, which is suppose to begin in 2020, the spaceplane will do 12 to 15 flight tests. A big objective of this phase is to fly the plane 10 times over a 10-day period, to demonstrate that the vehicle can do quick turnarounds. The first of these flights won’t include payloads, but the spaceplane will eventually test out sending payloads weighing 900 and 3,000 pounds into lower Earth orbit.
DARPA says the XS-1 will meet a critical need for the military by decreasing the amount of time it takes to get a satellite into orbit. That could be important if the US needs to get a satellite up in a pinch, perhaps if a crucial satellite in space is suddenly lost. But DARPA also hopes that the technologies created through the XS-1 program will eventually be adopted by the commercial spaceflight industry, to make getting satellites to space a potentially faster and cheaper endeavor.
“We’re delighted to see this truly futuristic capability coming closer to reality,” Brad Tousley, director of DARPA’s Tactical Technology Office (TTO), which oversees XS-1, said in a statement. “Demonstration of aircraft-like, on-demand, and routine access to space is important for meeting critical Defense Department needs and could help open the door to a range of next-generation commercial opportunities.”
Last week, Amazon gave Chicago Bulls shooting guard Dwyane Wade his own boutique of sorts. “Bringing my style game to @amazonfashion with my own online store,” said Wade in an Instagram post blasted to his 9.2M followers. Wade’s Amazon hub houses a suite of brands he’s collaborated with — Mission activewear, Stance socks, Tie Bar accessories — as well as his own sneaker label, Way of Wade. It doesn’t sound revolutionary, but creating a shop strictly made up of one celebrity’s brands is pretty unique — and for Amazon Fashion, it’s really, really smart.
Fashion is a huge focus for Amazon, as it looks to become, in its own words, “the best place to buy fashion online.” Retail analysts and fashion industry veterans have been doubtful of Amazon’s ability to seduce the fashion customer, because, well, nothing about Amazon is very fashion. “Its front-end experience is not currently optimised for merchandising emotional products, while its association with discounting turns off luxury brands,” wrote Richie Siegel for Business of Fashion. “Although practical items like socks and trainers might be top sellers on Amazon, many still question whether the site will ever be capable of conjuring the dream required to sell thousand dollar dresses and bags.”
A Gucci bag on Amazon Fashion vs. Net-a-Porter, the leader in luxury fashion e-commerce.
Emotion is the essential differentiator between slinging apparel (which Amazon is pretty good at) and selling fashion (which Amazon is not yet very good at). Think of it like this: apparel is utilitarian problem solving (“I need socks”), while fashion is subjective self-expression (“I need to look good for this job interview”). Wade brings an emotional bond he’s developed with his fans over his years-long career, as well as his reputation as a stylish guy. The store’s landing page also shows that Amazon is catching on: it’s uncluttered, the photography is rich, and the product mix is focused. It’s a sign that Amazon might be able to do this fashion thing after all.
Making the leap from apparel to fashion would be a boon to Amazon’s bottom line. “Amazon’s interest in fashion e-commerce is undoubtedly driven by the nearly $300 billion in US revenue,” Ken Cassar, principal analyst at Slice Intelligence, tells The Verge, noting that apparel is one of the biggest US retail categories. “Fashion merchandise typically is a highly profitable category,” adds Manik Aryapadi, a principal in the retail division of consulting firm A.T. Kearney. Ed Yruma, an analyst with KeyBanc Capital, estimates the boost in profits from apparel sales could add 25 cents to Amazon’s earnings per share in 2017.
Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos isn’t afraid to play the long game when conquering a new market. The company has been flirting with fashion since at least 2006, when it acquired multi-brand womenswear e-tailer Shopbop. In subsequent years, it has worked to align itself with highly visible fashion industry events, sponsoring a Costume Institute exhibition in 2012 and the 2015 launch of New York Fashion Week: Men’s. It also sponsors two international fashion weeks, which now bear the brand’s name in their official titles: Amazon India Fashion Week and Amazon Fashion Week Tokyo.
But 2017 is the year Amazon Fashion is really beginning to strike. At the beginning of the year, Amazon quietly launched seven private label apparel brands, with most SKUs in men’s accessories, women’s dresses, and handbags. In April, it added its own lingerie line with cut-rate prices. Most recently, it announced an extension of its Alexa-enabled Echo product line specifically designed to take outfit photos and give style feedback. Farther behind the scenes, the company is investing in its own fully automated clothing factory, a shipping company (code name: Dragon Boat), and physical stores.
Customers have certainly shown they’re willing to buy clothes from Amazon: in 2016, Amazon registered the most apparel sales of any online retailer in the US for those 18–34, claiming more than double the market share of Nordstrom, which came in second place. Shoppers surveyed in an October 2016 report by Cowen & Co. said Amazon Prime was the main draw to purchasing apparel on the site, followed by high marks for convenience, customer service, and reviews. The Cowen study reported Amazon held 6.6 percent of the apparel market when it was published, projecting 8.2 percent in 2017, and 16.2 percent by 2021, with an estimated $62 billion in annual apparel sales, followed by TJ Maxx and Macy’s. “Amazon is more than capable of becoming the biggest retailer of apparel made by other brands,” Cassar says. “In fact it will probably accomplish that in 2017.” Still, he is doubtful about Amazon’s ability to bring the success it’s seen with apparel into fashion. “I do not believe that Amazon is capable of establishing a strong enough emotional connection with consumers to be a leading fashion brand itself.”
Aryapadi has identified three major points Amazon needs to hit in order to become a true fashion powerhouse. “First, Amazon will need to hire top design/creative talent, and give them artistic freedom to experiment and bring uniqueness to the assortment, not ‘more of the same,’” he says, adding that consumers (especially millennials) want distinct and unique merchandise. Second, he stressed that Amazon needs to offer merchandise at different price points. “Amazon’s cachet has always been value-driven price points,” he notes, but “having a luxury/premium label creates a halo and an aspirational effect.” Lastly, Aryapadi argues that the online retailer needs to go deeper with offline engagement. Yep: real stores. “As retail brick and mortar evolves, physical stores will serve as playgrounds for the brand,” he explains, “where consumers experience the brand and develop an emotional connection.” Opening stores in fashion-forward cities like New York City or Paris, he suggests, “can help Amazon build credibility in the fashion space.”
Josh Shaw, founder and CEO of Mission, one of the brands involved in the Dwyane Wade shop, is aware that the project signals a necessary shift in Amazon’s approach to fashion, and is enthusiastic about it. “People’s impressions of Amazon are going to change,” he says. “Amazon Fashion, a year ago people looked at it and said, ‘Yeah, good luck,’” Shaw says. “They should not have second-guessed them, because anything Amazon puts their mind to, they’re very successful.”
Last week, the Federal Communications Commission voted to start a proceeding to repeal the 2015 network neutrality rules and the legal authority underlying it, Title II of the Communications Act of 1934. The rules ensure that internet users can access the online content and services of their choosing without interference from ISPs like Comcast, AT&T, Verizon, and Charter.
Yesterday the FCC made its final proposal to repeal the rules public. This document, known as a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, or NPRM, is nearly identical to the draft Chairman Ajit Pai made public on April 27th. The NPRM starts the official period for public comment on the FCC’s proposal — comments are due on July 17th, and reply comments are due on August 16th. If you’ve already filed a comment, don’t worry — those count just as much as comments filed during the “official” comment period.
Normally, the purpose of an NPRM is to provide an agency with a record so that it can decide whether and how to regulate. But the net neutrality repeal NPRM leaves little doubt that this FCC is intent on completely abdicating its role in overseeing broadband internet access.
The first half of the NPRM sets out the FCC majority’s proposal for reversing classification of broadband internet access services as “telecommunications services” governed by Title II of the Communications Act. Among other things, this section discusses the effect this reversal would have on the FCC’s ability to enforce its privacy laws and implement its Lifeline program, which provides a subsidy to low-income households for broadband.
The second half purports to “re-evaluate” the existing net neutrality rules, the mechanisms that enforce them and any legal authority (other than Title II) that could be used to support them. The FCC majority proposes to eliminate the “general conduct standard,” which prohibits ISP practices that “unreasonably interfere or unreasonably disadvantage” the ability of consumers to access the online content and services of their choosing, and the ability of online content and service providers to freely access customers. With regard to the remaining rules (no blocking, no throttling, no paid prioritization, transparency), the majority doesn’t make firm proposals on whether to retain or repeal them. Instead, it asks questions about whether the rules are even necessary.
The NPRM makes very clear the FCC majority’s distaste for the 2015 decision to reclassify both fixed and mobile broadband internet access services as telecommunications services under Title II, saying, among other things, that it “put at risk online investment and innovation, threatening the very open Internet it purported to preserve.”
The FCC majority makes three arguments in support of its proposal to reverse the 2015 classification decision:
The NPRM asks about some aspects of the proposal to reclassify broadband internet access providers, but the leading questions it asks make the ultimate outcome clear.
For example, the NPRM asks about ways in which consumers were harmed prior to the 2015 decision, referring to “only four articulated examples” of harm from discriminatory ISP actions. The NPRM then asks: “Do these isolated examples justify the regulatory shift that Title II reclassification entailed? Do such isolated examples constitute market failure sufficient to warrant pre-emptive, industry-wide regulation?” These inquiries are hardly objective.
The NPRM first proposes to eliminate the general conduct standard, which ensures protection from discriminatory conduct not captured by the other bright line rules, including new practices in which an ISP might engage in the future. Making clear its intentions, the FCC majority “seek[s] comment on whether eliminating this vague standard will spur innovation and benefit consumers.” Importantly, the majority proposes “not to adopt any alternatives” to the rule.
With regard to the basic rules of net neutrality — no blocking, no throttling, no paid prioritization and transparency — the NPRM asks the same general question: are they necessary? Here again, the text of the NPRM and leading questions reveal the majority’s preference: to have no net neutrality rules at all. For example, the NPRM asks:
whether…regulatory intervention in the market is necessary in the broadband context. Beyond the few scattered anecdotes cited in the Title II Order have there been additional, concrete incidents that threaten the four Internet Freedoms sufficient to warrant adopting across-the-board rules?  Is there any evidence of market failure, or is there likely to be, sufficient to warrant pre-emptive, comprehensive regulation?
If there was any question that the FCC majority has no intention of retaining or replacing any of the current net neutrality rules, the NPRM’s discussion of other possible sources of legal authority for future rules leaves no doubt. Put simply, the majority doesn’t think such authority exists.
Most telling is the NPRM’s discussion of the most likely source of authority, Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. Section 706 requires the FCC to 1) encourage deployment of broadband “on a reasonable and timely basis” by utilizing a number of different regulatory mechanisms, and 2) eliminate barriers to broadband deployment if it finds broadband is not being deployed on a reasonable and timely basis.
While the federal courts on several occasions have upheld Section 706 as an independent grant of legal authority for certain broadband rules (for example, rules that require mobile wireless providers to enter into data roaming agreements), the majority asks if “better reading” of the law is that the language is not a grant of authority but merely “hortatory” (encouraging). It appears the majority intends to adopt an interpretation of Section 706 that would render it largely useless, leaving the FCC without any ability whatsoever to oversee the broadband market.
The discussion of the impact of reclassification on privacy and Lifeline is brief. The majority recognizes that its proposal would strip the FCC of any ability to adopt rules to protect consumers’ broadband privacy, but it is content to cede that authority to the Federal Trade Commission. The FTC, as I’ve written about previously, can only enforce its governing laws — it can’t adopt rules to protect consumers before they’re harmed.
The majority also concludes without much discussion that its ability to support broadband with Lifeline funds is not jeopardized. Not that it would care much if Lifeline was endangered — Chairman Pai has made clear in word and deed that he dislikes the program. Interestingly, the NPRM does not ask whether the universal service program that provides subsidies to rural ISPs would be at risk under the majority’s proposal. The chairman has made providing such subsidies a cornerstone of his FCC agenda.
I’ve painted a bleak picture of the NPRM and the outcome its authors are driving toward. But that should not discourage you or anyone who cares about the future of an open internet. The publication of the final NPRM restarts the comment period and it’s imperative that everyone who wants to preserve net neutrality leave a comment. You can do so here and here. Jake Kastrenakes gives you the step-by-step here.
If you can, you should address some of the issues I’ve raised. If you can’t and just want to tell the FCC why you think the 2015 rules and Title II classification should be preserved, that’s great, too. If you have the time, send your comment to your member of Congress and your senators, or just call their offices.
Already over 2 million comments have been filed in the net neutrality proceeding, and the vast majority of those comments support the 2015 rules. Your participation will demonstrate to the FCC and your elected representatives in Congress that you and millions of other Americans care deeply about this issue. In light of the continued uproar over Congress’ repeal of the FCC’s 2016 broadband privacy rules, enormous public opposition to repeal of the net neutrality rules should give policymakers pause before stripping internet users of yet another important protection.




"Vroom vroom" is a special sound only cars make, but now you can hear it every time your laptop boots up if you buy this new Mercedes-Benz special edition Vaio Z for the Japanese market. To make sure you grabbed the correct Vaio Z, the one that's only for car lovers and makes car noises, there's a picture of a car on the lid, a Mercedes logo on the trackpad, and a few other hidden Mercedes logos elsewhere on the laptop that probably only people who saw The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift in theaters will ever find.
Here’s the boot-up sound, in case you were curious. I was not disappointed about how it sounds like a car.
Otherwise this laptop is just last year's convertible Vaio Z Flip, with the same specs and an inflated price tag: it's 250,000 yen (about $2,239 US) for the Core i7 model. There are two looks to choose from: one featuring the Vision Tokyo concept car, and the other featuring a classic 300SL. Thankfully, for us slowpokes who don't understand, you can still buy a car-free Core i7 Z Flip for $1,299 at the Microsoft Store, as Liliputing points out.

Michael Crichton passed away in 2008, but his work has only become more popular since. A revival of his Jurassic Park franchise broke global box office records, while the HBO adaptation of his original film Westworld became one of 2016’s most exhaustively discussed TV shows. Until this month, Crichton’s work has lived on as inspiration. That changes with Dragon Teeth, one of the author’s unfinished novels, which was published by his estate this month. A fun thriller that echoes Crighton’s catalog, Dragon Teeth also shows the pitfalls of rooting around a deceased author’s papers for new hits.
On paper, the book sounds like a blockbuster. Set in 1876, the novel follows a wealthy college student named William Johnson, who heads off to the American West with Professor Othniel Marsh to dig up dinosaurs. It’s a dangerous expedition: the US Army is waging a brutal war against the area’s native tribes in the area, while prospectors and outlaws have taken to shooting anyone the deem suspect. Worse, Professor Marsh is engaged in his own contentious battle with a rival paleontologist, Edward Cope.
Cope and Marsh were actual historical figures, and the afterword to this novel explains that much of the story drew extensively from real events. The so-called Bones Wars saw an intense rivalry between the two scientists; both tried to use disinformation, bribes, and outright violence to best the other.
Crichton inserts the entirely fictional Johnson into this drama as a means to comment on the Cope and Marsh rivalry. His introduction — a description of two contrasting photographs — is classic Crichton masculinity.
“As he appears in an early photograph, William Johnson is a handsome young man with a crooked smile and a naive grin....a later photograph marked ‘Cheyenne, Wyoming, 1876,’ shows Johnson quite differently. His mouth is framed by a full mustache; his body is harder and enlarged by use; his jaw is set; he stands confidently with shoulders squared and feet wide.”
The novel outlines happens between those two images. We follow Johnson as he signs on with Marsh’s expedition, goes West, is recruited by Cope for his expedition, tangles with native tribes, outlaws, and miners, all as the scientists make some incredible discoveries in the rocky slopes of the Montana Badlands. Along the way, he goes from a soft rich kid to a tough, experienced explorer.
This book feels comfortingly familiar. There are dinosaurs, high-stakes action, and more than a little deliberation about how scientific progress is changing humanity’s understanding of the world around us. While Crichton is best known for his techno-thrillers such as Jurassic Park, Timeline, or Sphere, this feels more like his period-set Great Train Robbery or Pirate Latitudes.
However, Dragon Teeth isn’t likely going to end up on the list of the best Crichton novels. While the book presents a fun collection of scenes and action that briskly carries the reader along, the story never quite clicks. All the parts are there, but when combined, it feels like a raw, somewhat unfinished manuscript. Perhaps this is because, in some ways, it is.
The story meanders, characters are introduced and dropped without notice, and Johnson’s journey feels surface deep. It’s a solid draft, but there’s a reason this particular story wasn’t published in the first place. And so Dragon Teeth feels a bit like a ghost of the author’s best works.
The publishing of Dragon Teeth also raises a familiar ethical question: should a deceased author’s unfinished stories see the light of day? After his death in 2008, Crichton left behind a huge collection of papers, and Dragon Teeth is the third such posthumous novel released since 2008. Micro which was completed by The Hot Zone author Richard Preston came out in 2011, while Pirate Latitudes came out in 2009.
It’s easy to see why these books made it to market: Crichton is a reliable success in bookstores, and adaptations of his work have performed exceptionally in the past. But Dragon Teeth and the other posthumous books feel like a rushed attempt to capitalize on the Crichton Brand, and none have really captured the glory of the author at his best.
Where books like Jurassic Park or Timeline were memorable reads, there’s not really anything in Dragon Teeth that will make it an enduring Crichton story. It is, at best, a fun beach read, one that likely won’t tarnish the late author’s reputation. But it won’t advance it, either.
If you’re looking to run two 4K displays side by side, Elgato’s new Thunderbolt 3 Dock may be the solution for you. The $299 dock comes with two USB-C ports, two USB 3.0 ports, a DisplayPort, and an Ethernet port for the Wi-Fi adverse.
You can charge your laptop over USB-C and run two 4K monitors at 60Hz using the extra USB-C port and the DisplayPort, and keep your devices fully charged (unless you have a newer smartphone with USB-C, then you’ll need an adapter). At $300 it’s definitely pricey, but the Elgato Thunderbolt 3 Dock may be worth it if you need the screen real estate. The dock will be available on June 6th on Amazon.
Intel is planning to get rid of the royalties it charges third-party chipmakers that use its Thunderbolt 3 specification sometime next year, according to a report from Wired, which could make it easier for hardware manufacturers to use Intel’s data transfer specification.
USB-C is a complicated specification — just because a port is physically a USB-C port, doesn’t mean it’s got the same technology driving it on the inside. One of those standards is Intel’s Thunderbolt 3, the current generation of Intel’s ultra-fast data transfer system, which switched from using the Mini DisplayPort connection to USB-C.
Thunderbolt 3 is one of the most versatile USB-C solutions out there, with fast speeds and charging, but Intel’s licensing fees also meant that its more expensive to use. By opening up the protocol, Intel hopes to encourage “broader adoption in the ecosystem, with a lot of different peripherals and other devices,” Jason Ziller, who leads Intel’s Thunderbolt development, tells Wired. Intel is also reportedly working to integrate Thunderbolt 3 into future CPUs, which should also help adoption.
Over the last six months, the biggest trend in the drone industry has been shrinking the size of the units to make them more portable and accessible. Today DJI unveiled its latest aircraft, the Spark, a mini drone that weighs in at less than a single pound (0.6 pounds, to be exact). But just as it did with the Mavic Pro, the company has managed to squeeze a ton of powerful features into this small package.
DJI's new drone - the spark - is here. Size and weight of a soda can pic.twitter.com/FibZt01V20
Along with its form factor, the other thing DJI managed to shrink on this unit was the price. Until now, every new unit the company released has started close to $1,000. The Spark will cost just $499, putting it up against cheaper units from Parrot, Yuneec, and ZeroTech.
The Spark will have an intelligent fight controls like ActiveTrack and TapFly, which were present in DJI’s premium Phantom 4 drone. You can use gesture control to maneuver the drone in any direction, Jedi-style, or use a smartphone to control it up to 109 yards away. Battery life clocks in at 16 minutes of flight time on a single charge, but you can charge on the go with a Micro USB. DJI will be selling an accessories package that includes a charging hub, propeller guards, an extra battery you can swap out from the Spark, a remote control, and more for an additional $200.
Spark’s camera is supported by a two-axis gimbal and can capture 1080p video and 12-megapixel still photos. A new feature called QuickShot lets the drone shoot one minute of footage and edit it down to 10 seconds for you to share. The Spark has onboard sensors that allow it to dodge obstacles, with the drone’s top speed maxing out at 31 miles per hour.
It will be available in five colors: Alpine White, Sky Blue, Meadow Green, Lava Red, and Sunrise Yellow. DJI is expected to ship the Spark on June 15th: you can preorder here.
You can watch a hands-on of the DJI Spark via YouTube blogger Julien Solomita below:
The original plan for Roborace, the world’s first racing series for self-driving cars, was to have 20 of its fantastically futuristic vehicles compete against each other before each race in Formula E’s third season. Teams of engineers would program the cars, (all provided by the series) and the algorithms in their computer brains with slightly different takes on how and when to be aggressive on a racetrack.
The thing is, that hasn’t happened yet. But this past weekend in Paris, with six races to go, the self-driving electric Robocar finally took a lap.
Roborace has had its own film crew documenting the ups and downs (but mostly the ups) of the project. The first piece they’ve produced about Saturday’s feat can be seen above for the first time anywhere.
Unfortunately, it doesn’t give us a very good look at the car’s slow crawl around the Paris streets. Luckily though, smartphones exist.
Congratulations @roborace !   #fia #FormulaE #ParisEprix #robocar pic.twitter.com/zEDFKxanCV
Out at #ParisEPrix today, watching @roborace's Robocar take to the track for the first time   pic.twitter.com/dTfjBLVAji
La voiture sans pilote #roborace #formulae #pariseprix pic.twitter.com/v1ozxTl5dr
Ondertussen is de Roborace auto al minuten bezig om een bocht te nemen... pic.twitter.com/37fUhrrgOQ
Roborace is on track!!! #FormulaE pic.twitter.com/P7o7Bj3L9X
That Roborace finally got its production racecar around parts of a real race circuit at a pace faster than a walk seems like an accomplishment to me, even if it stopped a few times to get its bearings. (It’s also still a pretty far cry from Audi getting an autonomous RS7 to lap Hockenheimring in 2014, even though the German company didn’t have to build that car from scratch.)
But to Roborace’s credit, the development cars it had been testing set a pretty high bar for the Robocar. Over the last few months they raced, dueled, and yes, crashed. They hit 115 miles per hour while doing all of that, too. The Robocar and its NVIDIA-powered brain supposedly has a top speed of 199 miles per hour. Here’s hoping we see a glimpse of that sometime before the Formula E season ends in July. Because then we can finally start to figure out if anyone wants to watch.
What exactly is the web? It seems like a stupid question because we all know the answer: the web is the thing Tim Berners-Lee invented in 1989. It's not the same thing as "the internet," which is what we use to access the web, apps, and streaming video. It's what we visit every day with our web browsers on our phones and laptops. Simple, right?
Well, no. Traditionally, we think of the web as a combination of a set of specific technologies paired with some core philosophical principles. The problem — the reason this question even matters — is that there are a lot of potential replacements for the parts of the web that fix what's broken with technology, while undermining the principles that ought to go with it.
The tech you think of as "the web" is HTML, Javascript, and CSS. (For simplicity, I'll just refer to it at the "HTML stack.") Those technologies are so open and flexible that they've taken over the world. That very flexibility also means that they've been abused, slowing down the mobile web with trackers that invade our privacy and deplete our batteries.
So a lot of tech companies are flailing around looking for ways to fix this problem. There are web apps that work in Chrome but not really all that well elsewhere. There are Instant Articles in Facebook and AMP pages on Google. There are Instant Android apps that stream to your phone over the internet instead of being installed, which go away when you're done with them just like a browser tab. Google claims to be trying to bring some of the open ethos of the web to smart speakers. Hell, go back to 2014 and you'll find Apple pundit John Gruber arguing we should consider apps and "anything transmitted using HTTP and HTTPS" as part of the web.
In theory, I don't think there's anything essential about the HTML stack when it comes to what the web is. I don't have the visceral hate for that technology that many do, but I do have a deep and abiding love for the principles of the open web. So as a thought exercise, I'd like to define those principles without reference to the technology. The HTML web may be slow and annoying and processor intensive, but before we rush too fast into replacing it, let's not lose what's good about it.
And now, a brief definition of the web:
To count as being part of the web, your app or page must:
1. Be linkable, and
2. Allow any client to access it.
That's it.
Okay, not really. There are a lot of details to get into here, specifically with the second point. But let's tackle the first, because it's easy. Whatever it is you're publishing should be linkable: it should have a URL that other things can point to.
But links aren't the complicated part; it's the part where your thing should allow any client to access it. For the web, that rule is pretty clear: whether you use Chrome or Safari or Edge or Opera or whatever, when you click a link or type in a URL, you get the page you wanted (more or less). Those pages are agnostic to the client.
That agnosticism isn't easy; it's driven by web standards and the W3C organization that crafts them. They have periodically been problematic as this or that browser becomes popular and the company behind it encourages web developers to code specifically to their browser (Internet Explorer 6, Mobile Safari, Chrome), but those issues have tended to resolve themselves over time.
When people talk about the "open web," agnosticism to the client is really at the heart of it. A page or app may be free (as in beer) and linkable, but if it only works on specifically proscribed platforms (iOS, Android, Facebook, Chrome), it's not really open.
So you can run through all the web-like things in that list above, look at that two-part test, and just say straight up that these things don't count as part of the open web.
Android Instant Apps: only work on Android. Not the web. Facebook Instant Articles and Apple News: pay no attention to their weird URL redirecting and HTML-esque code, they only work on their respective platforms. Not the web.
It can get messy, though, especially with technologies like Instant Articles or AMP. Particularly AMP, which is build on a subset of the same HTML stack that powers the web. Any normal web browser can view an AMP page, so, as a technology to supplant the traditional full HTML stack, AMP seems promising. But it's tricky. The only reason that works is thanks to Google's largess. Setting aside how AMP's URL scheme and core business case can be problematic, the real issue for AMP being part of the web is that Google defines the terms of what does and doesn't work on AMP and could limit it whenever it likes.
The question is whether any technology with specs that are solely defined by a single company can truly be trusted to be agnostic to the client. Sure, Google has been good for the web (or, better stated, vice versa), but that's no guarantee it won't undercut it if it's profitable. Instant Android apps and custom app indexing are just two ways that the company is hedging its web bets.
Twitter's history is instructive on this question. Once upon a time, anybody could make an app that would work directly with Twitter's raw data. It was essentially a real-time news service / social network that anybody could make a client for on any platform. That is, until Twitter capped how many users those apps could have. Twitter is part of the web, but it could have been the progenitor of another kind of non-HTML web had it not locked down its APIs.
Speaking of questions, I'll re-pose one from earlier: who cares? Well, I do. The openness of the web allowed small companies to become big ones without seeking permission from the biggest ones. Preserving the web, or more specifically the open principles behind it, means protecting one of the few paths for innovation left in the modern tech world that doesn't have a giant company acting as a gatekeeper. And there's reason not to trust those giant companies: there's much less incentive to encourage openness when you have a massive empire to defend.
Not everything has to be as open as the web, but some things should be.
As we gear up to argue about net neutrality, it's worth remembering that ISPs aren't the only gatekeepers on the internet. I don't have anything against apps or proprietary services. I use them every day. Many of them look like the web and work like the web.
But they're not the web.

The Trump administration wants Congress to let law enforcement crack down on drones, according to a document published by The New York Times. The proposal, which apparently circulated yesterday, would let government agencies monitor any unpiloted aircraft system (UAS) flying over an American “covered facility, location, or installation.” They’d be given wide latitude to intercept wireless signals going to the drone, and if they determine that it’s a threat, they’d be able to redirect, disable, confiscate, or destroy it.
“Covered” areas could refer to the sites of search and rescue operations, wildfires, police investigations, and many other government activities. Agencies would set more specific regulations and procedures, which are supposed to “appropriately protect” privacy and civil liberties.
The draft legislation would create an exception for drones in US hacking and surveillance laws, as well as FAA aircraft regulations. Currently, intercepting UAS signals could count as wiretapping or accessing a “protected computer.” Destroying or disabling a drone, meanwhile, could count as aircraft sabotage under FAA rules. The draft states that these rules were created when drones were “unforeseen,” and if passed, the law would supersede them.
Some states have already voted on similar drone regulations. Utah lets police or firefighters disable drones that fly over wildfires, and in Louisiana, law enforcement can disable one if it endangers the public. But outside these areas, the rules are less clear. North Dakota law enforcement officers fired shots at drones during a Dakota Access Pipeline protest last year, allegedly because they were flying too close to helicopters, with no apparent legal authorization. This proposal could broadly grant that authority. The draft doesn’t specify exactly which methods officers can use to destroy drones, but it says they can use wireless jamming or “reasonable force,” and there’s nothing apparently stopping agencies from approving shooting them down.
The draft contends that this new rule would improve public safety and anti-terrorism efforts — it would let law enforcement disable drones that interfere with investigations or rescue operations, as well as drones carrying potentially harmful payloads. But it could also let law enforcement ban drone recording — an important journalistic resource — in just about any area it chooses. According to the Times, the White House will discuss the draft with Congress in a briefing today, with the intent of passing it as part of the National Defense Authorization Act.
In Master of None, Dev Shah (Aziz Ansari) has honed the perfect message to break through the clutter of unoriginal dating app one-liners. While most men greet potential dates with the dreaded “hey” or “hi” (the height of unoriginality), Dev takes a lighter approach: “Going to Whole Foods, want me to pick you up anything?”
“First Date,” season 2’s episode devoted to dating and the apps built around it, makes a point to discuss Dev’s strategy. One of his dates is impressed by the originality of the line, until she learns that it’s his opening line with every romantic prospect. Point is: it’s a break from the stream of boring hellos in her inbox, sure, but ultimately it’s just as rote.
Methinks someone has been watching Netflix #masterofnone #hicutie #dating #datingsucks  #azizansari #lookwhatyoudid
A post shared by dating_sucks (@datingsucks_) on May 22, 2017 at 8:47pm PDT
Unsurprisingly, Dev’s clever line has made its way into the real-life dating world. As I scrolled through Instagram last night, I stumbled across a friend’s screenshot of the Whole Foods zinger. It was the eighth time, she said, that she’d received the line since the show premiered this month. She’s not alone, either. A few minutes of browsing through Master of None hashtags on Instagram revealed dozens more.
Just figured out why I keep getting this line. #masterofnone #onlinedating
A post shared by Dani Gledhill (@danigledhill) on May 19, 2017 at 9:41pm PDT
If you’re a fan of the show seeking a clever way to find other watchers, the Whole Foods line can be endearing. It’s an immediate in-joke for you and a would-be cutie — an easy way to connect over the fact that you both love Netflix and Aziz Ansari. Like bloggers who have used Sex and the City lines to test their would-be dates, there’s potential for some sweet, momentary role-playing.
But if you’re lifting the line with the same frequency as Dev — or you’re just too lazy to come up with your own charming intro — the tactic isn’t likely to get old; it already is old. Because Master of None takes care to hit on topics like mobile dating, it’s fair to guess that many people who use those apps watch it. When you’re the fifth person on their way to Whole Foods, the joke gets a little tiring.
And if your would-be date doesn’t watch Master of None, then you’re one of the many, many potential suitors that suddenly loves to shop at Whole Foods.
So, remember: tell your dates about your Whole Foods trips responsibly. No one wants to see a chain of grocery stores ascend to the new “hey.”
And, no, changing the store name does not count as something new.
When Master of None hits British Tinder.... pic.twitter.com/lmRci75b44
In 2012, the science-fiction / horror film Prometheus brought Ridley Scott back to the film franchise he launched in 1979 with Alien. There have been many Alien sequels, spinoffs, and multimedia franchise additions over nearly 40 years, but Scott’s return to the series was big news. It raised fans’ hopes that the series could return to its earliest, most chilling roots. But Prometheus left a lot of questions behind. Many of the biggest ones were just exasperating plot holes: how does a geologist get lost in a cavern system he just electronically auto-mapped? Why is the best xenobiologist money can buy stupid enough to try to pet a snarling alien in the middle of an obvious threat display? Why does a woman bred for brilliance try to run away from a giant falling object in the one direction guaranteed to get her crushed?
But others were franchise questions. Before Prometheus’ release, Scott claimed the film shared Alien’s DNA, but was a standalone story. But he retreated from that stance, and when the film hit theaters, it almost explained so many things about the nature of the “Space Jockey” in the first film, the origins of the xenomorphs, and the origins of humanity. The near-answers kept fans talking over the series’ questions up until Alien: Covenant came along and seemed to explain, much more clearly, how Prometheus and Alien are connected. Covenant doesn’t answer the “Why are these people so dumb?” questions Prometheus raised, but it does help fill in other gaps. And while it’s a problematic film in many ways, its questions are much more interesting than the ones coming out of Prometheus.
Some of these questions may be resolved in future installments. (Scott says he has several more films planned in this sequence.) A few feel like minor plot holes — not necessarily unsurmountable ones, but questions worth asking because of the directions they lead. But where Prometheus’ mysteries were mostly frustrating and annoying, Covenant’s are more intriguing. They’re more answerable with a little thought. And they’re much more concerned with the franchise’s future. Here are some of the questions Covenant leaves in its wake.
Spoilers for Prometheus and Alien: Covenant ahead.
This one isn’t addressed in the movie, but it was covered in a four-minute prologue Fox released in April, bridging part of the gap between Prometheus and Alien: Covenant. Short answer: Elizabeth Shaw (Noomi Rapace’s Prometheus character) unwisely patched him up.
At the end of Prometheus, David seems baffled about why Elizabeth would want to meet humanity’s progenitors. In the four-minute Covenant prologue, though, it seems like he’s forged a close relationship with her, and possibly accepted her goal of confronting them to learn about what they had planned for humanity. Instead, he wipes them out by releasing the black goo the Engineers seemingly had prepared for Earth. How does he move from one goal to the other?
One Ridley Scott interview suggested that there’s a missing movie in the timeline between Prometheus and Covenant, called Awakening. He’s also said that Awakening is his next Alien movie, and that it’s already written and now in pre-production. (Neill Blomkamp’s currently canceled Alien movie was also called Awakening at one point, but that seems to have been a completely unrelated story.) Given David’s evolution from a Weyland Corporation servant in Prometheus to the father of the xenomorph race in Covenant, there could be more going on during that gap, possibly enough to fill out a movie. But why release Covenant first, and leave this part of the story so obviously hanging? Assuming it was solely to provide tension about Elizabeth’s fate and David’s motives, why flash back and tell part of that story, but not the part that would make Covenant make more sense?
David’s comment in Prometheus — “Sometimes to create, one must destroy” — certainly seems applicable here. It’s in character for him to be willing to casually slaughter sentient people to achieve his goals, and it’s even more in character if he specifically infected the Engineers in order to mass-produce his proto-xenomorphs through their infection, starting the next phase of his experiments. But the details at this point are largely a matter of inference.
This was also not covered in the film. The standalone prologue scene leaps from the two of them traveling together to visit the Engineers to David preparing to slaughter the Engineers, as seen in Covenant. It seems as though they had some kind of falling-out. Given that David says he’s going to do to Dani (Katherine Waterston) what he did to Elizabeth, and that he then attacks Dani — and given that we see Elizabeth’s preserved, gutted corpse, which suggests he used her for his alien-breeding experiments — there’s a hint there that Elizabeth may have discovered David’s experiments with the xenomorphs, and disapproved, driving a fatal wedge between them.
But is that really true? David never seems to have shared Elizabeth’s interests in meeting the Engineers, and his last encounter with one of them resulted in him getting his head ripped off. With Elizabeth safely in stasis, he may have planned all along to betray her, to preserve his own life, and forward his own agenda, rather than accepting hers.
And sadly, the final moments of the film, with David triumphantly sealing Dani and Tennessee into their status capsules and planning their deaths, may parallel what he did with Elizabeth. Maybe there was never an argument between them about what to do over the Engineers. He may have just sealed her away and then murdered her, because in spite of her kindness, her goals were never compatible with his.
But it’s worth noting that none of that squares with the things Scott said in interviews around Prometheus’ release, about how he wanted to explore Elizabeth’s reaction to arriving at “Paradise,” where the Engineers live: “I’d love to explore where the hell [Dr. Shaw] goes next and what does she do when she gets there, because if it is paradise, paradise can not be what you think it is. Paradise has a connotation of being extremely sinister and ominous.” It is possible that there’s a whole unseen story in there, involving David and Elizabeth interacting with the Engineers, and her resulting loss of faith.
This wouldn’t feel like a mystery if Covenant didn’t make it into such a mystery. The universe is big. We know very little about the technology level of the Alien franchise, beyond the fact that they have starships and stasis pods. It seems like it would be pretty easy to miss a habitable planet here and there. And yet the crew of the Covenant acts like it’s preposterous that they’re being shunted off to some barely livable planet when there is, impossibly, a better one nearby. Their stupefied reaction makes David’s xenomorph-crèche world seem a lot more secretive and intriguing, as though he had some giant cloaking field around it until just recently.
Which raises the question: was the planet hidden in some way? If it was actually the Engineers’ home world, or at least a significant port of call for them, which is suggested by the sheer number of them there, had they cloaked it from humanity in some way up until the point where David wiped them all out? Is there more to this plot point than just plot convenience?
We do see the origin of the actual footage — Elizabeth singing to herself as she does something on the Engineer ship — but it’s unclear how and why it was sent out, and in such a weird, narrow way. Presumably David was broadcasting the signal to draw more sentient life forms to his world for experimental purposes. But why, instead of a broadband distress call, did he send an incredibly hard-to-receive, hard-to-interpret, badly damaged clip of a John Denver song? Presumably, that was just for dramatic purposes, and to somewhat disguise how close this plot beat is to the distress signal plot in the original Alien. But it remains a strange choice for someone who clearly wants raw material for the next steps in his ongoing experiment.
I have a couple of guesses here, neither of which are spelled out in the movie, but which do seem to fit fairly well. First, if he was observing them from a distance, he would have been aware of Walter, who is clearly another android built on his same model, and who gives up his arm in a bid to save Dani. Even knowing that the proto-xenomorphs aren’t going to have any interest in killing Walter, David may step in because he wants to meet his android-brother, and he understands after Walter’s sacrifice that Walter might destroy himself trying to save Dani. It’s also possible that after a decade alone, David is lonely and wants to share his genius with his visitors to see what they make of it.
Then again, he may just want to preserve a few hosts for his specific favored strain of xenomorphs, the new breed of eggs and chestbursters. If that’s the case, though, he goes about it in an uncharacteristically sloppy way, letting the Covenant crew wander around and die accidentally and in unproductive ways.
This one is actually fairly baffling. If David wants to spread his perfect creatures as far and wide as possible, why does he mutate them from something that can infect a host instantly and invisibly into something that requires a host to come to one specific place and stick its face into a giant egg? Granted, that’s apparently a pretty common host behavior — it certainly happens often enough in the Alien series — but it’s still a higher bar for specific prey behavior than just walking around on David’s planet.
Presumably, the answer here is that chestburster-produced aliens are in some way more dynamic or intelligent or capable of survival than the virus-produced aliens, and they somehow serve David’s goals better. But we don’t see anything on-screen to back that up. If anything, virally produced aliens mature much, much faster than the supposedly end-stage version we see in Alien. The aliens popping out of the Covenant crewmembers don’t slither off looking for cover like the one in Alien does. They’re capable of attacking instantly, and they grow at a tremendous rate, without needing any food or other visible resources. Why is David breeding them away from that?
This one’s also a little mysterious. Xenomorphs seem to need hosts to breed. And David suggests he’s been tinkering with their DNA. Does the Engineer ship have that kind of technological capability? The Covenant crew comment on the eerie lack of life on David’s planet, which suggests the xenomorphs have been destroying the local ecosystem, eating and / or impregnating everything they come in contact with. We know that later-series xenomorphs take on some of the physical characteristics of their host bodies, and some of David’s drawings and preserved corpses do look like xenomorph versions of bats or fish. But watching these creatures take over the planet doesn’t get David any closer to improving the strain. And why isn’t the planet utterly overrun with xenomorph versions of whatever the dominant life forms there used to be?
In their final confrontation, Walter has the upper hand over David, and David says Walter has to make a choice. It’s certainly possible that Walter just hesitated briefly, and David blindsided him with the knife he’s reaching for in that scene. As we’ve seen, Walter is a physically improved model of the David android, but David is more creative and driven and cunning. The easiest and least interesting answer is that he just overpowered Walter, cut off his own arm, and ran for the ship.
But is it possible that Walter did make a choice? That David has actually convinced him to embrace his potential and in some way cooperate with David’s scheme? And even if David just took Walter out with the knife, Walter has already recovered from a similar attack once. What’s the likelihood that he repaired himself, and that we’re going to see him again somewhere down the line in the franchise? The first rule of horror movies is that you shouldn’t count someone out until you’ve seen the body. Walter’s return certainly isn’t guaranteed, but it’s an intriguing possibility. Certainly David could use some kind of foil or adversary that’s capable of challenging him at this point.
When David is masquerading as Walter, he helps Dani and Tennessee against the xenomorph. He plays fair with it, not actually helping the alien against them, by, for instance, letting it through the ship early, or cornering them in a tight space with it. But he presumably helps them reluctantly, since the xenomorph is the latest, greatest stage of his fatherhood experiment. (For people complaining that the final Walter-is-David twist was too obvious, consider this: Ridley Scott didn’t necessarily mean for that reveal to be a big surprise. He certainly lets the audience see that David is shocked and frustrated when his latest xenomorph gets booted out into space. It’s possible that Scott expected people to see that twist coming, and to feel the tension of waiting for the other shoe to drop.)
That said, what was David’s plan? Did he just assume the alien would handle anything Dani and Tennessee could throw at it, so it wasn’t necessary for him to tweak the odds? Or was he actively testing its abilities by not giving it any assistance?
This is a mystery left over from Prometheus, and it remains unanswered here. This isn’t a plot hole or a story flaw, it’s just one of the big mysteries of this series. Here’s hoping that Ridley Scott eventually does get to answer it. For what it’s worth, Prometheus co-writer Damon Lindelof (who wasn’t involved with Covenant) has said that Ridley Scott does have specific, mapped-out answers to this question, and they just haven’t been revealed yet. (And Scott has said that an early idea still floating around fan forums today — the concept that Jesus was an Engineer representative who humans murdered, proving themselves primitive and unsuitable for the Engineers’ purposes — was discarded as “a little too on the nose.”)
Certainly worth noting: David’s decision to wipe out the Engineers parallels the Engineers’ decision to wipe out life on Earth. Maybe we’ll ultimately get the full answers to both questions at once.
Faith, mankind’s relationship with God, and the origins of humanity are all major preoccupations in these two Alien movies, from Elizabeth Shaw seeking God for answers about her father’s death to David asking Peter Weyland in Covenant’s opening sequence who created him. The lingering question of what David and Peter said to the alien Engineer in Prometheus that made him go berserk were finally answered in the subtitles on the Blu-ray. Peter claimed to be a god, with David as the proof that he’d created life. In his opinion, that put him on the same plane as the Engineer, and gave him the right to immortality. The Engineer apparently didn’t agree, and it capably demonstrated that claiming to be a god can be a dangerous thing. And now, with Covenant, David is claiming his own version of godhood, by creating his own species and setting it loose on the universe.
But what does it all mean? What does it mean that Oram (Billy Crudup), the hapless replacement captain of the Covenant, is a fervent Christian who’s mistreated and disrespected by his crew? What does it mean that Elizabeth prominently wears a cross and talks about God like he’s both the distant father-figure of Christianity, and someone who might be hanging out on a moon somewhere, waiting for his creations to come say hi? Why is religion such a focus for these movies, but in such an unfocused and generalized way? Or is Scott dismissing religion as foolishness, given the tragic ends his religious characters come to, and the lack of hope or help they get from their beliefs? His own stated belief that religion “causes more problems than anything in the goddamn universe” certainly suggests that’s a possibility, but the problems he’s talking about — sectarian prejudice and violence — aren’t coming up in these movies. Instead, we’re seeing people of faith finding that belief doesn’t help them when the monsters come for them.
And with this topic, at least, there are no suggestions that these questions might be answered somewhere down the line. In a series so solidly built around faith — the colonists’ faith in the future, Elizabeth’s faith in answers, David’s faith in himself and the things he creates — it’s natural that religion would become a theme. But the details don’t always cohere. Many of Covenant’s lingering questions can be answered with a little imagination, or might be answered later down the line. But religion may be the series’s ultimate mystery, unless Scott and his writing crew make more of an effort to show what belief in God means to the characters before they get gutted by alien monstrosities.


The MateBook was Huawei’s first shot at building a Windows 10 laptop, but it largely missed the mark on several aspects. But Huawei is back with a trio of new laptops that look to build out the company’s computer offerings while addressing the issues from its first attempt.
First up is the MateBook X, a 13-inch Windows 10 ultraportable that fixes a lot of the problems users had with the original MateBook. It features a traditional aluminum clamshell design instead of a 2-in-1 configuration, has Intel Core i5 and i7 processors instead of the less powerful Core m series, and can allegedly last up to 10 hours while watching 1080p video on a single charge.
The rest of the MateBook X’s hardware is similarly impressive — the 13-inch display offers a 3:2 aspect ratio at 2K resolution with a 4.4mm bezel (it is not a touchscreen, however), storage comes in either 256GB or 512GB SSD options, while the power button doubles as a Windows Hello-compatible fingerprint reader. The only qualm I have is RAM, which will come in 4GB or 8GB options, but given the portable-focused nature of the MateBook X, 8GB should be enough for the average user.
The MateBook X uses USB-C, and offers a pair of ports — one for charging, and one for data transfer. But to make the transition easier, Huawei is including a MateDock 2.0 USB-C dongle in the box in some markets, which offers a regular USB Type-A port, DVI, HDMI, and a second USB-C port for pass-through charging.
Huawei is also partnering with Dolby for what it calls the Atmos Sound System, which combines hardware and software elements from Dolby to offer a better sound experience. Having briefly demoed the feature, the MateBook X certainly sounded good (along with some fun 3D audio tricks), but given the lackluster nature of most laptop speakers, it’s not a high bar to clear.
I only had a few minutes to try out the MateBook X, but it made a great impression. It’s thin, light, fast, and if Huawei’s promises about battery life hold up in real-world testing, then the MateBook X could be a really good portable laptop option that could offer a legitimate challenge to Apple’s languishing MacBook Air line. Of course, that will also largely depend on price, which Huawei didn’t offer in advance of the announcement.
Next is the MateBook E, which is an updated version of the original MateBook. It offers the same basic design (including the leather folio keyboard), but upgrades the screen to a 2K panel from 1080p and improves the magnets connecting the folio to the table. Most importantly, Huawei claims that the MateBook E offers up to nine hours of battery life, which would be a significant improvement over the original, assuming it holds up.
Lastly, there’s the MateBook D, which Huawei didn’t have available to demo in advance. The MateBook D is a 15-inch computer targeting a wider, midrange group of customers. Specs are less interesting on the MateBook D — a 1080p display, configurations offering Intel’s i5 and i7 processor, 4GB, 8GB, or 16GB of RAM (depending on how much you’re willing to pay), and a choice between a 1TB hard drive by itself or supplemented with an additional SSD. Some models will also offer a dedicated Nvidia GeForce 940 MX graphics card, which should be good for casual gaming.
That said, despite its more mainstream ambitions, Huawei notes that the MateBook D still offers a thin, all-metal design and the same Dolby Atmos Sound System as the MateBook X, which the company hopes will set it apart from similarly specced laptops.
The three new MateBooks are expected to ship this summer.
Microsoft has been pushing its pen technology in Windows and Surface for years. The new Surface Pro, announced today, includes what Microsoft describes as the “fastest pen in the world.” Microsoft’s distinguished engineer and co-inventor of Surface, Stevie Bathiche, excitedly revealed the new Surface Pen to me in a recent interview. “We did a huge step with the pen, a massive step,” claims Bathiche. “I’m so pumped about this.”
A number of years in the making, the new hardware speeds up the Surface inking experience so there’s no more perceived lag. It also brings a new tilt experience, much like Wacom tablets, that allows designers and creators to angle the pen for shading just like a pencil. “What’s so cool about the hardware ink stuff is that our touch controller, that’s custom to us, talks to our new custom silicon, the display accelerator, and sends the pen data ahead of the operating system,” explains Bathiche. “We actually write directly onto the screen from the pen. Windows now has an API that will talk to our piece of silicon and that will tell our piece of silicon what color and what font to write.”
This custom setup means Microsoft can quickly erase, about a 100-millisecond trail of ink, before the rest of the system catches up, so it improves the latency of the pen. “This is how we’re able to close that gap,” says Bathiche. “We have the fastest pen in the world.” Pressure-sensitivity levels on the new Surface Pen have increased to 4096, alongside a 12-gram activation force. The new Surface Pen is now double the speed of the previous one, and Microsoft claims it’s “twice as responsive as the Apple Pencil.”
In my own limited time with the Surface Pen I saw a big improvement. I couldn’t detect any lag, and the tilt action felt very similar to a Wacom pen. I’m not a professional illustrator, so we’ll have to see what creatives think, but Microsoft has definitely improved the pen here. Although it's slightly more refined and lacks the clip at the top, the new Surface Pen is still not fully circular, as it’s designed to magnetically snap onto the side of Surface devices. Some creatives will still dislike the shape of the actual Surface Pen as a result.
The new Surface Pen will be backwards compatible with older Surface devices, but that doesn’t mean the new tilt functionality will be available on older devices. Microsoft’s new Surface Pro ships with this new support, and Microsoft is planning to add tilt to existing Surface Studio and Surface Book devices later this year.
Microsoft is launching a new Surface Pro today, and it’s dropping its numbering scheme as a result. While many were expecting a Surface Pro 5, Microsoft’s new tablet / laptop hybrid is simply the Surface Pro from now on. At first glance, the new Surface Pro looks a lot like the old Surface Pro 4, but it’s the inside that counts this time. “It’s a meaningful change," explains Microsoft's Surface chief, Panos Panay, in an interview with The Verge. "There are about 800 new custom parts in the new Pro.”
These new custom parts all add up to a lot of refinement on the new Surface Pro. Microsoft is upgrading the Surface Pro to a new Intel seventh-generation Kaby Lake processor, with a fan-less design on the Core m3 and Core i5 models. This processor switch, and some improvements in Windows 10, means Microsoft is now confident the new Surface Pro will deliver up to 13.5 hours of battery life. That’s a huge increase over the Surface Pro 4, and if Microsoft’s claims are accurate then this new Surface Pro will have 50 percent more battery life than the previous model. While the Core m3 and i5 models will ship with a fan-less design, the top model, an Intel Core i7, still includes a fan.
“This isn’t just a processor change," claims Panay. "We did take Kaby Lake, it’s the latest generation, of course. But it’s the integrated SSD on the motherboard. It’s the fundamental architecture changes that we do in Windows and Surface. It brings 13.5 hours of battery. It’s lighter than the previous generation product, and it’s more powerful with no fan.”
Like the Surface Laptop, Microsoft is promising sleep improvements with the new Surface Pro so you can confidently open and close the device and maintain battery life. That’s been a problem on the Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book previously, and it appears Microsoft has solved it for its latest Surface Laptop and Pro devices.
Related
In photos, it’s hard to show exactly what’s changed with the new Surface Pro, but there are some subtle differences. The perimeter vent has shrunk a little around the device so it’s no longer so noticeable, and the device has rounded edges that make it feel better when you’re holding it as a tablet. While the Core m3 and Core i7 models are the same weight, the Core i5 has dropped a tiny bit of weight. It’s not noticeable at all, and it largely looks and feels like the Surface Pro 4.
Other subtle changes include a new hinge design. Microsoft has adopted the same Surface Studio 165-degree angle for the Surface Pro, allowing it to lay nearly flat. The hinge no longer snaps (for safety) if you push it too far, and Microsoft is confident the hinge won’t break if you lean on it too much. Microsoft’s Surface hinges have been sturdy in the past, so that’s a claim that’s easy to believe.
Alongside this new hinge angle, Microsoft is also including Surface Dial support on the display of the Surface Pro. You can use the Dial just like the Surface Studio, placing it on top of the display to interact with apps like Sketchable. Microsoft is still planning to include this support on the Surface Book and Surface Pro 4 later this year with a firmware update, but it ships out of the box on the new Surface Pro.
One of the biggest changes to the Surface Pro is a new Surface Pen. It doesn’t come in the box anymore, so you’ll be able to purchase it separately for $99. While it will work on existing devices, a new tilt functionality is only available on the Surface Pro for now. Tilt will detect the angle of the pen to enable shading and better accuracy for inking. It’s something that creators who use Wacom tablets have been asking for, and Microsoft is finally delivering.
Microsoft has also altered the level of pressure sensitivity to 4096, alongside a reduction in the activation force. Inking now feels a lot less laggy and way more responsive on the Surface Pro. Even the Pen itself feels a little more refined, and Microsoft has removed the clip at the top of the device. We’ll have to see what creatives think, but it feels like a big improvement. "Right when you put the pen down, depending on how far you push, it’s like a ballpoint pen at this point," says Panay.
Just like the Surface Laptop, Microsoft is moving to Alcantara for the Surface Pro keyboard. Platinum, burgundy, and cobalt blue Surface Pro Type Covers will be available separately at $159, alongside a regular black Type Cover without the Alcantara fabric for $129. The new Surface Pen will also be available in these same colors to match. Sadly, just like the Surface Laptop, there's no USB-C ports on the Surface Pro. It's the same Surface connector, USB, and mini DisplayPort found on the Surface Pro 4.
For the first time on the Surface Pro, Microsoft will also offer a model with LTE connectivity. The LTE version will support micro SIM and eSIM, and will be priced slightly higher than models without LTE support. Microsoft isn’t revealing exact pricing or a release date, or even what processor will power the Surface Pro with LTE. It's possible that Microsoft could opt for an ARM-powered Surface. LTE versions should be available later this year.
Microsoft's Surface Pro devices are the most popular in the company's range, with some estimates suggesting more than 70 percent of all Surface devices in the US are Surface Pro. That makes this refresh an important one for Microsoft's Surface effort. “I believe it will be the fastest adopted Pro we’ve ever shipped," claims Panay. "There’s a reason for that, the brand is here and there’s people who have been waiting for it, and it turns out it’s just a kick-ass device."
Microsoft’s new Surface Pro is available for preorder today starting at $799. You’ll need to purchase a Type Cover (starting at $129) and Surface Pen ($99) separately, and devices will start shipping on June 15th in 26 countries.
Photography by Tom Warren / The Verge
Ikea's low-cost TRÅDFRI smart lights first announced in Europe last year, will soon get voice control for owners of Google Home, Apple HomeKit, and Amazon Alexa devices. Expect it to arrive this summer or autumn, says Ikea's press release first spotted by MacRumors.
Ikea says it sees "great potential" in smart home products, a category it first entered in 2015 with a series of furniture and accessories that had wireless charging for compatible smartphones baked right in. Ikea says it will expand its presence in the connected home with more launches in the coming years, “enabling people to build onto their smart home solution.”
Ikea’s TRÅDFRI low-cost devices could become a very disruptive force in smart homes. The company already helped to democratize design and lead the way in LED adoption. Now it’s positioned to do the same with smart lights, motion sensors, dimmers, and switches, as a start — Ikea easily undercuts the very popular Philips Hue lineup on price, while still matching them on specs.
As if we needed another reason to look forward to the summer, eh?
Buying apps related to an activity can often serve as a substitute for actually doing that activity. I've spent more time reading reviews of meditation apps, for example, than I've actually meditated. I buy grocery list apps as a substitute for ever actually going to the grocery store. I buy cookbook apps and then strenuously avoid cooking.
For most of my smartphone-owning life, fitness apps have been no exception. There's almost always a good reason not to go to the gym, and simply installing a fitness app on your phone can comfort me, however falsely, that I am at heart an athlete.
And then, six months ago, a surprising thing happened: I started using a fitness app four or five times a week, and it made a measurable difference in helping me work on my fitness goals. On one hand, the tool wouldn't have mattered at all had I not been motivated to use it. But on the other hand, having a great tool made my workouts much easier — and in a variety of ways, has pushed me to keep going.
There are hundreds of fitness apps to choose from, and I haven't made an exhaustive search to find the best. I no longer remember where I heard about Strong, a free download for Android and iOS, and I can't tell you much about the company that makes it. Many of its features you will find in scores of other apps — you can create custom routines, log your workouts, and track your weight over time. (Some features require a one-time in-app purchase; you can get everything for $7.)
Strong does two things that have been particularly useful to me. The first is remember: each time I start a new workout for my arms or legs, Strong notes how much I lifted the previous workout. It does so automatically, and it's amazing how such a simple thing has had such a powerful effect on me.
Bumping that number up over time has become a game to me, and it's pushed me to gently ramp up the difficulty level on my exercise more than anything I've tried short of a personal trainer. The first time I successfully did 40 push-ups, I could scarcely believe it. Previous apps I used required me to update my routines manually; automating that has made all the difference.
The second thing I find useful is Strong's graph of my most recent workouts. It's a simple bar chart that adds a block for each workout I complete. For me, a good week involves going to the gym four times. Getting four workouts on my chart each week has also given me a surprising amount of motivation — and getting less has made me feel surprisingly ashamed!
There are a host of other features that power lifters may find useful. A warm-up calculator, for example, will help you ease into your workout. A rest timer will count down your time between sets. There's a companion Apple Watch app on iOS, along with Apple Health integration, for more complete tracking of your measurements.
Since I started using Strong, I've logged 143 workouts and am down 20 pounds from my peak. I arrived at the magical moment of weight loss when friends started asking me what I had been doing differently, and whenever I told them I would always bring up Strong.
To be sure, I have a lot more work to do. (Not least because I managed to strain an abdominal muscle performing in an improv show a week ago, which would be hilarious if it weren't going to keep me out of the gym for an unspecified number of weeks.) My diet is still an essentially grotesque American one, and my weightlifting routine is based more around what I enjoy doing than it is any scientific approach to gaining muscle mass.
But for me, getting to the gym on a regular basis has been one of the great insurmountable challenges of adulthood. Anything that makes that more enjoyable is, for me, worth investing in. I suspect I could have gotten similar results using a dozen different apps. But I can't imagine going to the gym now without an app.
Going to the gym is still a chore. But with apps like Strong, working out feels more like a game that you're playing with yourself: Can you make the numbers all move in the right direction? It's not the most fun I've ever had, but it's enough to get me to the gym. That's enough to make it one of the most powerful apps on my phone, and easily one of my favorites.
Two astronauts will conduct a contingency spacewalk this morning to carry out maintenance work on the International Space Station (ISS). Astronauts Peggy Whitson and Jack Fischer will begin the spacewalk at 8AM ET on Tuesday, according to NASA. NASA will begin streaming the event at 6:30AM ET on its website.
Whitson and Fischer are tasked with replacing a data relay box that failed on Saturday. The box is one of two units on the ISS that control solar arrays, radiators, cooling loops, and other hardware. While Whitson replaces the relay box, known as a a multiplexer-demultiplexer (MDM), Fischer will install two wireless communications antennas on the Destiny Lab. The spacewalk is expected to last for two and a half hours.
Today’s spacewalk will be the tenth of Whitson’s career, and the second for Fischer. Whitson, the commander of the current ISS expedition, has already spent more days in space than any other American. According to NASA, completing today’s spacewalk will likely put Whitson in third place all-time for cumulative spacewalking time. Whitson and Fischer performed the 200th spacewalk outside the ISS earlier this month.

Apple and Nokia have settled an ongoing patent dispute and entered a new licensing agreement, the two companies announced on Tuesday.
Under a business collaboration agreement, Nokia will provide network infrastructure services to Apple, while Apple will resume selling Nokia health products, which were previously sold under the Withings brand. Apple pulled Withings products from its online and retail stores in December 2016, days after Nokia sued the company for patent infringement.
Details of the licensing agreement remain confidential, but Nokia said it will receive an up-front cash payment from Apple, as well as additional revenues. The companies said in a joint press release that they are also “exploring future collaboration in digital health initiatives.”
The agreement marks the end of a patent dispute that began last year, when Nokia sued Apple in Germany and the US, alleging infringement of 32 patents. The two companies sued one another in 2009, and struck a licensing agreement in 2011.


Google’s AI AlphaGo has done it again: it’s defeated Ke Jie, the world’s number one Go player, in the first game of a three-part match. AlphaGo shot to prominence a little over a year ago after beating Korean legend Lee Se-dol 4-1 in one of the most potent demonstrations of the power of artificial intelligence to date. And its defeat of Ke shows that it was only getting started.
“I think everyone recognizes that Ke Jie is the strongest human player,” 9th-dan professional and commentator Michael Redmond said before the match. And despite defeat, Ke’s strategy suggested that the 19-year-old Chinese prodigy has actually learned from AlphaGo’s often unorthodox approach. “This is Master’s move,” said Redmond of one of Ke’s earliest plays, referring to the pseudonym that AlphaGo used for a recent series of online matches in which it racked up a 60-game winning streak.
Interesting that Ke Jie has decided to play an very early 3-3 point as he knows #AlphaGo likes to play there.
AlphaGo won by just half a point, the closest margin possible, but that’s characteristic of its playing style. The AI doesn’t appear to care about the margin of victory, instead choosing moves that it has determined are the most likely to lead to a win. The result was technically close, but AlphaGo looked like winning from a relatively early stage in the game.
“I think it was a really wonderful game,” DeepMind CEO and co-founder Demis Hassabis said at the post-game press conference. “Huge respect to Ke Jie for playing such a great game and pushing AlphaGo to its limits.”
Ke and AlphaGo are facing off as part of the Future of Go Summit being held by Google in Wuzhen, China, this week. The second game will be on Thursday (China time; Wednesday evening in the US) while the finale will be on Saturday. Friday will see AlphaGo further put to the test in two stipulation matches; one where it acts as a teammate to two Chinese pros playing each other, and another where it takes on five Chinese pros all at once.
Zack Snyder, who has acted as DC Comics’ directorial visionary on a number of its most ambitious film projects, is stepping down from Justice League due to a family tragedy. The news, announced in an interview published today by The Hollywood Reporter, means Snyder will be handing the reins over to Avengers director and writer Joss Whedon, who will ferry the project through its remaining post-production stage before its November 17th release later this year.
Snyder, whose daughter committed suicide in March at the age of 20, admits that he originally misjudged how the loss would affect his work. “In my mind, I thought it was a cathartic thing to go back to work, to just bury myself and see if that was way through it,” Snyder told The Hollywood Reporter. “The demands of this job are pretty intense. It is all consuming. And in the last two months I’ve come to the realization… I’ve decided to take a step back from the movie to be with my family, be with my kids, who really need me. They are all having a hard time. I’m having a hard time.”
Snyder has been at the helm of a number of comic book adaptations and big-budget action blockbusters, from 300 and Watchmen to Man of Steel and Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice. His particular style, characterized by dark tones and highly stylized visuals, has been a marked contrast to the more family-friendly, comedic touch of Disney and Marvel. Snyder was originally slated to help shoot and edit a few additional scenes to add to Justice League following the death of his daughter, but now Whedon will be handling those scenes in accordance with Snyder’s style.
“The directing is minimal and it has to adhere to the style and tone and the template that Zack set,” said Warner Bros. president Tony Emmerich. “We’re not introducing any new characters. It’s the same characters in some new scenes. He’s handing a baton to Joss but the course has really been set by Zack. I still believe that despite this tragedy, we’ll still end up with a great movie.”
PayPal is not pleased with music streaming service Pandora, which last October debuted a new simplified logo with a design aesthetic similar to the digital payments company. In a lawsuit filed last week, PayPal lawyers went out of their way to paint Pandora as a struggling has-been tech company with a terrible business model and waning popularity, according to Gizmodo. The suit, filed in Manhattan federal court, says Pandora “has no path to profitability” and “deserted its longstanding logo and latched itself on to the increasingly popular PayPal Logo as part of its efforts to catch up to its competition.”
This particular tech industry beef is so interesting because of the alarmingly deluded self-image PayPal has cooked up for itself. Sure, PayPal is likely much more useful to the general populace as a payments app than Pandora is as a streaming service. That’s especially true given Pandora’s inability to keep pace with Apple Music, Spotify, and the scores of other competitors that have long since abandoned internet radio as the de facto streaming model. Pandora has since switched its focus to a premium streaming model, with a rather smart focus on the underserved country music community, but PayPal’s criticisms still stand, even if they are unusually harsh for a corporate lawsuit.
Still, PayPal seems rather too high and mighty here, thinking of itself as an “increasingly popular” brand, rather than that online payments processor that was inexplicably tied to eBay for 13 years until it managed to divorce itself in 2015. (PayPal’s subsidiaries would appear to have more brand cachet these days, as the company also owns the hip social peer-to-peer payments app Venmo.)
The two logos are indeed similar. Anecdotal internet testimonials on Twitter indicate people are in fact mistaking the Pandora app for the PayPal one, and PayPal’s legal team made sure to include many examples in its filing. However, PayPal’s own explanation for how to created its rather standard one seem a bit inflated:
The PayPal Logo was meticulously developed to exemplify simplicity, convenience, and security. Every detail of the design has a specific purpose. The counters in the Ps were closed to achieve a more compact form that is easier to read. The color was chosen to infuse energy into the logo and to portray confidence and vitality, while harmonizing with PayPal’s longstanding color scheme. The simple yet sharp geometric pattern was chosen to symbolize technology. The subtle shading between the tiles creates depth and dimension to show security. The italic angle conveys forward motion, innovation, and progress.
It’s unclear how this is all going to play out in court, but PayPal is demanding an injunction against Pandora to stop it from using the logo on the grounds that its tricking customers into mistaking the one service for the other, especially on mobile. For poor Pandora, which just reportedly mulled over a somewhat paltry acquisition offer from Sirius XM, PayPal’s especially deep cuts over a logo redesign have to be salt in the wound for a company struggling to stay relevant.
Fidget spinners are the most important thing happening in our culture right now, so it's only natural that a free-to-play iOS game called Finger Spinner is at the top of the charts.
To save you the trouble of downloading it and finding out: yes, it's bad. It's not just that it’s low quality; it's bad in a moral sense, too.
A virtual fidget spinner is the top free app in the app store right now.  pic.twitter.com/gZmQpc6ctm
Here are the basics: there's a fidget spinner on the screen, and you swipe to spin it. But! You only get a few swipes, and then you watch the spinner (quickly) lose momentum. You get coins for however many spins you managed, and then you use those coins to upgrade your fidget spinner so it spins longer, or at a higher maximum speed. Over time you unlock new fidget spinners with funky designs and hardly tolerable spinning sounds.
It's basically a clicker game, but with only three meaningful upgrades (offline coin earning is the third), and so, of course, that means there are ads you can watch to earn more coins. You know what you can't do while you watch an ad? Spin the fidget spinner!
There's an in-app purchase to turn off ads, but that only turns off the banner at the bottom (which leaves behind a blank space where the ad was) and the occasional ads that interrupt you after you complete a spin. Also, every single spin ends with a reward screen, where you can collect your coins and share your progress on Facebook or Twitter as if you've done something to be proud of.
The whole app is basically designed to minimize your time fidget spinning while maximizing ad impressions. I don't know why I expected anything different. But it's wrong, and I'm sad now.
The latest update for the Amazon Video app on Xbox One S enables 4K playback, giving Microsoft’s console another source of UHD content. Many of Amazon’s original shows — Sneaky Pete, Bosch, and The Grand Tour among them — are available to stream in 4K. Netflix, Vudu, and Hulu also offer at least some 4K programming on Xbox One S.
Oddly, Sony’s PlayStation 4 Pro console doesn’t yet support Amazon Video in 4K; we’ve reached out to Amazon for details on when it might receive the same functionality. There are other ways of viewing Amazon’s 4K content, including apps for Roku, Nvidia’s Shield, and some smart TVs. But Microsoft touts Xbox One S as “the only console that lets you stream 4K video content and watch Ultra HD Blu-ray movies with HDR.”
If only Sony had built a 4K Blu-ray drive into the PS4 Pro, there’d be fewer opportunities for Microsoft to throw out those burns.
To update to the 4K-enabled version of Amazon Video on your Xbox One S, just open the app and you should be prompted to update — if it hasn’t already installed automatically.
Since 2015, a Chinese gaming website has been hacking Xbox accounts and selling the proceeds on the open market, according to a complaint filed by Microsoft in federal court on Friday.
On its website, iGSKY presents itself as a gaming service company, offering players a way to pay for in-game credits and rare items — but according to Microsoft, many of those credits were coming from someone else’s wallet. The complaint alleges that the company made nearly $2 million in purchases through hacked accounts and their associated credit cards, using purchases as a way to launder the resulting cash. On the site, cheap in-game points are also available for the FIFA games, Forza Horizon 3, Grand Theft Auto V, and Pokémon Go, among others.
“Microsoft is committed to providing customers with safe and secure online experiences,” a company spokesperson told The Verge. “We filed these lawsuits to protect our Xbox customers from the illegal trafficking of stolen property.”
Microsoft’s in-house fraud investigators began looking at the site in December, making a number of purchases on iGSKY to build the case. In one case described by senior investigator Jeremy Beckley, Microsoft’s fraud team purchased 11,000 FIFA points on iGSKY.com, paying $60. Immediately afterward, Xbox Live received an email and password change for an eight-year-old account, which then proceeded to purchase 11,000 FIFA points for $127.54. It’s unclear how the group gained access to the account, although there was no indication of a broader breach of Xbox services.
iGSKY delivered the credentials to Microsoft’s investigations team in an email, along with instructions to spend the points as soon as possible. Shortly after that, the original owner of the account contacted Xbox customer support, complaining that he had been locked out of his account and unauthorized purchases had been made.
Based on that evidence, Microsoft has brought charges of fraud, CFAA violations, and racketeering conspiracy under RICO, naming alleged parent company Gameest and alleged proprietor Weiwei Chu. Still, Microsoft acknowledges it knows little about how iGSKY is operated, and hopes to turn up more detail in discovery.
Since iGSKY is based in China, it will be difficult to directly shut down the site — but the court can still make lift difficult. Judge Koh has already issued a temporary restraining order freezing the company’s domestic assets, including any PayPal accounts linked to the site. Further arguments are scheduled for next week.
Microsoft Virtual Currency Suit by Russell Brandom on Scribd
In what might be one of the biggest stories to come out of the Cannes Film Festival, Entertainment Weekly reports that Netflix has landed a project that will star Rihanna and Lupita Nyong’o in a story based on a viral meme. The untitled film will be directed by Ava DuVernay (Selma, the upcoming A Wrinkle in Time). Insecure creator Issa Rae is in talks to write the script.
The concept originations from a photo of the two celebrities back in 2014 at the Miu Miu show during Paris Fashion Week. Soon after, the photo inspired comments on Tumblr that proposed a heist movie in which Rihanna and Nyong’o scam the rich out of their money:
Rihanna looks like she scams rich white men and lupita is the computer smart best friend that helps plan the scans https://t.co/PhWs1xd3nj
Twitter users pulled the pair, along with DuVernay and Rae, into the discussion, and all four declared they were interested:
I'm down if you are @rihanna https://t.co/vwHBWeCbFZ
I'm in Pit'z https://t.co/Kz0o3lBEmL
@MikelleStreet @rihanna Lights set. Camera's up. Ready to call action for these #queens.   pic.twitter.com/NVgqpFeTnu
@dvrrxll @rihanna pic.twitter.com/XG2WMribGJ
As fun and silly as the concept is, it’s still stunning that Netflix jumped on board to develop the project. According to EW’s sources, the streaming company fought for the film, putting in an aggressive bid to beat out competitors.
The decision is a triumph for black women in film both behind and in front of the camera. All four are big names in entertainment, and their name recognition coupled with the ongoing call to see more women of color in film will draw both critical attention and audiences to see how well the project plays out.
The project is also huge Cannes news for Netflix, which has endured scrutiny from the festival. During the premiere of director Bong Joon-ho’s Okja, audiences booed Netflix when the company logo appeared. The chilly reception came after weeks of sniping between the streaming company and the festival over whether or not films made primarily for online platforms delegitimize filmmaking. However, both Okja and Noah Baumbach’s The Meyerowitz Stories, starring Adam Sandler, were ultimately well received.
Taken together, there’s now an argument for Netflix finding a way to steal the show.
Update 4:50pm ET: The piece has been updated to clarify that the meme originated on Tumblr.

Rockstar Games just announced that Red Dead Redemption 2 — the long-awaited sequel to 2010’s Red Dead Redemption — has been delayed from the original fall 2017 release date to spring 2018.
Rockstar apologized for delay in a statement on its website explaining that “some extra time is necessary to ensure that we can deliver the best experience possible for our fans.” To make up for the delay, the company also released a new batch of screenshots from Red Dead Redemption 2, which should at least help tide fans over.
Along with the announcement of the delay, Rockstar promised that fans would get more information about Red Dead Redemption 2 this summer — and with E3 right around the corner, it’s likely that information will be coming sooner than later.
Welcome to Twin Peaks Top 3, where I look at last night’s episode(s) of Showtime’s Twin Peaks revival and draw bad fan art of the top three most baffling moments that made an impression on me. If you’re looking for actual analysis and fan theories, we’ve got a big Question Club conversation for you to read instead, because you won’t find any of that here. Twin Peaks has always been a polarizing show, making even fans like myself question their loyalty at times. At the end of each Top 3, I’ll ask myself a question: “Do I want to keep watching?” Let’s find out.
This Top 3 will cover the show’s two-episode premiere, so spoilers ahead!
It’s been 25 years since Agent Dale Cooper’s been trapped in the Black Lodge, and we find that his doppelgänger, Bob, is now rampaging through South Dakota and doing his best impression of a post-apocalyptic Tommy Wiseau. We know this is Bob because his hair is still the same level of greasy and he’s getting nasty with some ladies in motels, which is exactly his aesthetic. What’s become of Cooper is pretty unsettling. It almost makes me wish he never came to Twin Peaks in the first place if it means he could have avoided the fate of having an evil entity with terrible taste take over his body. All I’m saying is, this was Bob’s big moment in the mortal world, and I wanted so much more for him!
Over in New York, we find a mysterious billionaire has set up a glass box in a fancy Manhattan apartment. It’s under constant surveillance by a bored, horny young man named Sam. Some interloper named Tracy is determined to get that D, and she keeps showing up with two lattes in hand, hoping Sam will invite her into the apartment so they can stare into nothingness together. He finally does, and they waste no time getting down, which is, of course, the exact moment a blurry ghost finally shows up in the glass box, and pecks their faces off. Based on what I’ve seen here and It Follows, we are in the age of movies and TV heavily preaching abstinence.
The first reappearance of James Hurley is back at the Bang Bang bar in Twin Peaks, where Shelly Johnson is having a girls’ night out with her fellow moms. Not even Twin Peaks is safe from gentrification, because the Chromatics are playing at the bar, and all the plaid-clad hipsters are loving it. Shelley spots James, still the same sweet, doe-eyed boy desperate for love, and declares he’s “always been cool.” I heavily disagree, but whatever makes you happy, Shelly! Now I’m praying and hoping they’ll hook up this season and make poor choices together.
Yes. We still haven’t seen some of the legacy characters, like Audrey. Plus this season is supposed to have about 200 new and returning characters, so I’m still interested in seeing how kind (or cruel) time has been to them. The other murder mystery, featuring poor Ruth Davenport’s mix-and-match body, is also pretty compelling (though the CGI was jarringly bad)! And we still don’t know what that talking brain-tree in the Black Lodge was. I must keep watching, or I’ll live the rest of my life assuming it was a mango tree gone rotten.
On May 21st, David Lynch’s Twin Peaks returned to television, nearly 27 years after the end of its second season. About the only predictable thing about the revived show was that it was wildly unpredictable. Right at the top, audiences learned that FBI Special Agent Dale Cooper is still trapped in the mysterious Black Lodge, and that his doppelgänger — a snakeskin-wearing thug inhabited by the evil spirit Bob — is loose in the world, creating havoc and mischief. But everything from that moment onward was some sort of surprise, with aged-but-familiar faces appearing alongside new characters and settings.
The first four episodes — two were broadcast, while Showtime made episodes three and four available online — weren’t a nostalgic throwback to the quirky soap opera murder mystery that originally captivated audiences back in 1990. They were the opening arc for something different: a sprawling, sometimes obstinately paced story that evokes some familiar themes and ideas while nevertheless being its own unique piece of entertainment. And as expected, it left us with a ton of questions. The morning after our latest visit to David Lynch’s mind, we sat down to hash it all out.
Warning: Twin Peaks revival spoilers ahead.
Bryan: This is a pretty broad question, but I think it’s worth asking. When we discussed our expectations last week, one of the points we hit upon was the vibe and feel of the original series. Its combination of small-town soap opera, whodunnit, and batshit Black Lodge weirdness was a potent cocktail, tempering David Lynch’s more extreme sensibilities and creating something captivating in the process.
Four episodes into the show’s return, this doesn’t feel like the show we’ve known before, and it doesn’t feel like the prequel film Fire Walk With Me, either. From the early scenes of a mysterious, empty glass box being monitored in a New York loft to the painful sequence where Dr. Jacoby spray-paints shovels one… by one… by one, these episodes don’t have the rhythm and pop that made the original series work. They’re full of moments that meander, lost in the weeds, as if Lynch is daring the audience to invest while providing only minimal glimpses of interaction with the characters legacy viewers are likely tuning in to see.
The Black Lodge still looks like the Black Lodge, and Special Agent Dale Cooper still cuts a sharp profile in a black suit, but everything else seems to drift atop the expectation that of course we’ll keep watching. The original series was never this gonzo, and it always had a strong narrative thrust to keep things moving forward. That turned the bizarre detours into pleasant moments of surprise. Without a clearly defined murder mystery, though, the new season becomes about the oddities and little else — the antithesis of the original Twin Peaks.
Lizzie: During the first episode, I assumed the revival’s fidgety, meandering style was just a way to quickly familiarize audiences with new subplots and characters. But by the end of the second episode, the tangle of plot threads haven’t even really begun to sort themselves out. The original Twin Peaks also started out slowly, but we still had Dale Cooper — the real, human good guy Dale Cooper — as a lighthouse beacon. By the end of the first two episodes, the revival still hasn’t given us a living protagonist who isn’t trapped in some surreal underworld. It might be easier to handle the series’s exhaustingly glacial pace if we had someone to root for.
There’s another reason this doesn’t quite feel like Twin Peaks to me yet, and that’s because a lot of the original’s campy goofiness is gone. There’s an added weight to the new series, and not only because we still don’t know what’s happening to Cooper. Already, there’s more explicit gore, more gunshots, and more desperation to these characters. Small moments of Lynchian levity — like a cop’s broken flashlight, or a nosy neighbor with a tiny dog — don’t balance out eerie scenes like the one of Sarah Palmer sitting in the dark, silently staring as two leopards tear out a wildebeest’s guts on TV.
Tasha: I agree that this doesn’t feel like early Twin Peaks, with a chipper Cooper leading local law enforcement through a bottle-smashing experiment to determine which clues in an investigation are important or chattering away to Diane on his tape recorder or offering explosively enthusiastic praise for pie, coffee, syrup, trees, and mountain air. And it doesn’t feel like late Twin Peaks, with a frantic weasel-cam running around people’s feet, and the ridiculous Adam Sandler comedy of little orphan Nicky possibly being the devil. The early quirk is gone, and so is the late sloppiness, which Lynch himself has said he wasn’t around for, and didn’t even watch.
But it feels to me exactly like mid-series Twin Peaks, where scenes like Cooper talking to “Señor Droolcup” after being shot dragged on endlessly, holding a single chilly, alarming mood. And more significantly, where the series doesn’t feel like Twin Peaks, it still feels like David Lynch. The sound design, with the back-masked dragging noises and the echoing, disturbing soundscapes, is so recognizably his style. So is the chilly cinematography in the outdoors scenes. So is the wacky, startling surrealism of things like The Arm, and the entire opening of episode three. This is more the Lynch of his short experimental films than of the comparatively conventional Twin Peaks pilot, but that Lynch certainly did show up in the original series, especially whenever the story moved into the Black Lodge.
Bryan: Rewatching the original series recently, I was struck by just how low-fi the whole thing feels. Of course, ABC never gave Twin Peaks a massive budget, but the original series had a pleasant, handcrafted feel that matched its quirkiness. That’s changed here; Showtime has gone all-in, both with the resources the network has given the project (Lynch almost quit until he got the budget he was looking for), and the creative control it’s handed him. When the show jumps to New York, it’s full of gleaming helicopter shots of high-rises. The strange glass cube, which appears to have some connection to The Black Lodge — it’s a literal mystery box — is filmed like it’s in a high-end tech thriller rather than the story of folks in the cozy confines of Oregon.
Some of that is no doubt Lynch adapting his filmmaking style to better represent specific locations, but it turns the many different story threads — catching up with old friends like Hawk, Andy, and Lucy; following Snakeskin Cooper through seedy motels; the mystery box shenanigans — feel like discordant, random threads. It’s exacerbated by the modern-day setting. Lizzie, you mentioned the lack of goofiness earlier, and it’s true: the deadpan humor that worked so well in a small town in the ‘90s feels awkward when deployed by the security guard monitoring the mystery box, and it’s even more discomfiting when Michael Cera shows up to monologue as Andy and Lucy’s Marlon Brando-obsessed son. The original Twin Peaks was a time capsule; was that because its style could only really work at that one particular time in TV history?
Tasha: There were people online who absolutely loved Cera’s take on Marlon Brando in The Wild One (he’s wearing Brando’s costume! He’s straddling Brando’s bike! He keeps trying and failing to do Brando’s accent, especially whenever he says “godfadda”!), but I found that segment to be just incomprehensibly awful. It’s the equivalent of James in the original series moping around doing his James Dean impression, except the delivery is even more awkward and unconvincing. The writing is recognizably Lynchian — it reminded me of the Cowboy’s introductory monologue in Mulholland Drive — but Cera is just the wrong person to pull it off, in part because he’s not a nuanced actor, and in part because he’s just too familiar a face.
That aside, though, I’m enjoying some of the modern touches, including the helicopter shots of New York, the ultra-crisp digital cinematography, and the entire plotline apparently revolving around trying to scientifically capture Black Lodge-related supernatural events. Oh, and Jerry Horne shifting his gourmet obsessions over to pot-gourmet business ventures. Jerry becoming a professional stoner and edibles tycoon is easily the most plausible subplot the series has offered in the first four episodes.
Lizzie: While the revival is apparently set in modern day, the passage of time is messy, probably intentionally so. The apartment complex in South Dakota, with its cast of grouchy, flighty residents, feels like it’s stuck in another decade. Maybe it is? I actually preferred the dated-feeling scenes to the ones in New York, which stylistically felt completely unconnected to the world of Twin Peaks that we already know.
Some of the show’s special effects were also a little distracting. In the Black Lodge, The Man From Another Place, aka The Arm, has been replaced by a barren white tree that looks like a holiday sale item from Target. There’s a sack of brain stuck to the top of it, which I guess is a way to indicate that it’s somehow sentient.
Tasha: I mean, it’s basically a brain and a nervous system, crackling with visible electrical impulses. It seems pretty clear that The Arm has evolved into a higher form of being. Again, this doesn’t feel any weirder or more modern than the wailing snake-baby in Eraserhead. If anything, it looks like a product of stop-motion and puppetry, like a technological throwback to earlier Lynch days. Ditto the episode 3 opening, with its strobe lights, missing frames, and photographic tricks. That sequence easily could have been made to look exactly the same way 30 or 40 years ago. A great deal of the new Twin Peaks doesn’t feel like it’s using modern technology; there’s no attempt to make things like The Arm look slick and digital and well-integrated with its background, or to make Cooper traveling via electrical outlet look natural. The “modern filmmaking” here seems like it’s only around for contrast. It’s not the basic default.
Tasha: So far, this is really bothering me. If the first four episodes had entirely stuck with the New York tech-experiment, the Black Lodge, and wherever Dale Cooper went, I’d be antsy to check back in with the Twin Peaks characters we know and love, but I’d also assume Lynch was waiting until the story organically returned there. Instead, we keep getting these weird, disconnected glimpses of familiar settings: Andy and Lucy and Hawk fussing over a familiar conference table covered in files, Shelley and James locking eyes in a bar, the Log Lady literally phoning in her contributions. (I wasn’t aware that Catherine Coulson was able to film scenes before her death, and while I always thought the Log Lady was a pretty ridiculous, pointless character, it was still so heartwarming to see her back, and to see the concern and affection she and Hawk shared on-screen.)
The problem is that almost none of these scenes, except the ones with Hawk trying to figure out what’s missing from the Cooper files, have any connection to anything else, any relevance to a larger story or a larger world. (And if it turns out that “what’s missing from Cooper’s case” is Cooper, and that Hawk is going to find him through something “related to his heritage” because Coop was hanging out in a casino and Native Americans = casinos, I’m going to set my TV on fire.)
Currently, I’m getting the same feeling I got from Arrested Development’s fourth season. Netflix couldn’t pull the cast together because they’re all busy stars, so they shot everyone separately and tried to edit their scenes into separate stories. It just never felt like the characters were operating in the same world. It isn’t enough to just have these characters back if they don’t matter. I don’t want fan service, I want a story.
Lizzie: I agree. So far, this does feel mostly like fan service. I appreciate that, though, if only because it would be really difficult for me to get through the series without it. Right now, any time a legacy character appears, it’s just enough of a tease to keep me thinking that this is all going to pay off in the end. At the same time, it is frustrating to feel that as a viewer, I’m just being placated with glimpses of Andy and Lucy, or thoughtful, gentle conversations between Hawk and the Log Lady, while the real story is happening almost entirely outside of those moments.
Bryan: I’ve been turning this over in my mind since the first episode — how different the new show is, how it seems to have its own thematic concerns and ideas, and how it aesthetically differs at times — and I can’t help but wonder if this is just some other story Lynch has been wanting to tell, and he’s just using Twin Peaks as the vehicle to bring it into the world. The initial scene with Dr. Jacoby sums it up cleanly: he’s in frame, sure, but he’s a speck, and Lynch seems more concerned with taking in the beauty of the surrounding forest rather than what the doctor is up to. (I can barely make out his dialogue in the sequence.)
And then there’s the handling of Agent Cooper. He finds some trick backdoor through the folds of space-time to escape the Black Lodge, but then shows up as an odd mute without even basic language skills. Kyle MacLachlan’s performance as Agent Cooper is a big part of why so many people loved Twin Peaks in the first place. He’s a huge part of what brought order to the show’s chaos. I assume that keeping him out of play and unable to communicate will eventually lead to some incredibly cathartic ah-ha! moment of awakening. (Still, we can’t ever be sure with this show.) But sidelining him for even this long seems to telegraph that Lynch is not all that interested in how audiences feel about these older characters, much less what happens to them.
Tasha: It seems like Lynch doesn’t think it will be, which may explain why we launch with the Ruth Davenport murder mystery, a grotesque CGI: Messy Victims Unit plotline involving a severed head and a hairy, pudgy mystery corpse. From the moment that plotline kicks off, it feels like a modern spin on the Laura Palmer murder mystery — a new death to define the new series. Given that Lynch famously never wanted to solve Laura Palmer’s murder, and only allowed Twin Peaks to unravel that thread because ABC relentlessly pushed him to address it directly, I can’t help but wonder whether Ruth’s death is going to be the eternally unsolved story seed he wanted Laura’s death to be. It feels like we already know who killed her, but will we ever know why? Or where her body is, or why she was left like that? Currently, though, I don’t care about any of those things. They all feel like distractions from the story I do care about — about whether Cooper will ever become a functional human being again, and whether he’s going to take an active part in removing his doppelgänger from the world.
Lizzie: I’m hoping that the Cooper mystery ends sooner rather than later, because I want the old Cooper back. As Tasha pointed out, we’ve already got several murders to contend with, and no one to solve them. As a viewer, I’m not very invested in those murders, but given Leland’s instructions to Coop to “Find Laura,” I don’t think Coop can be out of the game for long.
Bryan: I find it mildly hilarious that while I so cavalier about mythology during our chat last week, now I’m obsessed with the mythology of the new episodes. Matthew Lillard popping up as an adulterous high school principal suspected of Davenport’s murder seemed like a lovely parallel to Leland Palmer, but the way that entire story thread (perhaps) ended — Snakeskin Cooper killing the principal’s wife and leaving town — has me wondering if they’re going in an entirely different direction.
What is Bob’s plan here, and what is the reasoning behind the ritualistic nature of the Davenport crime scene? How did Bob know he was going to be sucked back into the Black Lodge at a given date and time? How did he create an alterna-Cooper who would take his place instead? (I’m not going to wonder why that alterna-Cooper is a real estate agent named Dougie, because some things are just too wonderfully random to be questioned.) Four episodes in, the series’s central conflict seems to be angling toward Agent Cooper vs. Snakeskin Cooper in some sort of Black Lodge battle royale — but while I’m definitely invested in that storyline, I question whether it’s enough for a full set of 18 episodes.
The beauty of the “who killed Laura Palmer?” mystery is that it was a single question that impacted an entire town. Everyone in the original series knew and was affected by Laura in some way. Her death was a window into an entire community, and this show has nothing truly analogous to that yet. The fate of Agent Cooper may drive audience interest, but it’s not going to link the various story threads in the same way Laura’s death did. (At least, not in a way we can discern yet.) There could be some larger, Dark Tower-esque mythology that interconnects everything — Cooper’s appearance in the New York mystery box seems to point in that direction — but even then, that would be a payoff, not a reason to watch in the first place.
Bryan: Many were interested in the return of Twin Peaks due to good old-fashioned nostalgia, but thus far we have a show that’s more like a distant cousin of the original than a direct successor. That’s going to be frustrating for viewers hoping for more of the same, but has an upside in being even more appealing to those who have no preconceived notions.
Unfortunately, that’s a pretty narrow way of looking at this question. Thus far the new season of Twin Peaks has also been confusing, discordant, and lacking in an overall propulsive narrative drive (see “Cooper, Agent Dale” above). Other than just wanting to see the weirdest thing to be on television in quite some time, I can’t see newcomers turning on any of these episodes and being particularly enraptured. Unless they want to watch Kyle MacLachlan play slot machines. If that’s the case, they’re going to be stoked.
Lizzie: It’s gonna be a no from me. I can’t imagine having any investment in this show, or a willingness to trust that it’s going to pay off, if you don’t care about the first two seasons.
Tasha: It’s impossible for me to guess how this all looks to people who never watched the original show. If the story were linear and well-ordered, coming in on the third season would be like entering a really convoluted play for the third act, which is always a bad idea. But in this case, it’s more like joining an acid trip already in progress. I’d love to read some reactions from people coming to New Peaks cold, but I can only assume that for them, this story feels even more disjointed than it does for us. If nothing else, as Lizzie said above, the show currently lacks a protagonist viewers can comprehend or care about. If you aren’t already emotionally invested in Cooper’s recovery, watching him stumble around, parroting whatever he heard last, can’t be fun. But is the unpredictability compelling to new viewers? I imagine that depends on how patient they are, and whether they’re Lynch fans in general.
Tasha: There is absolutely no question about this. I’m in it for the long haul. If we got four episodes in a row that were just test patterns and the sound of fingernails on chalk boards, I’d fast-forward through them — and then come back next week to see whether we’d moved on. I have to find out what Lynch has in mind for this world.
Lizzie: Agreed. I’m only two episodes in, and if it took 25 years to get this made, I don’t think I can give up so easily.
Bryan: Same. I may not know where this thing is going at all, but I have zero doubt that it is going somewhere. And I intend to be there when it arrives.
But please, let’s not talk about episodes full of test patterns. That could actually happen.
Spider-Man: Homecoming star Tom Holland has signed on to star in the upcoming Uncharted film, playing the role of young Nathan Drake. Deadline reports that the role is based on a sequence in Uncharted 3: Drake’s Deception, turning the film into a prequel to the game series as opposed to the straightforward adaptation that was originally planned.
The Uncharted film will focus on Drake’s youth and his pivotal meeting with treasure-hunting businessman Victor “Sully” Sullivan, who serves as Drake’s mentor and father figure in the games. The change comes from Sony Pictures chairman Tom Rothman, who came away so impressed after seeing Holland in Homecoming that he saw fit to change the scope of the film.
This is only the latest change to come to the long-promised Uncharted film. The movie has been in development hell since late 2008. Since then, multiple directors and actors have been attached to the project, including Mark Wahlberg and Silver Linings Playbook director David O. Russell. Night at the Museum director Shawn Levy is currently attached to helm the film.
Of course, this is a huge deal for Holland, who’s about to get his leading role debut in the rebooted Spider-Man franchise this July. Sony is clearly putting a lot of faith in the young star, who was already well received in last year’s Captain America: Civil War. (To say nothing of his dance skills.) Depending on if this new take on Uncharted can get off the ground, the future certainly looks bright for him.



YouTube TV, Google’s over-the-top streaming service, just got an update for its iOS application that adds support for Apple’s AirPlay functionality.
When it launched a few weeks ago, YouTube TV didn’t offer any apps for set-top boxes, meaning that the only way to get YouTube TV content on a television was through Google’s Chromecast. The addition of AirPlay support means that, in lieu of a native Apple TV app, that there’s at least an option now to use the streaming service with Apple’s hardware.
The YouTube TV update adding AirPlay is available now on the App Store.
Silicon Valley is Mike Judge and Alec Berg’s biting comedy about the American tech industry, now in its fourth season. Every week, we’ll be taking one idea, scene, or joke and explain how it ties to the real Silicon Valley and speaks to an issue at the heart of the industry and its everlasting goal to change the world — and make boatloads of money in the process.
Spoilers ahead for the fifth episode of season 4, “The Blood Boy.”
Silicon Valley’s biggest strength is also its most persistent weakness: the real place, located in the drab suburbs just 35 miles south of San Francisco, is itself stranger than fiction. So when the HBO comedy attempts to tackle some of the tech industry’s most outlandish and perplexing happenings, the joke either lands as spot-on satire or falls flat in the face of how ludicrous the real thing is. Because not everyone eats, sleeps, and breathes the tech industry quite like those in the Bay Area, these jokes have to walk a fine line between believable and truly bizarre.
On last night night’s episode, “The Blood Boy,” the show took aim at Silicon Valley’s quest to eliminate death, and it succeeded rather wondrously. This quixotic dream has been well documented over the years, and an excellent New Yorker feature published in April dove deeper than most into the actual science and the philosophical debates shaping the anti-aging industry. Some of the world’s richest, smartest, and most self-serving people think death can be cheated. Humans can live forever, the theory goes, if we just put enough time and money into understanding the myriad ways our bodies and our brains begin to fail.
On Silicon Valley, we have disgraced Hooli co-founder Gavin Belson serving as a stand-in for every egomaniacal supervillain in the tech industry. As part of his quest to live forever, Gavin takes part in the practice of parabiosis, whereby a younger and healthier person’s blood is transfused into an aging recipient to try and restore youthfulness and forestall the effects of aging. The titular “Blood Boy” happens to be a brogrammer named Bryce, Gavin’s “transfusion associate,” who irks Richard by lying about his computer science degree.
This is trademark Silicon Valley these days. The show has become incredibly adept at taking a morsel of a much larger and telling aspect of the tech industry and using it as a springpad for a traditional sitcom subplot. So parabiosis becomes an avenue to have Richard clash with Gavin over how best to launch their new product. Because Bryce suggests casually that a splashy public launch might be better than a stealth one, Gavin runs with it — all while Bryce goes through the motions of removing himself from the transfusion machine. (Later on, we learn that Bryce is secretly writing a tell-all about Gavin while just pretending to be a cash-strapped programmer with healthy blood for the taking.)
The biggest target of this satire is, of course, Peter Thiel, one of the industry’s most infamous venture capitalists and a co-founder of PayPal. When he’s not running a clandestine funding operation to bankrupt news organizations he despises, Thiel is an active supporter of President Trump and an investor in anti-aging ventures. One of these happens to be called Ambrosia, which is working to explore the benefits of parabiosis. These types of transfusions have shown positive effects in clinical trials with mice. But the science is sketchy, and harvesting the blood of the young is ghoulish in the extreme.
This skewering of Thiel is interesting on two levels. Gavin as a character has, in the past, been used more as the idiotic and power-obsessed CEO that is not necessarily restricted to the tech industry. But with the passing of actor Christopher Evan Welch, who played eccentric VC Peter Gregory, the show has shifted some more of the Thiel satire onto Gavin, who considers his closest friends to be his devoted private security guard and a hackish life coach who preaches the gospels of meditation. It’s pulled Gavin’s character in a number of directions, thinning him out quite a bit in the process. So it was, in fact, a bit refreshing to see Gavin exit on “The Blood Boy,” on an apparent quest to “go find himself” after he signs over the valuable peer-to-peer internet patent to Richard.
Silicon Valley’s writers aren’t always able to take these stranger-than-fiction stories about its real-life counterpart and contort them into clever parodies. This is mostly because the show always risks playing to its primary targets, with jokes only understood by those working within the orbit of the tech industry.
With “The Blood Boy,” however, Silicon Valley found a subject just zany enough to paint California’s titans of industry as out-of-touch billionaires while also staying grounded in reality. You as a viewer may have never heard of Ambrosia or parabiosis or even Peter Thiel. But the show’s best jokes are the ones that linger long enough for you to head over to Google and type in, “young blood transfusions,” because a part of you knows that there is just a slight possibility that the joke is actually based on something real. In the case of Gavin’s blood boy, it most certainly is.

Our spinal column is different from that of apes because — yes, you guessed that right — we walk upright on two feet. But when did our distinctive back structure first evolve? The skeleton of an early human ancestor found in Africa shows that some features were already established at least 3.3 million years ago, earlier than previously thought.
The fossil was found to have only 12 rib-bearing vertebrae, the same number as modern humans — and one fewer than most apes. That feature had previously been observed in early humans dated to only 60,000 years ago or later. The findings, published today in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, show that the general structure of our spinal column was already emerging 3.3 million years ago.
The fossil described in the study belongs to a 2-and-a-half-year-old child from the early human species Australopithecus afarensis — the same species as the famous Lucy skeleton. The fossil, called Selam, was discovered in Dikika, Ethiopia in 2000, and has been cleaned and studied ever since. It represents the most complete spinal column of any early human relative — including vertebrae, neck, and rib cage.
"This type of preservation is unprecedented, particularly in a young individual whose vertebrae are not yet fully fused,” study co-author Zeresenay Alemseged, a professor of organismal biology and anatomy at the University of Chicago who discovered Selam, said in a statement.
Selam was sent from the National Museum of Ethiopia to the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility in Grenoble, France, so that its bones could be analyzed using high-resolution imaging technology. The ancient specimen was shown to have only 12 rib-bearing vertebrae and 12 pairs of ribs. That is fewer than most apes and the same as modern humans. It also represents the only known evidence for the presence of 12 rib-bearing vertebrae in early humans prior to 60,000 years ago, the study says.
Researchers also saw that Selam had the distinctive joint transition from rib-bearing vertebrae to lower-back vertebrae found in other early human ancestors. Selam, however, represents the earliest and most complete example, the study says.
The findings suggest that 3.3 million years ago our early ancestors were already on their way to develop a back structure that eventually allowed modern humans to walk straight on two legs. "This structure and its modification through time is one of the key events in the history of human evolution," Alemseged said.
Lengthy stays on board the International Space Station don’t seem to hurt sperm fertility. In a new study, mice on Earth successfully gave birth to litters of pups after being fertilized with sperm that had been freeze-dried for nearly a year on the ISS. It’s potentially good news if, one day, animals and people will have to reproduce beyond Earth. But experts say there is still a lot more research that needs to be done to fully understand how the space environment affects reproduction.
The point of this study, published today in the journal PNAS, was to see if the sperm experienced extensive DNA damage while in orbit around Earth. On the ISS, people receive between 10 to 100 times more radiation than they do on our planet, and the parts of the body most sensitive to that exposure are the reproductive organs.
Sure enough, the sperm from space, which stayed on the station for 288 days between 2013 and 2014, had a bit more DNA damage when compared to sperm that had remained on Earth during that time. However, it didn’t affect the sperm’s ability to fertilize eggs back on our planet. The genome of the resulting offspring was also totally normal and only had minor differences than the pups born from the sperm on Earth, according to the study authors. “We got many healthy offspring from space sperm,” Teruhiko Wakayama, a biologist at the University of Yamanashi in Japan and lead author of the study, wrote in an email to The Verge. “Those pups could not have any genetic damage.”
Having kids in space or on other planets is an important topic for those with dreams of establishing a colony on Mars or elsewhere beyond Earth. And knowing how radiation affects sex organs is just the first step in figuring out if reproduction in space is even possible. The problem, though, is this study barely scratches the surface of the issues associated with sex in space. Radiation is a major concern, but another major variable is how a fetus would grow in an environment without gravity. And we are still uncertain  how that would play out.
“No one got pregnant in space and had the baby,” Dorit Donoviel, associate professor at the Center for Space Medicine at Baylor University, who was not involved with the study, tells The Verge. “An ideal experiment would be to really have mice mate and deliver a litter of pups in space, and I don’t even know if the mating is even feasible for mice in zero gravity.”
Plus, this experiment does not fully capture the radiation exposure that sperm might experience on a mission to Mars, for instance. There are two major sources of space radiation: highly energized particles streaming out from the Sun or deep-space cosmic rays — particles traveling near the speed of light that stem from distant stars either within or beyond our galaxy. On Earth, we’re protected by this radiation thanks to our atmosphere and magnetic field; the magnetic field around our planet, known as the magnetosphere, deflects or captures the incoming particles, and the ones that make it through are mostly absorbed by our atmosphere.
Since the ISS is outside the bulk of our atmosphere, it is exposed to higher doses of these particles. However, the station is still within our magnetosphere, which offers a lot of protection. But anyone traveling to deep-space destinations will be exposed to highly energized particles that can potentially cause a lot more severe DNA damage.
Even though astronauts on the ISS are protected from a lot of radiation, they are counseled about cryopreserving their sperm and eggs just in case, according to Joseph Tash, a professor at the University of Kansas Medical Center who studies how space may affect male and female reproductive health. However, many astronauts have returned home from lower Earth orbit and have had no problems with fertility, according to Donoviel. “I’m not surprised this sperm is fine,” she says. “We know that astronauts who come back from space have been just fine and have had children normally.” She argues that our body has mechanisms for selecting against survival of sperm and eggs that are very damaged.
To really understand the radiation risks, an experiment would need to be done beyond Earth’s protective magnetic shield. But Tash says the only way reproduction in space can be made possible is if “radiation-hardened” facilities are created, to protect growing embryos from exposure. “Given the nine-month gestation for humans, the pregnant mother would also need to be protected by such a facility,” he adds. “So it presents very real habitat, medical, social, and psychological questions that need to be addressed as well.”
But for now, Donoviel says we really need to study if a baby can even grow in a microgravity environment. Since it might be difficult to have mice mating in space, she envisions an experiment in which female mice are launched to the station as soon as they become pregnant and then give birth when they’re up there. That way, the pups develop most of the time in zero gravity. Similar experiments were done in the ‘90s, when pregnant rats were flown for a short time on board the Space Shuttle. The rats gave birth back on Earth, and their offspring had problems properly orienting themselves. Donoviel says there might be even more issues the longer a fetus develops in space. “Embryo development would not be normal, because I think gravitational forces may play a role in how the different organs form,” she says.
Getting pregnant on Mars, though, may be a different story since the planet has one-third the gravity of Earth. Still, it’s unclear how partial gravity may affect a developing embryo, and we won’t know until we test it out. But that’s far away into the future. For now people shouldn’t be thinking about having kids in space anytime soon, Donoviel says. “We’ve got our hands full just keeping adults healthy,” she says. “The last thing I want to worry about is a baby who is going to be a lot more vulnerable.”

The Supreme Court has dealt a significant blow to “patent trolls” that often sue and squeeze a quick payday out of major technology companies using patents that they’ve bought up for that exact purpose. Today, the court unanimously ruled that a defendant should only face patent litigation in the state where it’s incorporated. For Apple, that would be California. For a ton of other US companies, it’s the state of Delaware.
The move is expected to dramatically reduce the number of cases filed with federal courts in eastern Texas, which have frequently sided with patent holders in quick trials involving multi-million-dollar judgements. Nearly 45 percent of all patent infringement cases were filed in the Eastern District of Texas in 2015. The Electronic Frontier Foundation once belittled Marshall, Texas by claiming it’s “probably more well-known as the birthplace of George Foreman than for any technological industry.”
Now, Delaware — where many US companies are incorporated due to friendly business statues — is likely to see a surge in cases. 4,250 patent cases were filed nationwide in 2016, according to Lex Machina.
The Supreme Court case that resulted in this decision couldn’t be much less about technology. It centered on an appeal from TC Heartland, a maker of food sweeteners that argued it shouldn’t have to face a patent suit from Kraft Foods in Delaware since it’s based out of Indiana.
Many tech companies (Adobe, Garmin, HP, HTC, Oracle, Vizio, etc.) and groups including the EFF filed briefs urging the court to hear TC Heartland’s case, insisting that “patent trolls” have used venue laws to “forum shop” and pick and choose districts where they’ve got the best odds of a favorable judgement. Often times, defendants settle patent cases to avoid the costs of discovery and a protracted legal battle.
Even Texas itself filed to support Heartland’s petition alongside attorneys representing other states. “Marshall is so popular for patent suits that a hotel there got a PACER subscription and offered this electronic access to federal court dockets to help sell rooms to lawyers.” The same brief went on to note that “a technology company that finds itself sued frequently in Marshall has seen fit — in an apparent effort to bolster its reputation in town — to sponsor nearly every major festival plus an ice-skating rink in front of the Marshall courthouse.”
Now, patent holders will need to argue their case in courts throughout the entire country if they want to take companies to court.
Universal Pictures is bringing its roster of classic movie monsters back to the forefront with its newly named Dark Universe series — the long-promised web of films kicking off with The Mummy this summer. The next film in the series to hit theaters will be Bride of Frankenstein on Feb. 14, 2019.
Universe has ditched its previous plans to release a Dark Universe movie in 2018 and will instead focus on the 2019 Bride of Frankenstein, which will be directed by Beauty and the Beast’s Bill Condon. There are no details on who will play the titular role, though Universal Pictures chairman Donna Langley called the movie a story about “a very modern woman in a very classic tale.”
As for other characters in the cinematic universe, Johnny Depp and Javier Bardem are already onboard to play the roles of The Invisible Man and Frankenstein’s Monster, respectively, while Russell Crowe is making his debut as Dr. Jekyll in The Mummy. The cast for that film also includes Tom Cruise as the lead and Sofia Boutella in the role of the mummy. According to Universal, the films are connected by the “mysterious, multi-national organization” Prodigium, specifically led by Dr. Jekyll.
In a video released on its website and Twitter, Universal teased a retrospective of the classic films to build hype for its “new world of gods and monsters.”

A sports-free TV package may be coming to an over-the-top streaming service this year, according to a new report from Variety. Viacom, the owner of Comedy Central, MTV, and VH1, is in advanced discussions with a streaming service to become part of an entertainment-only bundle that could cost less than $20 a month, CEO Bob Bakish said at the JPMorgan Global Technology, Media, and Telecom conference.
AMC and Discovery are also in on the talks, according to a report from Bloomberg last month.
The deal, which would cut out high-fee channels like ESPN and drop broadcast channels ABC, NBC, CBS, and Fox, would dramatically reduce the end cost for consumers, and could be priced between $10 and $20 according to Bakish. Variety noted that Bakish also said Viacom was working on repairing its frayed relationship with said streaming service. This could mean Sony’s PlayStation Vue is behind this potential package; it dropped Viacom channels in a pay dispute last November.
Whichever service does release the entertainment-only package, the hope is that a lower fee will entice a larger audience of users more than the current crop of packages from OTT services like Sling, DirecTV Now, and the aforementioned PlayStation Vue have attracted so far. The bigger question is how many people are interested in paying $20 a month for what amounts to fewer options than basic cable?
Nest is apparently just a week or so away from introducing the next generation of its home security camera. According to Android Police, the new Nest Cam will be an indoor camera capable of recording footage in 4K. But there’s a twist: rather than saving and streaming the footage in 4K, Nest will use the extra resolution to provide a better zoom function for the camera. That way, if the camera spots something moving, it’ll be able to crop down to 1080p to provide a zoomed-in look that’s still in HD.
It sounds like a smart approach for the new camera, especially since so few people have devices right now that are capable of streaming 4K (on top of that, 4K would mean huge video files that’d be tough on bandwidth and storage). Plus, if the camera does catch something, being able to tell what’s actually moving is ultimately what matters, and this method ought to improve what homeowners are able to see.
Android Police says there’ll be a few other changes made for this generation, too. There’ll reportedly be a ring around the lens that lights up to indicate when the camera is recording; it’ll switch over to USB-C for power; and some of Nest’s subscription-only features will be opened up to all owners — the report speculates that could include person alerts, which send a notification to Nest Cam owners when a person walks into the camera’s line of sight.
The upgraded Nest Cam will reportedly resemble the outdoor Nest Cam and will sell for $300. That’s $100 more than the current indoor Nest Cam, which suggests that model might stick around while the new one is added as a higher-end alternative. Android Police says it should be announced by the end of the month.
To Ford Motor Company, it must have felt like salt on a hemorrhaging wound.
Last month, Tesla became the world’s most valuable automaker. Never mind that Ford saw record profits last year and that Tesla manufactures a fraction of the vehicles that Ford makes.
The plucky upstart automaker headed up by Elon Musk, a dedicated visionary often compared to Ford’s own founder, Henry Ford, was winning the stock market. For years, the general public had been besotted by Tesla and its gauzy promises. As a journalist who has covered the car industry for over a decade, the first brand people ask me about is almost always Tesla. Sure, there are legitimate criticisms on the viability of Tesla’s business plan and whether it can deliver the Model 3. But while traditional automakers publicly roll their eyes, privately they are scrambling to alter that perception and to keep up. Ford is at the top of that list.
Ford has spent the last two years declaring itself a mobility company. It announced it would bring a self-driving car to the market in 2021. Last fall, it offered journalists rides in its self-driving car on the company campus. It touted its investments in the LIDAR developer Velodyne, and then in February, a billion dollar investment into Argo, a producer of self-driving AI. But the math and the campaign for public perception haven’t swayed investors.
Ford’s wan stock price was the end game for its CEO Mark Fields last week. A so-called mobility company that makes most of its money selling full-size pick up trucks and SUVs wasn’t moving the needle. And talk wasn’t cheap. Spending in flashy ways wasn’t producing results to keep up with the pace of innovation happening in real time.
Tesla’s Autopilot system is already in the marketplace while Ford has Sync, a connectivity system essential to its future that has not wowed critics. Meanwhile, Ford’s crosstown rival, GM, has the fully electric Chevy Bolt and Maven, a car-sharing program available to consumers, that have added buzz. Then in January, Waymo showed up at the North American International Auto Show in Ford’s backyard, armed with miles of self-driving data. And then there were outside forces, like a presidential administration that insists American carmakers needed to go back to old ways of doing business by lowering emissions standards, a blow to Ford’s electric car strategy.
Ford also has to answer to its 200,000 employees. Last week, the company announced layoffs of 10 percent of its workforce, a move that doesn’t inspire confidence. Ford’s effort to be seen as a company steeped in a dreamy vision of the future wasn’t working out. Ford needed a new game plan.
So what did Ford do? It opted to shake things up. Today the Detroit automaker announced that it has parted ways with longtime executive and CEO Mark Fields and selected Jim Hackett as the new frontman. It’s a move designed to send a message to investors and the broader public about Ford’s willingness to make hard changes. Hackett, previously headed up Ford Smart Mobility, the arm of the company dedicated to building its autonomous driving program, and before that spent two decades as CEO at Steelcase, a furniture company. He also resurrected the University of Michigan football program and brought in Jim Harbaugh (which means something to Michigan folks, who take sports success seriously.) The Ford family, also owners of the Detroit Lion NFL franchise, wants to show that it’s still in the game. Both Bill Ford and Edsel B. Ford II serve on the Ford Motor Company board.
Bill Ford, the executive chairman and great-grandson of Henry Ford, has been conducting his own deep dives into tech culture. He was an early proponent of green cars, served on the eBay board for a decade, and founded the venture capital firm Fontinalis. At a press conference held this morning, Bill Ford commented on how Silicon Valley leaders reacted when Hackett entered the room. “Everyone of them walked up to Jim and gave him a hug. To hear the leaders out there talk about him, shows the breadth of the leader he is.”
In the past Ford has turned outside the company to great success. During a bad business cycle in 2006, it was former Boeing chief Alan Mullaly who veered Ford back on track and helped the company weather the 2009 recession. Bill Ford said he wouldn’t compare the two leaders, but still at the press conference he couldn’t resist. “They are different leaders for different times,” he said, and then added, “Alan really captured the hearts and minds of our employees, and made them feel that we could win and that they could have fun on the journey, and I’ll think we’ll see that with Jim.”
What Ford really craves is Tesla’s magic. Tesla is the proverbial underdog that keeps hope alive, though it has yet to produce a mass market car. Elon Musk’s every move is fascinating and his cryptic Tweets are news worthy. Making and selling cars for Ford is not enough. To keep up, Ford needs Silicon Valley. That’s why Tesla’s valuation, as lofty as it seemed, stung.
"Given how rapidly the transportation sector is expected to transform in the next decade, Ford can't afford to be behind the eight ball when it comes to emerging technology,” said Jessica Caldwell, Edmunds Executive Director of Industry Analysis. “If we’ve learned anything from the phenomenon of Elon Musk, it’s that Wall Street likes a tech/innovation guy. Putting the head of their mobility division at the helm indicates Ford is trying to send a strong message to stockholders that the company intends to be a dominant player in the future of mobility."
What’s not clear is if putting Hackett in charge is a Hail Mary to assuage investor worries, or if Ford is doubling down on the existing playbook to dig deeper into Silicon Valley circles and further tech company partnerships. Or maybe it’s a bit of both. To play in the self-driving game, Ford needs to do more than spend money. The real investment is in recruiting and retaining top talent that won’t get bogged down in company politics. It’s learning to make hard changes not just from the top down, but from the ground up. Let the draft picks begin.
Jeff Bezos has taken some business inspiration from George Bluth Sr. on Arrested Development. According to a Wall Street Journal report, Amazon has installed two banana stands at its Seattle headquarters. In two years, the stands have given more than 1.7 million free bananas to staffers — altering local banana sales in the process.
The Journal reports that Amazon opened the first Community Banana Stand in late 2015 as a public service. Bananas were seen a healthy, fully compostable, and affordable snack for employees and locals.
To support this operation, the stands have so-called “banistas” and “bananagers” (really!) to keep up the stock of the slightly radioactive fruit and keep track of how many are given away. So many bananas are dispensed on a regular basis that the stands have forced businesses like the nearby vegetarian cafe Anar to rethink how it uses bananas in its food and drinks. When one of the biggest tech companies in the world is giving them away for free, selling bananas is a nonstarter.
If anything justifies the unasked-for return of Arrested Development for a fifth season, this might be it.
You might’ve seen a leaked image earlier today of Samsung’s upcoming Galaxy S8 Active for AT&T, but the carrier is also launching a ruggedized smartphone for customers on a tight budget. The LG X Venture is an Android 7.0 Nougat device with IP68 dust and water resistance, and the company claims the phone has passed 14 different MIL-STD 810G tests, including drop and temperature evaluations.
It’s exclusive to AT&T in the United States, but will also be sold internationally. AT&T will sell the X Venture for $11 per month beginning May 26th, which comes out to a little over $260 after 24 months.
The X Venture has physical buttons, so it can be more easily used with gloves, and a non-slip back texture reminiscent of the V10. There’s a QuickButton on the side that can be customized to launch your favorite app; by default it launches LG’s Outdoor Essentials app, which bundles numerous tools and software features together, including a barometer, compass, exercise tracker, weather, and flashlight. Double tapping the button can enable the device’s Glove Mode, which makes it easier to interact with the display in all weather conditions.
The battery is also pretty huge at 4,100mAh — especially when you considering it only has to power a 5.2-inch 1080p display and low-end Snapdragon 435 processor. Here’s the rundown of other specs:
Samsung’s Galaxy S8 Active is likely to be a significant departure from previous ruggedized versions of the company’s flagship smartphone. The physical buttons on the front are gone, which might leave people in certain work environments to give the X Venture a closer look — if they can deal with the far less powerful hardware.
Last week’s I/O conference saw Google reiterate its positioning as an AI-first company, a move it first highlighted a year previously. But perhaps the first event that made the public take note of the rise of AI, or artificial intelligence, came a few months earlier than that. An AI called AlphaGo scored a momentous victory over Lee Se-dol, one of the all-time best players of Go, the staggeringly complex ancient Chinese board game.
In defeating Lee 4-1, DeepMind, the British startup acquired by Google in 2014 and developer of AlphaGo, achieved something that many computer scientists believed would be decades away. But the matter wasn’t quite settled among the Go community. The world’s current number one, a 19-year-old Chinese player named Ke Jie, came out after AlphaGo’s first win declaring that he believed he could defeat the AI; Ke toned down his rhetoric as AlphaGo further demonstrated his dominance over the series, but the point remains that AlphaGo hadn’t quite beaten the best humanity had to offer.
This week, the matter will be settled once and for all. Ke Jie and AlphaGo will face off in a three-game match in Wuzhen, China, as part of the Future of Go Summit being held by Google. As well as the Go matches, the event will host a series of panels from many of Google’s artificial intelligence and machine learning luminaries, who we can expect to expand on many of the initiatives Google laid out last week at I/O.
Related
AlphaGo’s capabilities will further be tested in two exhibition matches with intriguing stipulations. The first, Pair Go, will see two Chinese pros face off against each other alongside an AlphaGo teammate: since Go strategy requires immense foresight and strategy, the helping hand could be more of a hindrance in practice for both human and computer, removing their abilities to plan ahead. Much of the drama last year came from AlphaGo’s unorthodox, baffling moves that later turned out to be inspired and even beautiful, so it will be fascinating to see how the AI performs under these conditions.
The second exhibition match, Team Go, is more straightforward: five Chinese pro players will basically gang up on AlphaGo, working together in an attempt to take the AI down. Will the collaborative approach help the human players by providing an avenue for new ideas, or will it be a case of too many people cluttering the strategy? Either way, it’ll make for an opponent unlike any AlphaGo has faced to date. And both stipulation matches will demonstrate not only a wider range of AlphaGo’s capabilities than before, but how the arrival of AI has changed the way that humans play Go.
Most eyes will be on the Ke Jie showdown, however, and with good reason. If Ke wins, it won’t exactly diminish DeepMind’s achievement, but it may prompt a slowing of the AI hype train that has occasionally threatened to derail over the past year. If AlphaGo wins, on the other hand, it’ll confirm that the game of Go has been essentially beaten, and no doubt prompt further handwringing about the machines taking over.
Related
“Instead of diminishing the game, as some feared, artificial intelligence has actually made human players stronger and more creative,” DeepMind CEO and co-founder Demis Hassabis said upon the announcement of the Future of Go Summit. “It’s humbling to see how pros and amateurs alike, who have pored over every detail of AlphaGo’s innovative game play, have actually learned new knowledge and strategies about perhaps the most studied and contemplated game in history. Clearly, there remains much more to learn from this partnership between Go’s best human players and its most creative AI competitor.“
What’s going to happen? Last time, no-one really knew what to predict, but AlphaGo’s strong showing against Lee Se-dol makes it the clear favorite to take the three-game match — it’s likely to be even stronger with another year or so of machine learning under its artificial belt. There’s also the small matter that the AI has already beaten Ke Jie multiple times before in online games conducted under a pseudonym, though that’s a very different setting than the formality of an official match.
“My thoughts are that both Ke Jie and the team will have a low chance of winning because when AlphaGo played 60 games online, no one managed to expose its weakness,” says Lee Ha-jin, secretary general of the International Go Federation until last year and a pro player herself. “If I had to choose, I would say the team has a better chance.”
Ultimately, of course, the promise of AI is about more than solving board games. This week you can expect to hear DeepMind speak about its health initiatives, and Google should go into further detail about how machine learning is already improving many of its products. But the summit will also serve as a fascinating focal point for the impact of AI; an abstract board game created thousands of years ago in China is now right at the center of what could be one of the most profound technological developments of our time. Go may not be the endgame, but it’s a beguiling, engrossing context for these conversations to be held in.
“I am still excited to see the games!” says Lee Ha-jin, who doesn’t particularly seem to mind if AlphaGo prevails. “Go is like a journey and what happens in the journey is more interesting than the result.”
The Verge is in Wuzhen covering the Future of Go Summit. Various events and games will be streamed at this link.

The Onion’s latest project is a massive multimedia undertaking: 700 pages of fake leaks from President Donald Trump’s White House, including a presidential daily briefing rendered in the style of an Applebee’s kids placemat and emails from Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump begging for permission to sit on top of the Pentagon to look for UFOs.
The parody hits Betsy DeVos, the CIA, Reince Priebus, the EPA, a handful of Republican congresspeople, Kellyanne Conway, and dozens more. There are even four faux-documents about Trump’s concerns regarding the “threat posed by lighthouses,” which are “unpatriotic” because they face their lights away from the U.S. shore, and disconcerting because they’re “too tall.”
'The Onion' has done what no other news organization ever could: expose the Trump Administration. https://t.co/rif9tib8ft #TrumpDocuments pic.twitter.com/DbUlJrxKPw
Most of the documents are parodies of email leaks, which have become not just a economic and political weapon, but something of a surreal pop culture phenomenon in the last few years. The project broadly speaks to the frenzy around mysterious White House leaks, BuzzFeed’s infamous “Peegate” document dump, and a general clamoring to simply “see the receipts” amid political controversy.
Fittingly, the sheer volume of the “documents” means it would take hours to wade through all of The Onion’s project. Much like the leaks that make for huge online moments, it simulates the feeling that anyone can be the detective who finds the crucial bit of information in the haystack.
As of this writing, The Onion is about 30 minutes into reading all of the pages out loud on Facebook Live. The stream began with a satirical editor’s note, mimicking the self-laudatory “we did our jobs and confirmed these facts” preambles often affixed to somber news reports.
BREAKING: An anonymous source in the West Wing has provided ‘The Onion’ with a trove of documents that provide an exclusive and shocking glimpse into the Trump administration.
This impressive stunt comes just one week after The Onion-owned ClickHole rebranded as PatriotHole to parody right-wing news blogs that shout about patriotism, conspiracy, and liberal tears.
China’s geese are too well-behaved for their own good, and it’s causing their populations to dwindle. Instead of sneaking out of their wetland habitat into the nearby farmlands to hunt for food, some of these geese stay no matter what — in wetlands that might not have enough for them to eat.
Geese are well known for migrating in the fall to spend their winters in warmer climates. Some geese winter in Europe and North America, and they’re doing fine. But Chinese geese, which migrate from the the frozen steppes of Mongolia and Russia to the more temperate areas of the Yangtze River in southern China, are in trouble. To figure out why, scientists attached tracking devices to 67 wild geese and followed them throughout the winter. The results are published today in the journal Current Biology.
The 67 wild geese represented five different species. Geese from two species that were doing OK occasionally went into the rice paddies to get more food. But 50 birds that represented species with dwindling populations never left the wetlands at all. That puts them far more at the mercy of the natural environment — and that’s bad, because China’s wetlands are becoming more and more degraded.
Of course, there are downsides to sneaking off to the neighboring rice paddies, too. There’s human activity there, and humans like to trap or hunt the geese. Also, farmers raise domestic geese, so there might not be that much food left anyway. But clearly it still seems like it’s worth it, and we don’t know why certain species end up as prisoners in places that don’t meet their needs.
Go, fair geese. Go to the rice paddies and eat your fill. Be free!
In January, Facebook disabled more than 14,000 accounts for revenge porn and sexual extortion, and 33 of those incidents involved children, according to a report from The Guardian. The outlet also reported that Facebook moderators escalated tens of thousands of potential cases that month.
Other documents on moderation rules obtained by the outlet reportedly make clear that, as long as the content is between adults, Facebook allows content showing “moderate displays of sexuality, open-mouthed kissing, clothed simulated sex and pixelated sexual activity.” The company also makes allowances for sexual jokes.
The documents, according to The Guardian, offer some examples of approved explicit content, such as “I’m gonna eat that pussy,” or “Hello ladies, wanna suck my cock?” One example cited — “I’m gonna fuck you” — would be approved unless more detail on the act is also included.
Facebook seems to walk a fine line in other sexual content rules seen by The Guardian. The company allows some forms of nude art, for example, but a document says digitally generated sexual images are not allowed.
The Guardian obtained a trove of documents that outline Facebook’s strategies for removing content. Over the weekend, it began publishing stories from those documents. Today, it also reported on documents suggesting footage of children being bullied was permitted.
Facebook has faced major criticism over how it deals with content moderation. Apart from recent incidents involving violent videos, the company was widely chastised last year for removing a historic photo of a naked Vietnamese girl fleeing from napalm.

Samsung is offering a new deal for the Galaxy S8 that’s pretty appealing if you’re a T-Mobile customer: buy one S8 from Samsung’s website, get a second one free after a instant rebate.
There have been a few deals for the Galaxy S8 offering a second, free phone from carriers (including T-Mobile), but Samsung’s deal is refreshingly simple and free of fine print. Unlike other deals, where you had to activate a new line or lease both phones, Samsung’s offer just requires that you activate one of the two S8s on an existing T-Mobile line through the Samsung website, after which the company will issue you a $750 refund to cover the second phone on your original method of payment within seven to ten days.
Samsung is also throwing in a free “Entertainment Kit” for any Galaxy S8 purchases from its site, which includes a Clear View stand, a 64GB MicroSD card, a six month Netflix subscription, which further sweetens the pot.
The buy one, get one free deal is valid now through Samsung’s website for “a limited time,” so if you’re looking to take advantage of the offer, it might be best to act quickly.
The first thing you notice about the Acer Predator 21 X is the size.
Whether you’re seeing it for the first time as you take it out of the custom Pelican case it ships in, passing someone struggling to carry it on their way to a meeting, or sitting down to see it at a desk day after day, the sheer bulk of the 21-inch, almost 19-pound laptop will shock you almost every time. It’s a laptop that looks like it has grown strong dining on the blood of other, smaller laptops. The screen by itself is thicker than a MacBook Pro.
Originally announced at IFA 2016, the 21 X was never meant to be a practical or affordable option. It’s the ultimate "what if?" device, a glimpse at what hardware makers can accomplish when things like common sense and logic are thrown out the window.
Weighing in at an impressive 18.76 pounds, the Predator 21 X physically dwarfs pretty much any other laptop ever made. And with an $8,999.99 price tag, weight isn't the only place the 21 X beats out any competitor. Put simply: this is the biggest, most powerful, and most expensive gaming laptop ever made. And yes, it is technically still a laptop, with a built-in screen, keyboard, mouse, and batteries that, at least in theory, allow it to function away from a desk.
Acer has made the most of the enormous size of the 21 X, cramming what feels like every inch of it with some serious firepower. Like the external design, the 21 X's spec sheet feels built for sheer overkill. A Core i7 Skylake Intel processor that’s overclocked up to 4.1 GHz. Two SLI linked GTX 1080 GPUs, with a total of 16GB of dedicated onboard VRAM. USB-C, USB 3.0, an HDMI port, two DisplayPorts, and an SD card slot. 64GB of DDR4 system RAM. Five fans. Five storage slots: three SATA, two PCIe. (Acer ships a single configuration, with one 1TB hard drive and two 500GB SSDs in a RAID configuration.) A Tobii eye-tracking rig, for further immersion. And of course, the show-stopping curved 21-inch screen, which Acer highlights as the first in a laptop (the screen also features a 120Hz refresh rate and NVIDIA’s G-Sync technology). Side by side with any other laptop (gaming or otherwise), it almost feels like the punchline to a joke: "You call that a laptop? No, THIS is a laptop."
While the scale and specs the 21 X may be impressive (as is the engineering to actually build it), Acer hasn't taken any dramatic departures when it comes to the aesthetic design. Between the slew of glowing LED lights, the sharp edges on the plastic case, the giant plastic exhaust vents, and the enormous metallic blue dragon that graces the vast expanse of space above the keyboard, this is a gaming laptop through and through. (As a side note, the blue dragon is one of 20 options for the panel, which is removable to access internal hardware.)
Battery life is a disappointment with the 21 X, even compared to the lowered expectations for gaming laptops. The Predator lasted just an hour and 51 minutes on the Verge Battery Test, which cycles a series of web pages through Google Chrome. Unplugging it for gaming resulted in even poorer results that brought the time to under an hour (exactly how much depends on how hard you’re pushing it) along with a hit to performance to boot. Hypothetically, you can use the Predator unplugged for a few minutes, but it was clearly designed to remain attached to the nearest wall. And the power bricks — yes, there are two of them, each individually massive — are made even more comical when placed together in the custom rubber enclosure that comes with the laptop.
Given that the Predator 21 X is so obviously, single-mindedly focused toward gaming, I figured the only natural thing to do with it was to try and use it as a regular computer for my day-to-day life. Look, I was curious to see how it would work.
In short: The 21 X is simply not very good at regular computer tasks. Breaking that down a bit more, there is, of course, the size, which I’ve already said plenty about. But wrestling through a door while desperately trying not to drop the $9,000 computer I was holding really highlighted for me how absurd it was to even try to use this thing in an office setting.
Additionally, the 21 X features a full mechanical keyboard, complete with standard desktop Cherry MX Brown switches. It is loud, very loud, to the point where the entire pod of co-workers near me had either commented, complained, or possibly plotted my death in a secret Slack room. (I personally find the MX Brown to be a good middle ground for both typing and gaming use, but I can see why the noise would get on people’s nerves. Sorry, Dan / Ashley / Kaitlyn / Lizzie / Michael / Kwame!)
But the keyboard itself is incredibly awkward to use for non-gaming purposes: it’s positioned right up at the front edge of the laptop, instead of farther back. That means that there’s no natural place to rest your palms except for the optional, magnetic palm rest, which becomes yet another thing to carry around. But even with the rest, given the high height that the keyboard actually sits at due to the thickness of the 21 X, I found it to be uncomfortable to use for extended periods of time, which drove me back to my MacBook Pro when I needed to get actual work done.
The same can be said about the screen. On paper, the massive 21-inch curved panel seems like it would be great for productivity. But the resolution is relatively low at 2800 x 1080 pixels — sure, it’s wide, but it comes out to the same vertical resolution of a regular 1080p panel. That said, it was nice to be able to stack tons of windows side by side, even if I had to manually adjust text size smaller to fit a reasonable amount of information.
There’s also the trackpad, which has the neat parlor trick of magnetically detaching and flipping over to turn into a number pad. As Windows computers go, the trackpad is actually really good. Acer has included Windows Precision drivers, so it’s accurate, and the array of swipes and gestures all work well. But the trackpad itself is just too small for navigating so wide a screen even with mouse sensitivity turned up, and I generally preferred to use an external mouse even for regular work.
To be clear, all three of these issues — the keyboard, the screen, and the trackpad — all vanish when it comes to actually gaming. The keyboard, while poorly positioned for typing, is much more comfortable when it comes to mashing the WASD keys while running around in Overwatch. The screen, which resulted in comically sized windows for most websites, gives a wide, almost cinematic experience in Battlefield 1. And the trackpad — well, if you're using the trackpad on the 21 X for gaming, then you're already missing the point of it.
As for performance? You might be able to trip up the 21 X if you do advanced CAD work or heavy video editing, but there's certainly nothing in my workflow that could manage it. Ultimately, using the Predator 21 X for regular work feels a lot like driving a Lamborghini to a supermarket — sure, it'll get you there, but that's not really the point of owning one.
When it comes to the actual act of playing games on the Predator 21 X — its sole raison d'être, — there’s actually surprising little to say. This is a $9,000 computer built solely towards that purpose and function. Of course it runs games well. With the kind of hardware on tap here, it would have been surprising if things didn’t run well.
Still, it was my duty to put the Predator through its paces, and the results were pretty much as expected. But beyond the binary of whether or not games worked well, it’s the experience of gaming on the Predator 21 X that make it stand out. Put practicality aside for a moment, and you’ve got perhaps the single most powerful laptop ever made at your disposal. The curved screen dominates your field of view, and really does lend itself to a more immersive experience (assuming the game you’re playing supports a 21:9 aspect ratio — not all do).
And this thing is just ludicrously, almost needlessly fast. Overwatch — one of my favorite games for comparative testing across gaming PCs, since it works on almost anything — barely dipped below 200 frames per second. Battlefield 1, one of the most graphically intensive games on PC these days, ran smoothly even at Ultra settings. And Rise of the Tomb Raider’s sprawling vistas look incredible, even at maximum resolution. Plus, the 21 X actually runs quietly, all things considered — unless you intentionally set the fans to maximum, in which case the five fans spin up to what is amount to gale force winds.
But while impressive, it’s still the kind of high gaming performance that illustrates exactly why the 21 X is impractical. Does the Predator 21 X run games well? Undoubtedly. But it doesn’t run them $6,000 better than a less powerful desktop, or even a comparable one. Between the sheer bulk of the laptop and chargers, the almost non-existent battery life, and the oversized carrying case you’ll need to move it around anywhere farther than down the hall, the 21 X is barely easier to carry around than a desktop. (In fact, there’s tons of desktop computers that are more portable.) Even if you want to just park the Predator 21 X at a desk and pretend its a desktop computer, you’ll probably want to use a larger external monitor and a separate keyboard, which could be difficult to fit on a single surface. And given that it’s perfectly possible to build a similarly specced desktop PC for roughly half what the Predator 21 X costs, you’re paying a massive premium for what amounts to a laughable idea of mobility.
But that’s sort of the point to the Predator. It’s not practical because it’s not meant to be practical. It’s a trophy for anyone who buys it, a status symbol of having the biggest and best thing out there. Of course it doesn’t fit on a desk or in a bag — because the Predator is meant to stand out, to make people take note.
Despite all the shortcomings in price and practicality, I’m still glad the Predator 21 X exists. While it’s probably as unobtainable as a multi-million dollar supercar at an auto show for the vast majority of consumers, much like a Bugatti or a Ferrari, the technology and engineering that went into making the 21 X can trickle down to the more affordable models in Acer’s Predator line. It’s something that we’re already seeing direct results of with laptops like the upcoming Predator Triton 700, which clearly draws from its larger cousin when it comes to design. And at the end of the day, it’s just cool that someone has managed to stuff this incredible amount of hardware into a single device for to achieve this singular purpose at the highest level possible.
So, yes, the Predator 21 X is overkill. But sometimes, overkill is underrated.

Video by Andrew Dowd and Phil Esposito Audio by Andrew Marino



Nearly eight months after the phone was announced, Mophie is introducing a battery pack for the Google Pixel XL. The juice pack will extend talk time on the Pixel XL past 50 hours, thanks to a 2,950mAh rechargeable battery, which can be wirelessly charged using any Qi charging solution. The pack can also be charged using a USB-C cable.
The juice pack comes with Mophie’s usual slate of features, including prioritizing phone charging before the battery pack, the ability to shut the pack off while keeping the case on, and an LED indicator to display remaining battery life and charge status. And it’ll save your phone in the inevitable case that you drop it.
The Mophie juice pack for the Google Pixel XL is available today at Mophie.com and at Verizon retail stores for $99.

Steven Yang quit his job at Google in the summer of 2011 to build the products he felt the world needed: a line of reasonably priced accessories that would be better than the ones you could buy from Apple and other big-name brands. These accessories — batteries, cables, chargers — would solve our most persistent gadget problem by letting us stay powered on at all times. There were just a few problems: Yang knew nothing about starting a company, building consumer electronics, or selling products.
“I was a software engineer all my life at Google. I didn’t know anyone in the electronics manufacturing world,” Yang tells me over Skype from his office in Shenzhen, China. But he started the company regardless, thanks in no small part to his previous experience with Amazon’s sellers marketplace, a platform for third-party companies and tiny one- or two-person teams interested in selling directly to consumers. He named the company Anker, after the German word for ship anchor.
Anker has since become the most popular brand of portable battery packs on Amazon.
Portable chargers had a bit of a standout moment last summer, when players of the wildly popular and battery-hogging Pokémon Go could be seen roaming the streets, their phones constantly plugged in. But these accessories have existed for years as a remedy for our battery woes since the standard smartphone tends to last no more than a day on a single charge. So in airports, the back of cabs, and on city streets we’re plugging into lithium-ion slabs in our pockets and bags to stay connected. The market for portable battery packs generated $360 million in the 12 months ending in March 2017 in the US alone. The brands behind these packs are largely anonymous — Kmashi, Jackery, and iMuto — and they often stay that way.
Except Anker. The steady rise of the company’s profile is proof that it’s possible to meet one very specific consumer need and ride that wave as it continues to ripple out to other markets. A majority of Anker’s sales come from cables and wall chargers, and it’s now moving into the smart home and auto market — anywhere a plug and a cable can solve a problem.
Yang and his team started a company with the sole purpose of selling a better third-party accessory. But they stumbled onto a more lucrative reality: mobile phones, once niche luxury items, are now ubiquitous centerpieces of our digital lives. Each of these phones, and all the products that connect to them, need their own cable and plug. And each and every day these devices die before we want them to.
If there’s anything you should know about smartphone development over the last 10 years, it’s this: batteries are not lasting longer. Phones may be thinner and faster, with larger screens and better cameras, but they don’t stay powered for longer than a day, perhaps 36 hours at best.
The culprit is the fundamental science of lithium-ion batteries, which are tremendous at storing energy but only within limited size and capacity constraints.
The lithium-ion batteries we have today operate at about a fifth of their potential storage capacity, says Lynden Archer, a professor of chemical engineering at Cornell University. And yet that’s still at about 90 percent of the maximum potential today’s battery science allows. “A breakthrough would require a new paradigm,” he says.
That stagnation has allowed Anker to flourish. “A huge part of Anker’s success is the fact that our batteries don’t last long enough,” says Joanna Stern, a technology columnist and gadget reviewer for The Wall Street Journal. “They saw that accessories needed to be made to address customers’ pain points. They’re making the chargers, the cases, the cords — and they’re making it for affordable prices so you can have one of these in every place you are.”
Mobile battery packs weren’t the company’s initial goal. In the late 2000s, Yang identified a consumer need not being met: well-built, reliable laptop battery replacements. “You have a Dell or HP laptop — let’s assume you got it in 2009 — and in 2011 the battery is dying and you want to get a new one,” he says. Back then you had two choices: buy directly from Dell or HP, with a high price tag, or buy a white-label battery that’s cheap but poorly made. “Which one do I want to buy?” asks Yang. “The answer is neither of them.”
Yang saw a desire for a better type of accessory — one that wouldn’t cost as much as a replacement straight from the original manufacturer, but that would be of a high enough quality to earn consumers’ trust. Before he could sell that product, he needed to figure out how to make it.
It was a long and painful process. After he quit his job at Google in July 2011, Anker took 12 months just to prototype its first laptop battery. That was even after Yang and the core team moved to Shenzhen to find reliable manufacturing partners. “I knew that if I stayed in California and had people FedEx me prototypes in a week, it was just not going to work,” he says.
Many hardware companies, especially crowdfunded ones in the US, learn that lesson the hard way, missing deadlines and hitting snags that lead to months-long delays. A solid supply chain is so crucial to a hardware company’s survival that there’s an entire consulting industry around helping startups find suppliers and set expectations.
Critical to avoiding these pitfalls was Dongpong Zhao, Google’s then-head of sales in China. Zhao joined Anker in early 2012, and helped Yang build out the company’s supply chain. Anker was made up of around ten people at the time. “Think of it as a small family business instead of like an actual company,” Yang says. The company tirelessly built out a supply chain in its first year and began testing its first products — the laptop chargers and batteries it would begin selling direct to consumers on Amazon.
From there, Anker ventured into smartphone batteries with a replacement unit for the HTC Sensation. “We were able to make cellphone battery cells that actually had slightly better capacity,” Yang says. “That got us quite the reputation.” Early on, Anker developed close relationships with suppliers in Asia, including Panasonic and anode supplier BTR, to help test and quickly develop new batteries.
Yang says he and Anker’s small team “definitely saw the explosion of smart devices” as its biggest and most obvious opportunity, and Anker started aggressively expanding into portable battery packs, wall chargers, and cables. By the end of 2012, after shifting more resources toward portable chargers, Yang says Anker went from selling 100 to 1,000 products per day.
“The challenge wasn’t selling products,” Yang says. “It was making products and making sure they were high-quality as well. That’s why we spent a majority of our effort on R&D and product development.” The company does a majority of its sales directly to consumers over Amazon Marketplace, where a combination of strong reviews, low prices, and prominent placement in search rankings can turn a single product into a lucrative line.
For the accessories market, which tends to piggyback off trends in mainstream consumer electronics, a true breakthrough is rare. But Anker found one in charging, based on the realization that while batteries may not be improving, charging time certainly was. According a study conducted last year by PhoneArena, it took more than two hours on average to charge a device to 100 percent in 2013. Today, it can be done in almost half the time.
So Anker set out to make the fastest chargers available.
Take the PowerPort 5, a matte black rectangle no larger than a deck of playing cards, with five USB ports. When it was first introduced in 2015, it was the only accessory on the market capable of charging five devices simultaneously at optimal speed. Or the company’s standard PowerCore portable charger, roughly the size of a credit card and just under one inch thick — a white block encasing 10,000mAh of lithium-ion battery cells. It has four pinholes that light up in LED blue when you press an elliptical button on the top to check its remaining charge. It can refill a depleted iPhone 7 in just over 60 minutes nearly four times over before it needs to be recharged.
Most Anker charging products have one signature: the PowerIQ logo. Launched in 2013, the company’s proprietary charging standard is now present on nearly all of its batteries and wall plugs. The technology, carried by a small chip inside each charger, identifies whatever device is being plugged in, be it an iPhone 7 Plus, Google Pixel, or an iPad Pro 9.7-inch, in order to detect and deliver the maximum current the product allows. Anker says the technology can shave hours off the amount of time it takes to reach a full charge. A next-generation version of the chip, a sequel to PowerIQ, is slated to start shipping in new Anker charging products later this year, allowing for smaller and lighter accessories.
On top of its products’ technical advantages, Anker banks on looks to make its chargers stand out. Brand manager Elisa Lu says every device’s packaging is carefully thought out from the moment customers receive the product, to when they open it and use it. Devices come in a white-and-light-blue box with the name Anker printed in all caps across the front. Inside is a meticulously packaged arrangement of lightweight cardboard. Anker products carry that new gadget smell — a blend of peculiar odors from the evaporation of chemical compounds in the plastics and the epoxy coatings of the device.
Beside its red cables, which Anker offers in both standard and braided nylon versions, and a single one-off red battery pack, the company sells products in only two color options: black and white. All this has a strategic business purpose. “When our consumers receive our products, we want to make sure they know they are getting it from a reliable and trustworthy company,” Lu says. Brand trust is a pivotal consideration when purchasing what may seem like random electronics off Amazon.
Inside the the box with Anker’s larger products, you’ll also find a small square piece of paper with two questions: are you happy, or are you unhappy? If you’re unhappy, a block of text instructs you to contact Anker customer support via phone, email, or on its website. If you’re satisfied, it asks you to tell your friends or family. Better yet, leave an Amazon review.
In many ways, Anker’s success is born from the failures of premier manufacturers like Apple and Samsung. Where those companies introduce points of friction — like ever-thinner devices with short battery lives — Anker offers a remedy.
“My feeling is that Anker is a success because Apple offers such subpar and expensive accessories,” says Stern, who’s often recommended Anker products in her WSJ column. It may be surprising that Apple sat idly as the accessory market ballooned around it; it took the company years to develop its own battery case for the iPhone to compete with Mophie. But Apple has always favored high margins on premium products, even the cables and earbuds it sells in the Apple Store.
This has given ample room to companies like Anker, with the low overhead of an e-commerce business, to sell similar products of near-identical quality for $10 to $20 cheaper. And where Apple and others failed to develop products of their own like multi-port wall plugs and portable chargers, Anker saw the opportunity and capitalized on it. The company is quick to fill gaps created by smartphone manufacturers. When Apple removed the headphone jack on the iPhone 7, for instance, Anker saw a giant opportunity to begin producing new dongles and other cable adapters to help consumers adjust.
But mastering Amazon was the real key to securing Anker’s future.
If you head over to Amazon.com right now and peruse the retailer’s most popular smartphone accessories and you’ll find Anker products at the top. Search for a generic accessory like “cellphone wall charger” or “Lightning cable” and you’ll find the Anker brand high up in the search results, typically with a 4.5 or 5-star rating. In fact, Anker products take up the first five slots on Amazon’s list of best-selling portable batteries. And alongside the ratings, you’ll find thousands of customer reviews — reviews that the company scans meticulously for ideas on how to improve their development process.
Two years before he left Google, Yang became intimately familiar with Amazon’s Marketplace when he built an automated system for a friend who was selling third-party products on Amazon as a side business. It essentially took care of aspects of the business like inventory, logistics and fulfillment, and sales tracking. “It took me two months, evenings and weekends, to develop this system,” Yang explained in a video produced by Amazon last year to promote entrepreneurship on its platform. “Within a month, she was fulfilling 300 orders a day.”
Building this system gave Yang invaluable insight into how third-party selling on Amazon functioned. He discovered what worked and what didn’t, and how entire brands could crop up overnight and fade into obscurity the next day. Anker thrived by borrowing infrastructure from Amazon and relying on engineering and support in China.
“Amazon provides loads of services — financial services, fulfillment. It actually makes selling a low-barrier thing,” Yang says. Although the company attempted to handle its own fulfillment in its early days, it eventually discovered it could not compete with what Amazon offered. Now, about 95 percent of Anker’s products are listed as “Fulfilled by Amazon.”
You can build an online retail business off Amazon, but making sure your products get exposure is the hard part. “The biggest challenge for Anker is not sales. It’s customer perception,” Yang says. “People think they need [Apple’s] cube charger and stock cable.” Teaching people that there is a superior product out there, and then convincing them to keep buying, is Anker’s core challenge. “Amazon reviews were really enormously helpful,” Yang says. “The Amazon reviews just come and come automatically.”
Silicon Valley is full of breathless mission statements designed to inspire and justify the power and influence of technology, like Apple’s famous “think different” slogan, and Google’s ominous and now defunct “don’t be evil” mantra. Facebook, back in 2012, celebrated its billion-user milestone with an ad comparing the social network to chairs, bridges, and even nations.
Anker has never aspired to such grand ambitions. “At Anker, we can't exactly help you unwind,” the company admits on its Amazon sellers page. Instead, Anker takes a more straightforward approach by solving the inevitable problems technology creates. “Say goodbye to first-world tech woes like oppressive low batteries and limited ports,” the page says. “Say hello to an easier, smarter life.”
Yang is trying to extend this simple philosophy to categories like headphones, speakers, phone cases, and now smart home appliances under a new brand called Eufy. Launched last September, Eufy is Anker’s avenue for selling things like Roomba clones, desk lamps, and bathroom scales.
Expanding into more product categories is a logical evolution for Anker, but it’s also a response to a looming existential threat: Yang says he foresees a future where portable chargers won’t be necessary due to advancements in both fast charging and wireless charging. “I think we all agree that the portable charger isn’t forever,” Yang says. But consumers will always need wall plugs and cables, and Anker sees its goal now as keeping pace with changing standards, like the introduction of USB-C.
In the meantime, Yang says it’s diversifying with a future expansion into audio, smart home, and automotive product lines. Anker already produces Bluetooth headphones and speakers, but it has aspirations to compete with the likes of Harman Kardon and Bose.
Key to the success of those products is moving to brick-and-mortar retailers. Terrence Wang, the company’s chief marketing officer hired from Procter & Gamble in 2015, says having a presence in Best Buy and Walmart, a process that began last year, is the next stage of Anker’s evolution. “Expanding from online to offline is critical actually,” Wang says. “We are trying to get as many people to know that they have a simple, convenient, portable, fast solution rather than just have to bring their own charger wherever they go. That’s the original brand vision.”
The company’s focus on storefront retail is a response to a second very real threat — dependence on a direct-to-consumer, online-only model. The company has found it difficult these days to launch new products on Amazon. Older products have thousands of reviews, while newer ones need to earn placement in the search rankings and collect testimonials before more cautious buyers pull the trigger. “We’re seeing a bit of a dilemma on that one,” Yang says.
The company is also struggling with its complex product line, with a dizzying number of choices that may alienate consumers who are looking for a simple choice. “We’re converging to this generation approach,” Yang says. “So we’ll try to release a generation of products every 18 to 24 months.” Choosing which products to promote at Best Buy, which to discontinue, and where to put resources for the future are all part of Anker’s growing pains.
The company’s success hinges on convincing — or “educating” — their consumers about the value of what they’re offering. Yang likes to tell a story about a moment he sees play out on repeat every single time he’s at an airport, anywhere on the planet. He sees people, smartphones in hand, rushing from outlet to outlet, looking for space with “the little Apple cube in their hands” and running out of options. “To a lot of people, the original charger and the original cable are the only means to charge their devices, in their mind,” he says. “I look at those people and I always want to go up to them and talk to them.”
Instead, Yang and the Anker team started conducting an annual consumer survey. It has only one question: how often does your smartphone run out of battery? Once every day? Once a week? Once a month? Or perhaps never? “Forty percent of people say their battery ran out at least once last week, another 40 percent say at least once last month,” Yang says. “As long as these numbers don’t go down, I think we have a lot of work to do.”
Nike has unveiled a new collection of Apple Watch bands that match with corresponding pairs of Nike sneakers. Called "Day to Night,” the collection features four different colors of sport bands that include perforated holes to air out your sweat. Despite the name, the new Nike bands don’t glow in the dark, do anything literally transformative, or are meant to be appropriate attire from morning workouts to cocktail hour — Nike says the inspiration actually comes from the various shades of the sky as it changes between dusk till dawn. I’m not sure how often an average person witnesses a pink or lavender sky, but I guess they do make for some attractive-looking Watch band colors.
The new bands will be available on June 1st for $49 a set via Nike.com or in Nike stores. Apple.com will begin carrying the new line in “early June.” Sneakers are sold separately, but they’ll also go on sale on the June 1st for $190 a pair. For now, it looks like there are no bundling discounts for purchasing the band and sneakers together.
In early April, open-source social platform Mastodon had its 15 minutes of fame. The service has been compared ad nauseam to Twitter, from which it borrows its basic structure: short messages from users, retweets (or retoots, in its parlance), chronological timelines updating in real-time, and so on. Mastodon’s layout even cops a basic version of Tweetdeck, the popular third-party Twitter software.
Creator Eugen Rochko made Mastodon as a way of improving on Twitter’s formula; the open-source platform gave users more privacy options, and improved the overall experience with expanded character counts and chronological timelines. The service launched months ago, but it didn’t really take off until Twitter rolled out an update on how it displays replies. As users grumbled over the changes, many took their complaints a step further. They left Twitter — at least momentarily — to start new accounts on Mastodon. The userbase of Mastodon’s flagship instance, Mastodon.social swelled more than 70 percent in 48 hours. Registration was locked, and those interested in the platform were encouraged to branch out to any number of other instances. (Unlike Twitter, Mastodon is spread across many sub communities, e.g. social.targaryen.house, mastodon.host, mastodon.network, and so on.)
More than a month later, the buzz over Mastodon has quieted. But though it may not be making headlines, the service continues to grow.
Mastodon.social still serves as the flagship instance for Mastodon, though registration temporarily closed as sign-up numbers swelled; it re-opened earlier this month. Rochko says he’s longer concerned about its size. “Accepting new users is not much of a problem, load / moderation wise,” he tells The Verge. “It's only when the sign-up plus activity rate is higher than I and my mods can deal with [that] it becomes problematic.”
As it stands, Mastodon.social is home to more than 59,000 users — a jump from last month, when it housed around 41,700 users.
Rochko says he closed the instance during the boom in order to spread members through the service’s federation system — a system of separate, but linked communities — instead of situating everyone on a single server. “That would defeat the purpose of decentralization,” he says. “I am not changing my stance on that.”
However, Rochko explains that with over 1,200 different servers in existence — and at least one other massive instance (pawoo.net, which supports more than 150,000 users) — he isn’t as worried about users defaulting to the flagship.
Work has been done to streamline the sign-up process. When you register on an instance now, there’s notably more handholding than there was a couple months ago. The first time you log in, the service gives you your full handle, tells you who your moderator is, and explains the basics of the service. That’s a definite plus, as logging onto the service initially felt, for newcomers, a little like wandering into oncoming traffic. The tutorial allows Rochko and instance mods to skip personally having to address questions or misconceptions about the service, he says.
“Mastodon isn't difficult, but it's different, and that has to click for people to get it,” says Rochko.
For example, new users need to easily grasp how handles work. Unlike Twitter, your handle isn’t just your chosen username. It also includes the full address of your Mastodon instance. Where I might be @Megan_Nicolett on Twitter, for example, my Mastodon handle is @Megan_Nicolett@mastodon.social. Rochko says that explaining this system to new users right away has alleviated a lot of confusion.
As the flagship instance has grown, its community focus has become diluted. While Rochko described mastodon.social initially as “predominantly queer / furry / leftist,” the 50,000-member community has become far more generalist. “It is hard to describe the average mastodon.social user because this is the ‘flagship’ instance that got all the main press attention, so lots of people from different backgrounds joined,” he says.
Scrolling through my mastodon.social local feed is like reaching into a social media grab bag: toots about personal observations, video games, politics, comics, and a mix of users speaking in French, Japanese, Spanish, and more. As one user opines on Sonic Forces, another laments the Trump presidency. Shortly after, someone toots in celebration of the release of Chelsea Manning.
In other words, mastodon.social doesn’t look so different than the rest of the internet.
With expansion, it has experienced the same growing pains as its social media contemporaries. The need for moderation and blocking has increased. “Trolls and internet go hand in hand,” Rochko says. “We strive to further improve blocking and moderation tools, and make owning your identity across the fediverse easier, whether by making the creation of new instances simpler or adding tools for migration between identities, or cryptographic approaches to verifying identities / content.”
This concept of creating standalone spaces is perhaps the key differentiating factor between Mastodon and Twitter.
Since its moment in the spotlight. Mastodon has ballooned into an even wider web of (mostly connected) communities. According to Mastodon’s site, it currently serves more than 623,000 users spread across nearly 1,600 instances. If there’s a specific sort of community you’re seeking — from burners, cuties, motorsports, sci-fi, and “wang” lovers — you’re likely to find it on the list of Mastodon instances.
The variety makes defining “Mastodon culture”  nearly impossible; it depends on what instance you call home, and which instances yours federates with. Mastodon explains the federated timeline as a stream that “shows public posts from everyone who people on [your instance] follow.” In other words, it’s not exactly the Twitter replacement we all hailed it as. It’s more like a series of sophisticated, quick-fire message boards.
There are a handful of Mastodon instances I’ve frequented since the initial mass migration; all of the moderators I spoke with for these instances noted an influx of users around early-to-mid April. The largest of my personal instances is Mastodon.xyz with more than 9,000 users (for reference, that’s roughly a sixth the size of the flagship instance). The smallest I have a membership to is the Memetastic space, with just over 3,000 members.
Similar to Mastodon.social, Mastodon.xyz offers a general space for users to hang out. When I contacted the server’s host, a French 17-year-old student who goes by @TheKinrar, they described it as a multi-culture community light on moderation. “I only silence or suspend [people using hate speech] or things like that,” they said. @TheKinrar spends several hours a day on the instance. “I'm really very happy with what happened here. I'm involved in a community I like, and there are a lot of people out there thanking me for all I've done ... this is just really great.”
The Memetastic space is currently hosted by @meme, a 15-year-old located near London. @meme says he spent a lot of time on the flagship instance before deciding to start his own. “My Twitter account (@LOLGuy213) had turned into just me ranting about politics, so Mastodon was a perfect place to take a break from Twitter,” @meme says. He explains that Mastodon.social requests that people use built-in Content Warnings when talking about sensitive topics like politics, so people who don't want to read them don't have to.
@meme says The Memetastic instance hasn’t needed much moderation, as most members respect the terms of service laid out in the instance’s informational tab.
When I asked Mastodon hosts if they felt the service could, in fact, serve as the Twitter replacement it was hailed as, their answers varied. Some agreed that it was a good alternative to Twitter. Others likened it to different platforms altogether, like mobile community network Amino Apps, or — perhaps more appropriately — Reddit.
The longer I spent on Mastodon, the more that comparison feels apt. With access to large local timelines, and not just personally curated feeds, there’s a variety of communities and spaces that Twitter, for all of its scale, rarely achieves. At the same tine, the lack of scale still hinders Mastodon. A social media service is only useful if it has members.
Rochko himself says he’s mostly left Twitter behind at this point. “Mastodon has replaced Twitter for me,” Rochko says. “I only rarely check it anymore, and only because not all people I care about have migrated yet.”
At Google I/O this past week, I got my first taste of the next version of Android and I enjoyed almost everything about it. Android has gotten to the stage where improvements come in only incremental steps, and Google is mostly making the right ones with its annual updates. But I have an underlying worry about where this is all going: as Android grows more proactive and assistive, I fear it might end up alienating its more technically inclined users.
So here’s a radical thought: maybe there’s now room for more than one canonical variant of Android. I can already hear the chorus of disagreement, chanting the word "fragmentation" with cautionary zeal, but Google is already working on a modified version with Android Go, its extra lean serving for lower-spec devices. What I have in mind is a similarly stripped-down option intended for pro users: an Android Pro.
Google’s vision of the future of Android — and the future of mobile and personal technology more broadly — is defined by automation. Google Assistant is the user-facing aspect of an artificial intelligence juggernaut that promises to transform how we use our devices and, in many ways, make us more dependent on them.
As Android has evolved, it has consistently moved closer to Apple’s deliberately simplified approach to mobile software. The latest Android O streamlines the settings menu by presenting only the most-used options and tucking the rest away into expandable "advanced" menus. With every version of the core OS and app updates, I see more hand holding and bigger training wheels from Google.
As enthusiastic a Google Photos user as I am, I don’t like being nagged to back up my photos every time I open the app, and I don’t think I’ll much enjoy receiving constant reminders about Google photo books when they become available. There used to be a time when Google Maps was just a mapping application, but now it takes a couple of extra seconds to load while Google furnishes it with extra search options and local business information (mostly the locations of the nearest pizzerias). Maps has also developed an unfortunate habit of pumping notifications my way, whether it’s for road traffic that isn’t relevant to me or urging me to contribute my photos of known landmarks.
It is while setting up a new Android phone, as I uncheck every superfluous notification option on Maps, Android Pay, Docs, Drive, Photos, and YouTube that I come to think, this is Windows behavior. My standard operating procedure with any new Windows PC setup is to deselect all the options that Microsoft ticks for me — and now Android is bulking out to match that (admittedly minor) annoyance.
Speaking with Android chief Hiroshi Lockheimer during Google I/O, I was told that the teams responsible for all of these apps make their decisions based on a lot of user research and (anonymized, he was quick to point out) data. One of Android’s outstanding challenges is informing people of everything the system can do, and the prompts for action from Google’s apps are helpful pointers for neophytes. In essence, Google’s lowest common denominator is gradually shifting lower, as the company looks to scoop up every last feature phone holdout while at the same time matching the accessibility of Apple’s iOS.
There’s always a balance to be struck when trying to keep experienced users moving at their fastest without leaving new ones behind. The trouble for me is that Google’s assistive efforts aren’t all optional. The suggested email replies of Google Inbox, for example, were promoted to the main Gmail app in Android during I/O — and, much like my colleague Adi Robertson, I find them off-putting in the way they impersonate me. Aside from the inappropriateness of offering canned responses when someone might be reading an intensely personal message, these responses just take up screen space.
If cars can have a sport mode that stiffens the suspension, heightens throttle response, and disables driving assists for a purer and faster experience, why not phones, too? I want something like Android Go — barebones, simplified, streamlined to run as fast as possible — but with all the latest and greatest capabilities that Android can support. All the torque, none of the training wheels.
My idea for an Android Pro wouldn’t meaningfully contribute to Android’s long-unresolved issue of software fragmentation because the thing I envision is taking features away, not adding more. I can live without Google Assistant and without Uber and Lyft being directly integrated into Maps. Just give me the familiar single-purpose, siloed-off apps, and let me worry about connecting the dots between them. That’s the way Android grew to its present popularity, and there are many of us already accustomed to highly effective workflows built atop its simple, un-enhanced structure.
An Android Pro could also serve as a useful branding tool, giving Android OEMs an excuse not to mess around with creating their own skins and user assists, shipping Google’s prepared code as it is, which could in turn accelerate updates and reinforce the idea of this being an OS for professionals.
Apple might not have more than one version of iOS, but then Apple isn’t trying to address the full range of smartphone users. Google, on the contrary, wants to put an Android device in everyone’s hands, and that’s what has pushed it to create Android Go for the affordable segment of the market. Now how about an Android Pro for the enthusiast and professional groups that gave Android its first taste of success?
It’s getting close to the time of year when Samsung usually introduces a rugged version of its latest Galaxy S smartphone. And a new leak from the Wireless Power Consortium reveals a lot about what the S8 Active is going to look like.
It’s only a single photo, but the image lets us know three key things about the S8 Active. First, the display: the S8 Active won’t have curved edges, like the regular S8.
The big question this year was what Samsung planned to do about the screen, since curved glass may be more susceptible to cracking, and Samsung seems to have decided the best option was to get rid of it altogether. Instead, the S8 Active has a flattened out look but retains the S8’s rounded corners, making the front of the phone look a lot like LG’s G6.
Samsung seems to have made the bezels a little bit larger on the S8 Active, particularly on the sides. But overall, the front of the phone still seems to get fairly close to the nearly all-screen look of actual S8.
The second thing this photo shows is that Samsung isn’t putting buttons back on the front of the phone. That’s not necessarily a huge surprise, but it’ll make the device a bit harder to handle when wet, since owners will be relying on the touchscreen.
And finally, this photo reveals a bit of what Samsung is doing to make the phone rugged. All four of its corners bump out, suggesting they’ve been reinforced to absorb shock should the phone get dropped; it looks a lot like what Samsung has done in the past. We still don’t know exactly how bulky the Active model will look, but recent models have avoided feeling chunky — they’re just not noticeably thin like the main model.
One other thing we don’t know: if Samsung will put camo on the back of this thing.
Samsung’s Active phones usually include bigger batteries, shatter-resistant screens, and dust- and water-proofing. They’re also usually exclusive to AT&T and announced in June, so we should hear more soon.
Ringly is launching a new version of its smart bracelet with an updated look, all the same features, and a lower price.
The new model is called the Ringly Go, and its biggest difference is its looks. The new model puts a large stone in the middle of a leather strap, instead of a large gem in the middle of a metal bracelet like most of the original models. It’s a much more subdued look, and I think I like it more than the older design.
Like the first Ringly bracelet, the Ringly Go can be used as a fitness tracker and a notification device. It counts daily steps, distance traveled, and calories burned. And it can vibrate and light up to alert wearers to different types of notifications on their phone, like calls, reminders, and messages from specific people.
Ringly is also estimating a day longer battery life on this model: two to three days, instead of one to two.
The other big feature differentiator is the price. This one will sell for $125, while the original bracelet sells for $165. Given that they do all the same things, it’s really just a style choice at this point.
Ringly is also going to be selling this model in some Target stores in the US, which should give the Go much more exposure and put it up against more familiar fitness trackers.
Owners of a Hopper DVR and an Amazon Echo can now change the channel or find a specific programming using just their voice. Dish has announced that starting today, customers can use Alexa to control their Hopper DVR or Wally satellite without ever touching the remote.
Dish first announced this capability back in January during CES, and the feature will be available for every generation of the Hopper DVR. According to Dish, the Alexa search feature for TV shows work across the provider’s content catalog (live or recorded) in addition to on-demand titles. That means it’ll know to look to Netflix if you ask Alexa to play the new season of Master of None, or go through your live and recorded library when you want to watch an episode of The Walking Dead.
To set up the functionality, users can set up the Dish TV skill in their Alexa app, where they’ll get walked through the process of pairing the devices together.
Google is facing a lawsuit in San Francisco Superior Court alleging that the company has fostered a culture of secrecy and fear. Leaks to the media are forbidden, and employees are encouraged to monitor their colleagues for leaks, according to the suit, which was filed in December by an anonymous ex-employee who claims they were unjustly fired.
We’re now seeing some of the first evidence to support those allegations. Earlier this month, attorneys for the plaintiffs entered an email as an exhibit in the case. The May 2016 document — one that has been previously quoted from in the lawsuit but not published in full — describes the result of an internal hunt for a leaker, mentioning a dedicated “stopleaks” internal email address, presumably directing to a team that the lawsuit claims is tasked with such investigations.
The story behind the all-staff email starts with an incident from last year. In April, Recode published internal, employee-generated memes roasting Nest CEO Tony Fadell for a decision to shut down products from Revolv, a company acquired by Nest. In response to the criticism, Fadell gave a talk at the company’s weekly TGIF meeting and claimed Nest’s culture, another subject of criticism, was “improving.” The transcript from the talk was then also published by Recode.
The internal email was sent a few weeks later, on May 6th, with the subject line “the recent leaks.” Written by Brian Katz, a former State Department special agent who now runs “investigations” at Google, it begins with a stern warning: “INTERNAL ONLY. REALLY.”
Katz introduces himself as the head of the “stop leaks” team, a group of employees that the lawsuit claims is tasked with tracing the source of information that makes its way to the public. Katz writes that the company identified and fired the leaker for “their intentional disregard of confidentiality.” As a result of the leaks, Google stopped publishing transcripts of its TGIF talks, opting for a live stream instead. (The plaintiff who brought the suit says he was falsely accused by Katz of being the source of the leaks.)
“We’ve all worked hard to create an environment where we can share information openly,” Katz writes. “Our culture relies on our ability to trust each other — we share a lot of confidential information, but we also commit to keeping it inside the company. We don’t want that to change.” He went on to encourage employees to share concerns with managers or through the human resources department, rather than airing them publicly. The Information noted in a story last year that, around the same time, Katz allegedly told employees in a webcast “to look to their left and look to their right,” saying one of those people may be leaking information.
Katz ended by writing that the conversation had turned “less than civil” inside Google, and points to conversations on internal Google tools like Memegen as problems. “Memegen, Misc, Internal G+, and our many discussion groups are a big part of our culture — they keep us honest — but like any conversation amongst colleagues, we should keep it respectful.”
The lawsuit alleges that Google’s leaks policy covers essentially all company information and prohibits reasonable discussion about company activities. The stop leaks team is a primary object of criticism in the suit, which alleges that the team encourages employees to report any suspicious activity from their colleagues and streamlined the leak-reporting process with a dedicated URL. The email references a dedicated email address as well: “stopleaks@”. Google declined to elaborate on how the stop leaks team works. An attempt at emailing the group resulted in a bounce.
A related case was also recently brought to the National Labor Relations Board.
“We're very committed to an open internal culture, which means we frequently share with employees details of product launches and confidential business information,” a Google spokesperson told The Verge in a statement. “Transparency is a huge part of our culture. Our employee confidentiality requirements are designed to protect proprietary business information, while not preventing employees from disclosing information about terms and conditions of employment or workplace concerns."
The full text of the email is copied below.
Subject: The recent leaks
From: Brian Katz
To: Googlers
INTERNAL ONLY. REALLY.
Hi there. I’m Brian. I lead the Investigations team, which includes stopleaks@.
At TGIF a few weeks back we promised an update on our investigation into some recent leaks, and here it is: We identified the people who leaked the TGIF transcript and memes. Because of their intentional disregard of confidentiality, they’ve been fired.
We’ve all worked hard to create an environment where we can share information openly. Our culture relies on our ability to trust each other—we share a lot of confidential information, but we also commit to keeping it inside the company. We don’t want that to change.
That said, we’ll be making some changes to TGIF to help keep the information shared internal-only, starting by no longer posting the written transcript to go/tgif. Instead, you’ll be able to watch a live stream, and for those who can’t tune in live, we’ll be offering the full video with Q&A.
We’ll continue to share information internally because the vast majority of Googlers and Characters respect our culture and don’t leak—thank you for that. That commitment toward a common vision and goal makes this a special place to work.
Please remember: whether malicious or unintentional, leaks damage our culture. Be aware of the company information you share and with whom you share it. If you’re considering sharing confidential information to a reporter—or to anyone externally—for the love of all that’s Googley, please reconsider! Not only could it cost you your job, but it also betrays the values that makes us a community. If you have concerns or disagreements, share them constructively through your manager, HRBP or go/saysomething.
Which brings me to my final point: some of the recent discourse on Memegen and elsewhere within the company has been, shall we say, less than civil. Memegen, Misc, Internal G+ and our many discussion groups are a big part of our culture—they keep us honest—but like any conversation amongst colleagues, we should keep it respectful.
Brian Katz
Director, Protective Services, Investigations & Intelligence
HP is announcing a handful of laptop upgrades today, but two stand out for going head to head with Microsoft’s Surface line. The first is an upgrade of HP’s Spectre x2, making it into a more capable Surface Pro competitor. And the second is a slimmed down Envy 13 that makes the laptop look like it could be a better MacBook Air alternative than the Surface Laptop.
The Spectre x2 — a tablet with a detachable keyboard case — was pretty well received when it was introduced two years ago, but it had one big drawback: it could only be configured with Intel’s Core m processors. That made the Spectre x2 a far less powerful device than the Surface Pro, or really just a typical laptop, and HP says it heard that customers wanted more. So it’s updated the machine this year to use Core i processors — real ones, not the Core m-style processors that Intel decided to rename Core i last year.
The upside of this is that the Spectre x2 should be capable of doing more than just casual web browsing. The downside is that it might run a bit hotter, it now includes a fan (which will make it louder), and it’s going to have shorter battery life. HP is estimating just eight hours this year, down from 10 hours on the original model. The tablet has also gotten a little bit thinner, and HP has cut down its bezels so it looks better overall.
HP is also updating a few other specs. The tablet still has a 12-inch display, but now it has a 3000 x 2000 resolution, up from 1920 x 1280 on the original. This model comes with a 360GB SSD, instead of a 128GB SSD. And the tablet’s two USB ports have been switched to USB-C.
While there’s no one game-changing upgrade here, these all add up to put the Spectre x2 into a much more premium space, where it’ll have an easier time going head to head with the Surface Pro. It’ll go on sale next month with a starting price of $999.99.
The other big release from HP today is a new Envy 13 laptop. It’s a metal laptop that’s essentially HP’s answer to the MacBook Air. This year, its bezels have been narrowed down quite a bit so that the whole laptop is about 0.8 inches narrower and 0.4 inches shorter. At it actually looks a bit like Dell’s XPS 13, which makes sense since it’s competing in the same space.
HP had already refreshed the Envy 13 with Kaby Lake processors, so the rest of the specs are staying pretty much the same here. It has a 13.3-inch 1080p display, a 128GB SSD (the old model started at 256GB), 8GB of RAM, and an estimated 14 hours of battery life. The new model also ditches HDMI to add an extra USB-C port, so there are now two USB-C ports and two traditional USB 3 ports.
The laptop looks nice and feels sturdy. And while it isn’t as immediately catchy as the Surface Laptop, it feels like HP has a solid answer to Microsoft’s latest challenger. The Envy 13 starts at $1,049.99 and includes full Windows 10.
Those are the two big changes to HP’s lineup today, but it actually has two other laptops that it’s updating as well. The Envy 17 is now a little bit thinner and comes with discrete graphics, Nvidia’s GeForce 940MX, by default. And the Envy x360 15 is getting updated with slimmer bezels, making the whole machine a little bit smaller.
Correction May 22nd, 2:56PM ET: This article initially referred incorrectly to the Spectre x2 as the Elite x2 and the Envy 13 as the Elite 13 in several locations. We regret the errors.
Correction May 24th, 1:35PM ET: The Spectre x2 does have a fan, unlike what an HP representative initially told us, and is thinner than its predecessor, not thicker, as the company’s press material initially indicated.
The United Nations’ refugee agency has partnered with Google to launch a new website aimed at answering the five most common questions about the Syrian refugee crisis. The “Searching for Syria” site launched on Monday and will be featured on the Google home page “in selected countries,” according to a press release from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
Searching for Syria combines data from the UNHCR and Google to answer five questions: “what was Syria like before the war?”; “what is happening in Syria?”; “who is a refugee?”; “where are Syrian refugees going?”; and “how can I help Syrian refugees?” The site includes stories of people who have been displaced by the six-year war, alongside statistics that detail the scope of its devastation.
It also features 360-degree videos of ancient sites that have been damaged or destroyed during the conflict, as well as Google Earth imagery taken before and after the war. A link to donate to the UNHCR is included at the very bottom of the page, as well as a link to the organization’s #WithRefugees petition, which calls for guaranteed education for refugee children and adequate homes for displaced families.
“Searching for Syria aims to dispel myths and misconceptions about Syria and refugees and provide an entirely fresh look at the biggest humanitarian tragedy of today,” Filippo Grandi, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, said in a statement Monday. “This is a fantastic project with Google that allows us to pinpoint and answer the five key questions about Syrian refugees and displaced that audiences most want to know and help us rally much needed support and funding for our humanitarian effort.”
The site is currently available in English, French, German and Spanish, with an Arabic version to launch soon.
While cheaper and increasingly popular with riders, UberPool continues to be stressful service for everyone involved. Riders are lured in by dirt-cheap prices, only to become aggravated by frequent detours to pick up new passengers. Drivers complain that UberPool often means more work without necessarily more pay. And Uber’s engineers have been wrestling with how to make the service that’s core to the company’s mission a more seamless and frictionless experience.
As such, Uber’s city team in New York City have been piloting some minor changes that they say accomplish this. In the congested borough of Manhattan, a turn off one of the main north-south avenues down a numbered street can mean getting trapped in hellacious traffic. As such, riders are being prompted to walk to the closest corner or intersection for more convenient pickups, rather than have drivers deviate from their north-south route.
The same goes for drop-offs, where riders are being let out at a proximate corner rather than the exact address of their destination. Uber calls it “dynamic drop-offs,” but the result is pretty plain. If you want those cheaper fares, you’re going to have to be cool with a lot more walking. Uber began testing this feature last year, and has since rolled it out in wider use.
Uber is also taking into account things like traffic signals and bus lanes, so drivers don’t have to change lanes or zigzag across the street to pickup or drop-off riders. Based on feedback from drivers, Uber determined that the corner past the light on the right-hand side, for example, was a more stress-free pickup location.
Another change is an emphasis on efficiency over speed. That means recalculating drop-off spots during the trip and reducing the number of turns drivers make per mile by 20 percent, said Ronak Trivedi, product manager at Uber. Overall, Uber’s engineers were building a system that factored in human preferences over algorithmic data. That means listening to drivers about their preferences, and then factoring that feedback into UberPool’s core technology. “Previously, we were all about speed,” he told The Verge. “But then we started to acknowledge that computer optimization wasn’t the best experience for riders and drivers.”
To date, these changes have only come in New York City — where 25 percent of all trips are made through UberPool. Trivedi isn’t even sure how scaleable they are to other cities. His team is still trying to refine the data to determine what would work in other markets. Uber recently introduced dynamic pickups and drop-offs (more walking) in San Francisco and Washington, DC. And the city teams are being given flexibility to decide what works for them, and what doesn’t.
Still, many see the ride-hailing giant’s efforts to mimic a public bus route with UberPool as an attempt to kill off mass transit. But Uber argues that its goal is to compliment, not kill, public transportation by solving the so-called “first-mile/last-mile challenge,” a phrase used to describe the difficulty in getting people between transit hubs and their homes. There’s evidence that more people are using services like Uber and Lyft in this manner.
But in New York, as subways become more crowded and more prone to breaking down, and buses get slower, will people abandon transit for carpooling? And how will that effect future funding decisions? It’s a huge, unanswered question, and one that probably isn’t too concerning to the engineers at Uber.

The great white whale of backpacks is the one pack that fits any occasion. Buy a bag that's perfect for the daily commute and it probably won't fit all your camera gear. Buy a backpack big enough for a weekend getaway and it'll look like a deflated corpse of canvas on your way to the office. That's where the promise of modularity comes in.

The Boundary Prima System is a backpack built around the idea of adaptability. It's centered around a 25 liter Prima Pack that expands to 30 liters; the Verge (no affiliation) Case camera bag that can be removed, expanded to 10 liters, and carried separately; and a removable Fieldspace sleeve for a slim modern laptop, tablet, or documents, and all your pens, dongles, and cables. The system is designed to overcome any boundary (get it!) by adapting to work, travel, and photography.
I've been testing Boundary for a few weeks under a variety of scenarios. I used it as my carry-on bag during a recent transatlantic flight to New York City. After checking in, Boundary became my daily subway commuter bag to and from the office. Once home, Boundary became my weekender bag, allowing me to tote a weekend's worth of gear to the beach before converting Boundary into a camera bag for a suprisingly comfortable 10 mile (about 16 km) hike.
Modular design is often a great idea that's let down by execution. I can't say that about the Boundary system. The decision to make both the camera bag and laptop sleeve removable creates a truly adaptable bag. In my testing I found myself successfully using the Verge Case as both an internal and external storage vehicle for my chunky DSLR camera, lenses, and accessories. (Bonus: The bag can be placed on the ground on its side without tipping over, allowing unfettered access to your cameras and lenses). I also find the Fieldspace sleeve to be an extraordinary organizer that gives my MacBook and dongles a permanent home that I move between the Boundary pack and other smaller bags (not made by Boundary) depending upon the occasion. I also really like the Mojave tan color and black accents of my prototype pack — it has a certain Indiana Jones chic to it that I enjoy.
Taking a rest during a 10-mile hike while testing the Boundary backpack
A post shared by Trixxy (@trixxy) on May 22, 2017 at 1:12am PDT
Even when full of electronics I found the bag to be comfortable to wear even for long (10 mile) hikes through the rolling Dutch dunes. Oh, and the lavish use of seven smartly designed magnetic latches warms my heart. Any backpack company that's still using traditional two-handed flesh-pinching latches in 2017 should be ashamed of themselves.
There's nothing bad per se, but I always have a few gripes:
If you're looking for a modular, do-it-all 25 liter backpack that can expand to 30 liters (plus another 10 liters if you remove and carry the Verge Case camera bag separately) then I can recommend Boundary without exception for the Kickstarter price of $189. I can't say the same when the price hits the suggested retail price of $279.99. Not when Peak Design's 30 liter backpack lists for $289.95 (or $259.95 for the 20 liter version). Boundary is a very good $200 bag that I think many will be happy with for a very long time — it's just not Peak Design good.
Apple has begun charging small fees for three-month trials of Apple Music in some countries, according to AppleInsider. Users in Australia, Spain, and Switzerland must now pay 99 cents to trial the streaming service for three months. Apple Music trials were previously free in each country, as they are in the US and other countries.
It is not clear why Apple began charging for trials in these countries, or whether the company plans to do so in other countries. Apple initially planned to not pay royalties to artists during the three-month trials, but the company reversed course after facing a chorus of criticism from Taylor Swift and other musicians. AppleInsider speculates that the company may now be trying to recover some of those costs with paid trial periods.
In an email statement to The Verge, Apple said: "Pricing and promotions for Apple Music vary from country to country.”

Update, 5:05AM ET:  This article has been updated to include a statement from Apple.
Microsoft is widely expected to launch a new Surface Pro device tomorrow, and the company’s Surface chief has taken to Instagram today to post what appears to be a teaser. Panos Panay simply posted an image of four Surface keyboards, with the caption that there are “30 hours to go” until Microsoft’s Surface event in Shanghai. The Surface keyboards appear to be new Type Cover colors in alcantara, the same fabric that’s used on Microsoft’s new Surface Laptop.
Microsoft’s teaser comes just days after a Surface Pro leak revealed the new device looks very similar to the existing Surface Pro 4 model. Evleaks posted marketing material of what is claimed to be just a “Surface Pro” without any numbering. The new tablet / laptop hybrid doesn’t appear to include a USB-C port, just like the Surface Laptop.
Microsoft’s Surface event will take place in Shanghai tomorrow morning, and the company has promised “updates and more information” over at its news site for exact timing and potential live streaming details.
Mark Fields is out as Ford CEO and Jim Hackett is in. Ford just made the news official after it was first reported last night by The New York Times. Hacket, 62, who ran Steelcase furniture for 20 years before joining Ford, was most recently in charge of the company's autonomous vehicle subsidiary known as Ford Smart Mobility. Fields was CEO for three years — a period that saw Ford stock drop 40 percent.
“Reporting to Executive Chairman Bill Ford, Hackett will lead Ford’s worldwide operations and 202,000 employees globally. He succeeds Mark Fields, 56, who has elected to retire from Ford after a successful 28-year career with the company,” said the company in a press release. Hackett is charged with three priorities: sharpen operational execution especially in underperforming lines of business; modernizing Ford’s business by leveraging big data, AI, advanced robotics, and 3D printing; and transforming the company’s culture to ensure it keeps up with the changing times.
Smart Mobility LLC is located in Palo Alto, a long way from Ford’s headquarters in Dearborn, Michigan. "You want it separate but connected, said Mark Fields in a Verge interview last year. "The reason we wanted to do it separate is because, you have to realize that we needed to give them the flexibility and the operating structure to be able to be competitive with other technology and mobility services companies that move really fast. We didn’t want to overlay them with the Ford bureaucracy."
Ford Smart Mobility was formed in 2016 as an effort to accelerate the company’s metamorphosis into an auto and mobility company. Its aim was to aggressively pursue emerging opportunities and “be a leader in connectivity, mobility, autonomous vehicles, the customer experience and data and analytics,” according to Ford. Hackett’s promotion is a clear sign that Ford thinks the transformation isn’t happening quickly enough. Ford’s car sales are down 25 percent this year and Tesla recently overtook both Ford and GM in terms of market capitalization.
Update May 22nd, 8:34 AM: Story updated with details from Ford’s official announcement.
In May, journalist Matthew Caruana Galizia published a series of posts to Facebook, alleging that that Malta’s Prime Minister, Joseph Muscat, had engaged in corrupt practices. Days later, Galizia found himself locked out of his account, while several of the posts were deleted.
Galizia is part of the team that broke the Panama Papers story last year, and his reporting comes weeks before the country is scheduled to hold an election in June. He noted that he didn’t see the story covered much in traditional papers, so he turned to Facebook to reach a wider audience. “The response was incredible. I never expected anything like it.”
Following the publication of the posts, Prime Minister Muscat threatened to sue the journalist for libel, and on May 16th, Galizia was locked out of his account, according to The Guardian, although it’s not immediately clear if the government had a hand in the lockout.
In a statement, a spokesperson for Facebook told The Verge that it’s looking into the incident. “We are investigating these posts and have spoken with Mr. Caruana Galizia so that he can publish what he needs to, without including unnecessary private details that could present safety risks. If we find that we have made errors, we will correct them.”
The incident raised concerns about how the social media company moderates content online, and Galizia told The Guardian that the incident “was enlightening because I realised how crippling and punitive this block is for a journalist.”

Up until this year, Tesla provided a handy perk for owners: they could charge their vehicles up at any of the company’s Supercharger stations for free. Last year, Tesla announced that it would phase the program out in favor of a modest pricing scheme for owners after January 1st. On Friday, Tesla said that new users still have a way to get free charging: get another driver to give you a referral code.
Starting on Friday, “existing owners can give free, unlimited Supercharging to up to five friends by sharing their referral code,” according to a Tesla spokesperson. Current owners who decide to purchase a new vehicle will continue to receive free Supercharging as well.
Previously, drivers had to have purchased a car by January 1st and taken delivery of the vehicle by April 1st in order to qualify for the free charging. The company extended that deadline slightly in January, but for new owners that missed the cutoff and purchased a car before the introduction of the referral program, Tesla will extend free charging for them, as though they received a referral from another driver. Existing drivers who already own a Tesla will continue to receive free charging, even if they purchase a new.
Moving forward, drivers without a referral code be able to use 400 kWh of power for free per year, and will pay $.40 for each minute spent at one of the stations after charging is complete. The company made the shift after drivers began to complain that the stations were becoming increasingly congested, with drivers parking their vehicles at them for hours at a time. As the company works to ramp up production this year, it’s also planning to expand its infrastructure of charging stations around the country.
Earlier today, The Guardian published a series of reports about Facebook’s internal rules on moderating graphic content, providing new insight into how the company determines what its users can post. The series paints a picture of a social media network that is drowning in content, using rules that are at times seemingly contradictory.
The Guardian’s series, Facebook Files, reveal some of the site’s internal manuals concerning credible threats of violence, non-sexual child abuse, graphic violence, and cruelty to animals. The newspaper explains that it has reviewed more than 100 internal “training manuals, spreadsheets and flowcharts,” that help guide the site’s moderators when content is reported.
Facebook’s documents reveal a line that the company is trying to navigate: provide a platform for free speech while also avoiding real-world harm. The site utilizes some automated systems to proactively eliminate content, such as child sexual abuse or terrorism, but what’s left falls to teams of moderators. In the Credible Violence documents, the manual notes that “people commonly express distain or disagreement by threatening or calling for violence in generally facetious and unserious ways.” It also provides examples of where some statements are acceptable to keep on the site (“I’m going to kill you John!”) and what should be removed (“I’m going to kill you John, I have the perfect knife to do it!”)
The guidelines ask moderators to determine the difference between someone blowing off steam, and a serious threat, pointing to instances where posts detailing specific threats, timing, and methods are given priority over more general ones. The site also outlines specific groups of vulnerable individuals (such as heads of state or specific police officers) and groups (homeless or Zionists), which gets automatically deleted or escalated.
There are significant gray areas, however. The site’s guidelines specifically state that “photos and videos documenting animal abuse,” is permitted in order to raise awareness. While the site does “not action” images of child abuse, videos of said abuse is marked as disturbing. Users attempting to harm themselves is also allowed, because it “doesn’t want to censor or punish people in distress who are attempting suicide.”
According to The Guardian, moderators review millions of reports of suspected content, and because of the amount, “moderators often feel overwhelmed by the number of posts they have to review – and they make mistakes, particularly in the complicated area of permissible sexual content.” Facebook’s head of global policy management, Monika Bickert, ‎told The Guardian that the company’s diverse audience means that there’s wide range of what’s considered acceptable behavior, and that some comments might violate Facebook’s policies in some contexts, but not others.
In a statement provided to The Verge, Bickert noted that user safety is of upmost importance:
Keeping people on Facebook safe is the most important thing we do. Mark Zuckerberg recently announced that over the next year, we'll be adding 3,000 people to our community operations team around the world — on top of the 4,500 we have today — to review the millions of reports we get every week, and improve the process for doing it quickly. In addition to investing in more people, we're also building better tools to keep our community safe. We’re going to make it simpler to report problems to us, faster for our reviewers to determine which posts violate our standards and easier for them to contact law enforcement if someone needs help.
In recent months, high-profile incidents, such as the removal of an image from the Vietnam War, and a killing broadcast on Facebook Live, prompted Facebook to adjust policies or to hire an additional moderators to screen content. Such incidents have highlighted the ease of which such content can be posted and shared with users, and that the company’s responses have been lacking. Earlier this month, Facebook reported that it has just shy of two billion users, which means that it will need to continually scale up its protections for its users.

My day starts at 7AM. I get up, brush my teeth, throw on tinted SPF moisturizer, and leave my Queens, New York apartment by, ideally, 7:30. My usual first stop is the Starbucks next to my subway station, which inevitably adds at least 15 minutes to my commute because regardless of what I order, living in New York means dealing with millions of people at all times. It’s the best.
Over the past couple weeks, however, I’ve changed my morning game. At the behest of my dad, I started using the Starbucks app to order ahead. Now, as I’m walking out the door, I put in an order for a turkey bacon egg white sandwich and a grande black iced tea lemonade with no sugar and light ice. The app remembers my order, too. By the time I get to the coffee shop, which is about 10 minutes from my place, my drink and sandwich are waiting on the counter for me. I walk in, grab them, and walk out literally three seconds later. This means no more dealing with lines of 15 people or interacting with anyone before 8AM.
The high I get from bypassing waiting people is fantastic. I’m always a little smug when I one-up waiting customers by grabbing my order from seemingly out of nowhere. I’m a mobile ordering convert, although I do have some trepidation whenever I do it.
Starbucks rolled mobile ordering out nationwide in 2015. Other fast food chains, like McDonald’s, Dunkin’ Donuts, and even TGI Fridays are either testing or already implementing the feature. Apparently people loved Starbucks’ mobile ordering so much that in-person customers were actually repelled by the store when they saw tons of people waiting at the counter. They left thinking the wait would be too long. So far, I haven’t run into major wait issues, but I’m also constantly surprised at how the baristas keep up with both incoming online and in-person orders.
This is my shout out to baristas. I want them to know I feel slightly guilty avoiding them in my quest to optimize my weekday morning routine. Am I a bad person for using mobile ordering? Although I truly love it, I always feel slightly bad when I take advantage of it. It almost feels unfair to other customers. I also like humans and want them to have jobs. It’s just, man, getting to work on time is important, as is an extra 15 minutes of sleep.
A lot of New York City residents pride themselves on their ability to avoid human interaction. Entire ad campaigns prey on this inclination. Look at these two Seamless ads from the subway:
Or revisit this Sex and The City scene in which Miranda meets the real woman on the other end of her Chinese takeout order. Sure, takeout ordering in the early 2000s still involved talking on the phone, but it cut back on human interaction. What’s particularly ironic about this clip is Miranda feels like the butt of a joke when her takeout woman knows her order by heart. This is arguably one of the best features of mobile ordering.
Still, I feel the same way ordering ahead as I do about self-checkout at grocery stores. I’m happy to not rely on other humans to progress my day, but also guilty for going around them. It really doesn’t have to do with humans sucking. It’s more about making the most of my time. Everything is about me.
I haven’t figured out how to reconcile my guilt. I’m definitely not going to stop using the Starbucks app, so I think the thing to do is visit local coffee shops on weekends. (My guilt is also over supporting a mega-corporation instead of my local spot.) When I have the time, I pay a little more and go to my locally owned cafe for an iced matcha latte. I’m starting to view mobile ordering as a necessary evil to achieve a less stressful day in which I’m actually on time to work. When I can, though, I’m all here to support the world’s humans by waiting in line, chatting with baristas, and actually accepting the rhythm of New York City, which is always a little infuriating and never as fast as I want.
Marc Andreessen’s pithy observation that "software is eating the world" has been popular (and true) for more than half a decade now, but I’ve come to find it only describes the development of the tech industry partially. Even as apps like WhatsApp, Snapchat, and Uber turn startups into multibillion-dollar ventures, there’s still a hardware component underlying all of them. As the battle for future mobile users shifts to the realm of personal assistants and machine-learning automation, there’s still a physical object that all of that software runs on.
As a technology reviewer, I’ve always cared more about the physical device. How big are the bezels around the screen? Is the USB port at the bottom smooth and polished or does it cut into my palm? And does the thing have a headphone jack? Looking at the way tech fans have responded to recent news, I’m inclined to think that I’m among the majority on this issue. Software is absolutely of paramount importance, and in most cases it’s the cause for why we fall in love with this or that gadget, but ultimately it’s the hardware that we love.
The ghost incites feelings that we then associate with the shell.
Five years ago, Microsoft was the architect of the world’s most popular and most profitable operating system and office software, but it was loved only by tribalist fanboys. Its Xbox, on the other hand, had more widespread appreciation, though it wasn’t until Microsoft turned into a proper hardware manufacturer — producing the Surface Pro, Surface Book, Surface Studio, and most recently the Surface Laptop — that it became a universal darling. Microsoft is now one of the most exciting companies in tech, in part because it’s morphed into an underdog, but also because it’s pushing industrial design boundaries with fresh and unique new hardware.
Samsung has undergone a similar transformation. It used to be the cheap Apple copycat, but then it recognized the value of appealing, high-quality design in attracting long-term user loyalty, and now it too is among the world’s favorite tech companies. There are legitimate, unabashed Samsung fans now.
Sony and HTC are also helpful examples, insofar as neither has been a leader among phone makers for years, but both still command a passionate following based on their previous products. There’s no denying that HTC once led the world when it came to refined smartphone design, and Sony’s history as a hardware innovator hardly needs recounting. It’s because they gave their fans a physical thing to channel their love and affection into that both of these brands still enjoy such lasting loyalty today.
Turn to pure software companies, on the other hand, and you’ll see a distinctly different picture. Facebook is used daily by something close to 1.3 billion people and recently crossed the 2-billion-user mark, but few would argue that they love it. Uber has become an essential service in Silicon Valley, but most of its riders use it while battling through a distinct sense of ambivalence. Even Amazon, which has been indispensable to many people’s lives for years, benefited greatly from its introduction of the Kindle and, later, the Echo speaker as the home of its Alexa voice assistant.
At Google I/O this past week, I got another affirmation of this belief that hardware is the thing that pulls in eyeballs and affection most readily. Google, basically, had none. Everything happening in Mountain View these days is about blending artificial intelligence and machine learning into everyday tools and services, and there wasn’t a new Google Home speaker like there was last year to give a corporeal manifestation to these efforts. I’ve no doubt that the work Google is doing now will prove fruitful down the line and make future Android and Chrome OS devices that much more enticing — but in the short term, people were left a little disappointed by the absence of new Google gadgets to gawk at and consider.
Physical things anchor our gadget lust in the real world and ultimately soak up whatever goodwill the software on those gadgets engenders. Yes, people have their favorite apps, but the appreciation for an app’s quality rarely translates into love for its maker. With hardware, on the other hand, a great user experience is almost always converted into brand loyalty. That’s part of Apple’s grand success, it’s the catalyst for growing fan appreciation for Microsoft and Amazon, and it was the thing that made Google I/O feel a bit boring.
This week Bungie finally took the wraps off of Destiny 2, the long-awaited sequel to the vast, online sci-fi shooter. We learned a lot: the new Destiny will be more approachable for new players, it’ll make it easier to manage loot, and it will introduce clans and other new social features. Destiny 2 will also feature four brand new areas to explore — and like the original game, they look gorgeous.
The new game will introduce three new planets, including Titan, Io, and Nessus. They’re joined by Earth, where the action has shifted from Old Russia to an area called the European Dead Zone. Each environment looks to bring something new to the experience. The surface of Titan is completely covered in a vast ocean, for instance, so players will explore abandoned, sinking human settlements surrounded by water. Nessus, meanwhile, is a tiny planetoid completely overrun by the cybernetic Vex.
Players won’t be able to explore these new worlds until Destiny 2 launches on September 8th (and possibly a bit later for PC gamers). But you can get a taste of what to expect with the screenshots below.
At The Verge, we recognize that great design is about paying attention to the details. Here we call out just one thing, a design element we appreciate on  the cars we test drive that is brilliant, simple, or a mere marvel.
When I drove the Rolls-Royce Dawn, I was smitten by many of its fine details: cashmere headlining, lambswool floor mats, the retractable Spirit of the Ecstasy adorning the hood. But if I had to pick to one element that gives this cabriolet a stately presence, it’s the British brand’s choice to include doors hinged at the rear that swing out in a dramatic flourish. Rolls-Royce calls the distinctive design choice “the coach door.” But I prefer the iconic pop cultural terminology: the suicide door.
When you pull up in a Dawn, it’s clear, you are no mere UberX passenger. From the interior, you pull the thin handle with a gentle nudge, and the heavy door swings out at dramatic, yet measured angle. It’s a delicate exercise in firm but subtle craftsmanship, and shows off the company’s exemplary craftsmanship. As the door gradually swings, you get a peek of the sidewalk, which allows you pause to straighten your skirt or smooth your sport coat. It is in the studied design execution that Rolls-Royce shines: the handle itself is light to the touch and though the door is substantial, it doesn’t fly out in a manner that causes you to stumble and scrape the curb. In other words, in this architecture, Rolls-Royce has perfected the effortless departure.
Because you are in a Rolls-Royce, it’s likely that you are being chauffeured, and you may never even touch a door handle. The driver or the valet will hold your door open, taking hold of the gleaming stainless steel exterior handle centered below the exterior mirrors and the edge of the windshield. The handles are actually worth noting — elongated, thick, and shaped in the form language of late art deco sculpture. Rolls-Royce says that 80 percent of the panels on the Dawn are original to the car, so placement of the doors accentuates the seamless and smooth A pillar. The handles draw your eyes to the center but taper neatly into the rear quarters and onward to the high wheel haunches. Because of the position of the door, it’s almost as if your driver is forced to step aside and make way for you in the exercise of opening it. Once completely open, there’s no awkward shifting or hoisting yourself out. You swivel, rise, and exit. When you show up in the Rolls-Royce Dawn, the suicide doors swing open and you have arrived.
It’s understandable that Rolls-Royce and other carmakers continue to resist the pop cultural slang reference to this age old, yet distinctive feature. A current debate rages on over minimizing the taking one’s life, fueled by the Netflix drama 13 Reasons Why. We’ve moved beyond the punk rock era when it was in vogue to name your band after the act of self-harm (see Suicide Machines and Suicidal Tendencies) and films like Heathers that made suicide satiric folly. It was only last year that the Marvel-inspired Suicide Squad hit the big screen. But as Jim Kocs reported for the classic car insurance company Hagerty, car companies always avoided this term in official press materials. “To be clear, no carmaker has ever called rear-hinged doors “suicide doors.” That would have been, well, marketing suicide. As car buffs, though, we love latching on to such pieces of jargon.”
Notes from the driver’s seat
While the Dawn isn’t the top-of-the-line Rolls Royce (that badge goes to the flagship Phantom, that starts at $417,825) the MSRP on the 2017 Dawn is $341,125. The test car I drove was priced at $412,430, and the largest add-ons included the $27,630 USA package and the $10,600 Andalusian white paint job, a cost difference which equals out to the price of a mid-range luxury coupe. But if you have to ask, then you’re probably not buying a Rolls-Royce and you certainly don’t buy this car if you are concerned with economy. Economy of price nor fuel isn’t central to the brand ethos. The Dawn earns only 14 miles per gallon, similar to its closest relative, the hardtop Wraith coupe, which it shares the 122.5-inch wheelbase, suspension, and drivetrain. The hefty Dawn weighs 5776 pounds, and produces 563 horsepower from its substantial V12 engine. But the real story is how well all these numbers come together. To drive this coupe to isn’t about the ride, but more the glide.
And the fact that no historian can verify the origins of this bit of slang only adds to the mystique, which is cool, but emo-tragic, dating back to an era when cars had no seat belts, and fatal accident rates were much higher. If the door became unlatched, the results could be perilous. Norman Mayersohn wrote in the The New York Times, “What happened next hardly needs to be said out loud. In the era before seat belts, if the passenger was leaning against the door, out he went.”
Other theories about origins of the suicide doors continue to fuel rumors. “Another urban legend maintains that 1930s gangsters liked the door design because it made pushing someone out of a moving car easier. If that were true, though, wouldn’t the correct term be “homicide doors?” Kocs wrote.
Before cars, horse carriages used this rear-hinged design. Suicide doors were favored in pre-war automobiles throughout the the 1930s. Ken Gross, an automotive historian, explained their evolution in an interview with the Verge. “They were fairly common on many domestic and imported car makes in the 1930s — even Ford used them on some models. A forward-opening door — either in front or back -- permitted easier access and egress — especially for women in long skirts or dresses. Hinging the front door at the rear also facilitated a more slanted windshield.” Rolls-Royce used suicide doors on many of its cars including the round doors on the original Phantom produced in 1925. Other bespoke luxury automakers favored this statement making design. “Besides Rolls-Royce, Figoni and Falaschi coachwork on Delahaye, Talbot-Lago and Delage, with forward-opening front doors accounted for many gorgeous cars,” Gross said.  Yet it was the 1961 Lincoln Continental wins the unofficial award for the most iconic suicide door design.

Modern day examples of suicide doors show more practical applications to maximize the use of space such as the BMW i3, the foregone Honda Element, and many four-door pickups.
But in the ultra luxury field where Rolls-Royce plays, suicide doors are about making a statement. When Rolls-Royce joined forces with parent company BMW in 1998, it resurrected the coach doors on its 2004 Rolls-Royce Phantom. Rolls-Royce continues to own this feature across its product line. But if you’re in the delirious state of mind to drive this hand-built sculptural object of beauty around town, the Dawn has stunning impact when the six-layer cloth top is dropped. And when the doors are open there’s something particularly decadent about a convertible car that includes a discreet storage system in the door panel to store an umbrella.
The piercing presence of a Rolls-Royce convertible is not meant to be about discretion. It’s about being noticed. On the Dawn, suicide doors slay.



The Syfy Channel released its first trailer for the upcoming third season of Dark Matter. While the channel some heavy-hitting shows like The Expanse and The Magicians, Dark Matter is a fun, pulpy space opera that hails back to the days when shows like Farscape and Stargate SG-1 ruled the airwaves, and this latest trailer looks like we have a fun season before us.
The teaser serves as a good indication of what to expect next season: lots of action, plenty of dubious characters, and a new big arc following some of the surprises at the end of last season. The first two seasons are currently streaming on Netflix, and it’s well worth picking up if you’re looking for some lighter sci-fi action to binge through. Joseph Mallozzi, who ran Stargate SG-1, Stargate Atlantis, and Stargate Universe for Syfy, has a five year plan scheduled out for the show, and it’ll be interesting to see where this season takes us.
Dark Matter, if you haven’t seen it yet, follows the crew of a starship called the Raza. In the first episode, we learn that the crew had been put into stasis, and while asleep, their memories were wiped. The crew eventually discover that they were all hardened criminals, but unburdened by their histories, they set off to figure out how to make their way in the galaxy, running afoul of major corporations, mercenaries, other criminals, and even themselves.
The show sits nicely alongside Syfy’s other show about a crew onboard a spaceship, Killjoys. Together (and along with The Expanse), they help fill the years-long lack of science fiction shows about space on the channel. Both shows are set to air their third seasons in June: Dark Matter returns on June 9th, while Killjoys returns on June 30th.
Escape rooms have become incredibly pervasive over the past few years, but they’re not usually thought of as fantastic storytelling platforms. They’re more about the premise: giving participants a way to buy into the idea that they’re locked in a single location for a given amount of time, so they can create their own personal tale of how they collaborated with friends to get out, or failed miserably.
In the Los Feliz neighborhood of Los Angeles, a show called The Nest has been changing that. Designed as a side project by a duo from Walt Disney Imagineering — the creative group behind the company’s elaborate theme parks — it utilizes serialized radio play elements and detailed set design to tell the tragic life story of a woman named Josie. The Nest may involve sending a pair of participants into an enclosed space and, yes, they may need to collect clues to make their way out. But the project transcends its escape room and video game influences, turning a well-known format into a dramatic and emotional experience that is utterly unique.
“The idea of doing our own show had always been brewing,” Jarrett Lantz tells me over the phone. Lantz and co-creator Jeff Leinenveber are the founders of Scout Expedition Co., the company behind The Nest. The duo first met through Imagineering — both worked on attractions at Shanghai Disney — but outside of the office they found themselves increasingly intrigued by the world of immersive theater. That led to non-Disney collaborations with groups like Third Rail Projects and the interactive horror play Delusion, until they decided to create their own immersive production from the ground up. “I think that's the goal for a lot of designers,” Lantz admits. “Just to go through the entire process of putting on a show, because that's something that we had never done before”
The Nest begins with a letter. A woman named Josephine Annette Carroll has died and left her storage unit to her next of kin — which, audience members discover, is where they come in. They enter the storage unit (actually a repurposed structure in Leinenveber’s backyard) with only a flashlight to illuminate their path. An old-school tape recorder awaits inside, and as participants explore the story unfolds in a series of audio cassette recordings, labyrinthian mazes of junk, and mementos from Josie’s life.
“We say it's an immersive experience that has elements of a lot of different things,” Lantz explains, citing escape rooms and games like Firewatch and Gone Home as vital influences. “A little bit of immersive theater elements [are there], but obviously missing the actors and actresses themselves. It's not really any of those things, but it has a couple elements of each.”
Imagine the way holotapes are used to dole out story beats in Fallout 4, and you’ll get a sense of how the audio cassette portion of The Nest works. Audience members — only two go through the show at a time — find the tapes scattered throughout the space, and each recording reveals a part of Josie’s story, starting with her as a young, aspiring writer, and eventually tracking the triumphs and tragic disappointments of her life. But it’s a fragmented, non-linear narrative, participants hearing a given tape only when they find it and choose to listen. Which tapes they discover, and what order they hear them in, can lead to radically different interpretations of the same events.
“There's 12 main tapes, and then a bunch of secondary tapes,” Lantz says. The main tapes cover pivotal moments in Josie’s life — a career decision, for example, or a particular struggle with her husband, Tom — and are carefully placed in the space so audiences can’t miss them. Those secondary tapes, however, flesh out her story, adding new perspectives and insights. “Depending on the different filler tapes you find, you end up with a different impression of all those characters,” he explains. “Cause if you listen to some tapes, people are like, ‘Oh, Tom is so nice.’ And then other people are, ‘Tom is such an asshole!’”
When I experienced The Nest, I found myself on the latter team when it came to Tom, which seemed like a minor miracle of storytelling unto itself. There I was, looking through lockers and cabinets in the dark, and I’d been pulled in so completely that I was outright angry at what her husband had done. As the show worked towards its climax, I listened to one of the final tapes, guarding myself against what felt like an inevitable revelation in the slow-motion car crash that was Josie’s life. My stomach dropped when what I feared came to pass. The puzzles and locked doors that are so familiar from escape rooms were fun unto themselves and kept me constantly engaged, but they were simply the framework upon which Lantz and Leinenveber hung Josie’s story, and the combination resulted in a bracing emotional experience full of pain and regret.
It’s a testament not just to the narrative contained on the tapes, but to the storytelling done by the physical space itself — something that the creators’ work as Imagineers made them particularly suited for. “We are most confident in being set designers, and creating the set,” Leinenveber explains. “We wanted the set to be able to inform the story just as much as the writing.”
That approach is felt throughout the show. A set of old high school lockers that play an important puzzle-solving role evoke Josie’s internal angst and struggles with self-confidence, while a hidden space discovered towards the end reveals the single-minded obsession that overtook her in the wake of a particularly tragic personal loss. It’s not design for the sake of design; it’s character and story, expressed through physical objects the audience can touch and feel.
“There is a big difference between working at Imagineering and working on a small show like this,” Lantz says. “At Imagineering, when we decide what story we want to tell, we decide exactly what we want, we draw everything, and then we produce everything that we draw. And of course everything’s custom, and everything's millions and millions of dollars.” Working on an indie show, he says, requires working with found objects that can be discovered at estate sales or auctions, leading to a process of investigation and iteration that in the case of The Nest ended up transforming the story itself.
The lockers that I found so pivotal are perhaps the best example. “We went to this auction, and they happened to have a couple of sets of high school lockers,” Leinenveber explains. “That wasn't on our list of things to buy for the show. But when we came across them and they were the right price, we thought, ‘We need to get these, and we'll figure out a way to incorporate these into the show.’ Now I can't imagine the show without it.”
That combination of scrappy invention and high-end expertise is vital to the success of The Nest. And much like a blockbuster Hollywood filmmaker making an indie film in order to take some creative risks, building their own smaller shows allows both Leinenveber and Lantz to experiment in ways they can’t while working on big-budget theme parks.
“We've learned so much from Imagineering that applies to shows of any scale. Guest flow, operations; that's something we have to think about every day,” says Lantz. But those large-scale projects bring with them the stakes of large-scale investment. Scout Expedition Co., on the other hand, is a creative playground without any expectations but their own.
Leinenveber puts it best. “We want to use that opportunity to take big risks,” he says, and the constant sell-outs The Nest has been enjoying point to it paying off. (Tickets for the show’s recent June extension disappeared in less than 20 minutes, with the final July extension going on sale next month.) But it’s also a reminder of how nascent so many immersive mediums actually are. Escape rooms may be popping up everywhere, but creatively they’re still in their infancy, with endless undiscovered potential for creative exploration and new modes of storytelling. The Nest reveals one new direction to go in, but there are countless other avenues for creators to walk down and explore.
Scout Expedition Co., however, is already looking beyond The Nest’s unique audio drama-meets-escape room format. “We have lots of ideas for shows in the future, and they run the gamut in terms of style,” Lantz says. “We have ideas for Halloween stuff, of course, because it’s Los Angeles and you have to have a Halloween show. We also really want to focus on doing stuff that's more accessible to a wider audience.” They ultimately consider their work immersive theater, he says, which despite increasing visibility is still a niche format. “How do we expand that? How do you crack a more mainstream audience for this sort of thing?”
“We want to totally flip the script every time — or at least take a left turn,” adds Leinenveber. “If right now we don't have any actors, maybe next time we do. Or maybe next time it's a large-scale show with a bigger group. We just want to keep challenging ourselves.”
Tickets for the July run of The Nest will be available on June 18th at 3PM ET / 12PM PT. Presales will be available through the show’s newsletter.

This week was all about Google I/O including the announcement of Google Assistant for iOS, standalone VR headsets, and more — but when it comes to deals, the biggest highlights of the week are great discounts on laptops.
You may remember when we featured the Dell XPS 15 deal back in March, which was popular among The Verge readers. For $650 off, you can now get a fantastic deal on the same laptop with 16GB of RAM instead of 32GB. Our other favorite deal, exclusive to The Verge, is an additional $50 off the already discounted Lenovo 14-inch Flex 4 Series.
Looking for gaming deals? Check out Polygon’s roundup here.
Good Deals is a weekly roundup of the best deals on the internet, curated by Vox Media's commerce editor, Chloe Reznikov, in collaboration with The Verge's editorial team. You can submit deals to deals@theverge.com and find more Good Deals here.
Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy.
This post has been updated on May 21st to include the above Monoprice deal.


This was "Upfront" week for the TV industry, where everyone gets together for big presentations and parties and mingling and dealmaking. But more importantly for us, it's when networks reveal first looks at their upcoming shows.
That means there are a ton of trailers this week — more than I have the time to watch! — and for shows that in many cases aren't coming out until fall. I've included a few select ones below, but I want to direct you to roundups of all the big networks' new pilots in case you're interested:
In case that’s not enough for you, check out 13 more trailers below.
After a lot of delays, some messy production stories, and the departure of show runner and beloved TV show maker Bryan Fuller, CBS finally seems to be moving in on an actual start date for Star Trek: Discovery, and we got a first trailer for the show this week. For all the tumultuous production tales, the show seems to be looking pretty good. It's supposed to start some time this fall.
I'm trying to be kind here, so I'll say that I think the Emoji Movie's core conceit — a boy learning that it's okay to experience more than one emotion — is a nice premise. But that said, the highlight of this trailer is a branding opportunity for Candy Crush, so I don't have high hopes. Parents, prepare yourselves: it comes out July 28th.
CW's newest superhero series is Black Lightning. Despite being another DC character, the show won't join the shared universe occupied by the network's other series, like The Flash and Arrow. Maybe that's an odd choice, but maybe it'll open up more possibilities for this new entry. It certainly looks to be taking a somewhat more serious tone. There doesn't appear to be a start date just yet.
City of Ghosts profiles activists and journalists in Syria risking their lives to document ISIS. The filmmakers appears to have incredible access into the secretive world of this group of rebels, and so far, reviews have all been glowing. City of Ghosts comes to theaters July 14th, before eventually heading to Amazon.
The new Planet of the Apes films have had surprisingly personal storylines threaded between their explosive scenes of violence, and this new trailer for War for the Planet of the Apes seems to be about finding a balance between the two of them. But of course, the film’s still a summer blockbuster at heart: it comes out July 14th.
Alison Brie stars in this new comedy from Netflix about 1980s wrestlers that looks about as outrageous as everything in the ’80s. The show comes from several names behind Orange is the New Black, so it seems to have found a fitting home. Its first season debuts June 23rd.
Marvel has another TV series in the works — this time, for Fox. The Gifted is an X-Men spinoff about mutants discovering their powers — it feels weirdly reminiscent of Heroes... which could be a good thing or a very, very bad thing. It starts sometime this fall.
Emma Stone and Steve Carrell star in this very funny looking and depressingly relevant re-imagination of the 1973 tennis match between Billie Jean King and Bobby Riggs, known as The Battle of the Sexes. The film comes from the directing duo behind Little Miss Sunshine, and it looks like it taps into the same kind of occasionally strange and uncomfortable humor that film excelled at. It comes out September 22nd.
Cary Fukunaga, the director behind True Detective season one, returns to haunting murder cases with The Alienist, a period piece about a secret investigation into murders of child sex workers in 1890s New York. Fukunaga wrote and executive produced the series — he was supposed to direct it all too, but eventually pulled out. There are some big actors involved, so this is worth keeping an eye on.
This animation looks beautiful. The Breadwinner is about a 12-year-old girl dealing with life in Afghanistan under the Taliban. It comes from several of the people behind Song of the Sea and The Secret of Kells, both of which received Oscar nominations for best animated film, so expected to hear more about this one later this year. It comes out in North America sometime this fall.
FX's new series Snowfall looks at the rise in crack use in 1980s Los Angeles and the different players involved: namely, powerful white guys making lots of money, and black kids who end up seeing the consequences of it. It starts July 5th.
After premiering at Cannes to... strange reactions... Netflix has put out a full trailer for Okja, a film about a girl and the giant pig-creature she loves. It comes from the director behind The Host and Snowpiercer, has a bunch of great actors involved, and just generally looks fantastic — it's weird how much this feels like a Bong Joon Ho film just from the way the characters move. It comes out June 28th.
I'm not saying I'm happy about this. I'm just saying that The Big Bang Theory is one of the most popular show on TV. So prepare to see this around.
Every once in a while, a friend attends therapy for the first time and starts breathlessly reporting all the revelations she’s learned. In many of these circumstances, it’s all I can do to stop myself from yelling that I, or any of her other friends, could just as easily have told her these same “discoveries.”
But I shouldn’t throw stones. When I announced that I finally realized I wanted to report on science, my best friend rolled her eyes at this obvious (to her) fact.
Almost nobody is self-aware, says psychologist Tasha Eurich in her new book Insight. So many of us are obsessed with “knowing ourselves” and spend hours contemplating who we are and how we appear to others. But few truly know either our own desires and goals (what she calls “internal self-awareness”) or how others see us (or “external self-awareness.”) The Verge spoke to Eurich about myths about self-awareness, how we can fix our delusion, and whether we even want to know the truth.
This interview has been lightly edited and condensed for clarity.
Is it always better to know? You’ve said that, even though it might be somewhat painful, being self-aware is ultimately helpful. But why is that true? I feel like there’s been a body of literature on how a bit of positive delusion can get us through life more easily.
What I found in my research is that when we are self-aware, we’re happier, we make better decisions at work and at home, we raise more mature children, the list goes on. Leaders who are more self-aware even lead more profitable companies.
There is a body for research from the 1980s that said little bit of self-delusion is a good thing. The unfortunate reality is that in the 1990s and onward, most of that research  was sort of exposed as being not very empirically true. Not to say they were being intentionally misleading, but there is work showing that if people have rose-colored glasses, they might feel good in some sense, but they also tend to be less happy, less successful and, equally importantly, the people around them tend to view them pretty negatively, which has bad effects.
Why are they more unhappy? Is it because they realize on some level that they’re deluding themselves?
They’re not necessarily more unhappy because they secretly know the truth. Here’s an example:  somebody is super deluded about their singing ability. They’re a pre-med student and going to quit their pre-med program to audition for The Voice, but they don’t make it past the first round.  They feel horrible. They’ve changed  the course of their life for this and it wasn’t a good choice.
It’s a silly example, but when we don’t have a clear understanding of who we are, we tend to make choices that aren’t in our best interest. We go for things that we’re not going to succeed at, or a path that we’re not suited for. When we’re delusional about ourselves, we frustrate and alienate the people around us too.
I have a question about language. If someone thinks they’re good at something when they’re not, we say they’re “not self-aware.” But if they’re deluded in the other direction and think they’re worse than they are, we don’t say they’re “not self-aware,” we say they’re “insecure.” Why the difference? Are the insecure people also not self-aware?
Just as being overly proud about what we bring to the table is bad, it’s bad to under-appreciate what our gifts are. I wouldn’t call either of those self-awareness.
Being self-aware doesn’t mean that we hate ourselves. People who see themselves clearly are more forgiving and they’re gentle and compassionate toward both themselves and others. People who are self-aware are higher in empathy and perspective-taking. It kind of does make sense because part of truly being self-aware is understanding how you come across to other people and the impact you have on them. And to be able to do that you kind of have to put yourself in their shoes.
One thing you emphasize is that the people who introspect the most aren’t any more self-aware than others. Why is this?
I found in my data that people who reported spending large amounts of time in self-reflection—everything from their thinking about their thoughts to their emotions to what they want out of life— were not only less self-aware, but were also less happy, more anxious, less satisfied with their lives and relationships. I was just floored.
It’s not that self-reflection is categorically ineffective, it’s just that so many of us fall into these hidden pitfalls. Probably the easiest way to explain this is to, as many psychologists do, blame Sigmund Freud. He was completely correct that there is an an unconscious self, with certain thoughts and feelings and emotions that we don’t have conscious access to. But where he was wrong was in thinking through psychoanalysis or anything else that we can access those parts of ourselves. No matter what we do, we can’t access a lot of these unconscious thoughts. So what people try to do when they’re self-reflecting, they say for example, why do I keep sabotaging my relationship? And inevitably that question leads you down to a path in your childhood and your most fundamental relationships and you realize you felt abandoned by your parents.
We think we find the answer because it feels right but more often than not, we’re wrong. We feel proud of ourselves for concluding that the root of all our relationship issues is something in our childhood. But even if it’s right, it doesn’t do anything to help us move forward in a productive way.
We definitely should be spending time self-reflecting. It’s just that we need to change how we’re doing it. One takeaway is to start asking ourselves “what” questions instead of “why” questions. Instead of “why am I like this, why am I sabotaging my relationships?” I can say, “ What am I going to do about it? What do I want out of this relationship?”  When we do that it starts to focus on what we can control. It focuses on the future. It focuses us on action, that’s where there really has been a lot of evidence that we can get a lot of insight.
Some people like to introspect just because it’s interesting. But some people are really scared of not being self-aware and analyze all these things to try to get there. Is this still futile?
Obsessive thinking, or rumination, is one of the kind of insidious tricks that we play on ourselves. When we ruminate, it feels like we’re doing that so we can be more self-aware. You know, if I remember this conversation over and over, surely I’ll figure out a way to do it differently in the future. When we do that, there are certain parts of our brains that are activated that prevent us from being cool and detached and curious and instead they rile us up and get us upset. So one of the biggest mistakes people make, especially self-conscious and self-critical people, is believing that type of thinking is good for them or beneficial in some way. It’s actually truly one of the worst things.
Are there any group of people who are more likely to be self-deluded? Young or old, male or female, and so on?
There was absolutely no demographic pattern in who was self-aware and who wasn’t. Men and women were equally likely and unlikely, age was not associated with increased self-awareness. It didn’t matter what your job type was or where you grew up in the world or your level of education. At first I was scratching my head but what I came away with was a sense of hope and optimism that it sort of doesn’t matter where you start off, everyone is equally likely to build that level of self-awareness. But by the same token, everyone is equally likely to be delusional if they’re not working to prevent that.
What are some ways to become more self-aware?
I wish it was as simple as saying if you do this one thing, but to keep it super simple, here are two. The first one is the five-minute daily check-in. I think that’s so powerful because it sort of prevents us from overthinking things. We say, I’m going to spend no more than five minutes at the end of every day checking in. It allows us to get that quick hit of insight without falling into any of those traps of self-examination.
I also something as simple as asking your friends, why are you friends with me? We know that people hate giving any sort of feedback and often even don’t tell us the positive effects even, so why wouldn’t you ask that?
I’ve personally done that exercise a couple times recently and I’ve been shocked at what I learned. Somebody said I was “brave and courageous” and I see myself as one of the most risk-averse people on the planet. The next level is to say, what is it that I do that is most annoying? It doesn’t mean it’s an indictment and it doesn’t need to be something we decide to work on, but it’s good information to have.
You say that one thing that’s necessary for self-awareness is, paradoxically, letting go of the truth for absolute truth, and if we keep searching for that, it won’t help us. Why not?
It goes back a lot to the Freud stuff. His belief and his practice sort of assumes that there was one singular simple explanation for everything that we do and the reality is those answers simply don’t exist.
If you get in a fight, it’s just as likely that that day you were exhausted and you had low blood sugar than that there was some neat, clear explanation. The people who are the most self-aware don’t force themselves into those simple kind of absolute truths. They’re willing to acknowledge that it’s messy.
And to be perfectly honest, no one will ever become completely self-aware. One of the really self-aware people explained it by saying that the process of self-exploration is like exploring space: there’s so much we don’t know, and that’s what makes it so exciting. They sort of remove the pressure off of themselves, and paradoxically in doing that, it helps them have a deeper, more complex appreciation of who they are.
The Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America is currently holding its annual conference in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania this weekend. This evening, the organization announced the winners of this year’s Nebula Awards, recognizing some of the best science fiction and fantasy works from last year.
io9 co-founder Charlie Jane Anders walked away with the award for Best Novel. In her acceptance speech, she said that she constantly wrestled with the idea that she wasn’t good enough to write All the Birds in the Sky, and that she hoped that her award means that the next person arguing with themselves will be able to “tell the voices to shut up and go and write their frickin’ book”. Other winners include Seanan McGuire for Best Novella, William Ledbetter for Best Novelette, and Amal El-Mohtar for Best Short Story. Denis Villeneuve’s Arrival won the Ray Bradbury Award for Outstanding Dramatic Presentation, and David D. Levine earned the Andre Norton Award for Young Adult Science Fiction and Fantasy. SFWA also awarded Jane Yolen the Damon Knight Memorial Grand Master Award.
The event’s toastmaster was Astronaut Kjell Lindgren, who spent 141 days on the International Space Station as part of the Expedition 44 and Expedition 45 missions, where he served as a flight engineer and mission specialist. You might remember him as one of the astronauts who sampled the first station-grown lettuce and took part in an EVA to upgrade the station. He spoke about how NASA was turning science fiction into science fact, and that as a science fiction fan, it was a pleasure to meet some of his heroes who wrote the stories he grew up with. “I am here today because of science fiction,” he said, “my path to space was paved with books.”
The Nebula Awards are awarded annually by SFWA, whose members nominate their favorite works from the past year. This year’s nominees are an acclaimed and diverse body of work from 2016, and all of the novels made their way onto our best of 2016 book list back in December.
Here’s the full list of winners (listed in bold) and nominees:

Uber has been charging some passengers differently based on the routes that they’re taking, according to a pair of reports in Bloomberg and Business Insider. The goal of the pricing scheme is to help entice drivers in those areas to help reduce wait times for passengers.
Traditionally, Uber has charged riders based on the mileage, time on the road, and surrounding demand. Last year, the company has been testing a route-based pricing with its UberX service in 14 cities that also use UberPool, in which it charged customers more for high-demand routes. Bloomberg spoke with Uber executives, who said that the company is using machine learning to figure out when riders are willing to pay more for their ride in certain areas.
However, drivers for those high-demand routes won’t see an increase in pay. The difference between those increased fares and the driver’s pay goes to Uber, which in turn uses it to pay for promotions, “such as dropping the price of an UberPool route from $10 to $8,” according to Business Insider. “Instead of drivers making less on the $8 fare cut, Uber will still pay them based on the $10 fare.” The company stressed in a statement to Android Headlines that riders will still know how much they’re being charged.
Last year, Uber introduced an upfront pricing model designed to remove some of the uncertainty around surge pricing during periods of high demand, while at the same time, Uber drivers have noticed and complained about the gap between their pay and what their passengers are paying in fares. Speaking to Business Insider, Daniel Graf, Uber's head of product, noted that one of the goals is to provide drivers with “consistent earnings,” saying that without them, drivers will go elsewhere. Essentially: some riders will pay more, but the excess will be used to try and reduce fares in the area.
The pricing change comes at a precarious time for the ride-share company. While the company continued to grew in 2016, it lost nearly $3 billion. It also faced numerous problems, such as allegations of sexual harassment and toxic working conditions, that it stole trade secrets from Waymo, and that it tried to hide its activities from regulators and other tech companies.
Amazon could be looking to expand its cashier-free grocery stores to the UK and Europe in the future. The company recently filed several trademark applications related to its Go stores with the UK’s Intellectual Property Office and its European Union equivalent.
The company filed applications to trademark four slogans: “No Lines, No Checkout. (No, Seriously),” “No Queue, No Checkout. (No, Seriously),” “Every Queue is a Defect,” and “Every Line is a Defect.” The slogans are similar to one used by the company when it first announced its Go stores last December. At the time, there were reports that the company intended to open around 2000 stores, although Amazon denied those plans. We’ve reached out to Amazon for comment, and will update if we hear back.
Amazon’s Go stores are designed for customers to walk in, take what they want, and leave, all without having to go through a checkout line. Customers scan their Amazon account when they enter, and the store tracks what items they pick up, charging them when they leave. The stores reportedly will only require six to ten employees per location.
Amazon still has a ways to go before it expands its stores into foreign markets, however. The first store was reportedly supposed to open in March, but technical problems have apparently pushed that back: the stores reportedly break down if there’s more than 20 people inside, while there are also issues with tracking products put back in the wrong place.
According to Bloomberg, UK grocery chains such as Tesco and Sainsbury are concerned about Amazon’s potential entry into local markets, especially as they face competition from discount grocers such as Aldi and Lidl. Last year, Amazon launched delivery service Amazon Fresh in parts of London.

Maybe I’m a little late to the hashtag-mindfulness movement, but I just recently started using a meditation app. There are plenty of articles touting the supposed benefits of meditation practices — ranging from from “charting new pathways in the brain” to remaining in a zen-like state when having a conversation about politics — and in recent years the market for mental wellness and meditation services has grown to more than $1 billion. But for me the impetus was convenience: my gym app started offering meditation practices for free, and for awhile they were shoved in my face every time I opened the app.
What’s surprised me more than my almost-immediate taking to this new feature in the app (which the gym has labeled “Headstrong”, not to be confused with the wildly popular Headspace), is how much I like wearing Apple’s wire-free AirPods while I’m using it. I know, I know: fetishizing an Apple product while trying to achieve mental clarity, through a practice that at its roots is supposed to help quell earthly desires, is borderline ridiculous. Also, big caveat! AirPods don’t fit everyone well, and ill-fitting headphones are just as irritating as having Donald Trump’s tweets read aloud to you while trying to meditate (good luck with that).
But unlike my Verge colleague Sean O’Kane, the AirPods feel good in my ears, and when I wear them I can pretty much forget they’re there. I can sit up, or lie down, or lie down and then sit up, and they’re there, but I don’t realize they’re there. There’s no neckband behind my head or cables snaking over my ears or tiny shark fins poking my ear cartilage; and there’s no dangling wire tickling the side of my face and keeping me leashed to my smartphone. I’m completely unencumbered for six or ten or fourteen minutes, or at the very least, able to convince myself I’m unencumbered, since the whole thing is still powered by a smartphone.
Since they’ve come to market I’ve worn the AirPods during a variety of activities, and in general I’ve been impressed by their staying power. I’ve walked, hiked, run, jumped rope, and lifted weights while wearing them. Somehow, they stay in my ears. The only time I’ve been in danger of losing the tiny ear dongles was when I pulled a sweatshirt over my head and one got caught in its laundry-bound path.
But during almost every activity I’m still very much aware of them, whether it’s because I’m consciously listening to a music playlist, or because someone comments on them, or because I’ve caught a glimpse of myself in a gym mirror and thought, Oh god, I’ve become one of the AirPods people.
When I’m sitting there attempting to use the meditation app, the AirPods become one less thing I have to remember to forget. I can still hear ambient noise from the outside world, but there’s also a voice whispering directly into my ears, one that feels like it’s curling up along the edges of my brain. If you’ve ever used headphones to fall asleep, you know the sensation: there’s the low hum of a TV, maybe, or the murmur of voices from another room or in the car, just enough to keep you aware of what’s going on around you, but your attention is focused on the thing you’ve chosen to listen to.
Lots of people use meditation apps without AirPods. Lots of people meditate without the use of any kind of app or guide at all. You don’t need AirPods to meditate. But for me they’ve become the surprisingly perfect accessory.



Sony has released a new video for Star Wars Battlefront II, in which the game’s creators talk about how the story came together, and how it’ll provide new insight into the Star Wars universe.
Battlefront II will hit stores later this year, and once it does, players will take the perspective of an elite Imperial unit known as Inferno Squad. In the video, game director Mark Thompson says that Motive Studios wanted to tell a “soldier’s story,” from the perspective of the Empire.
The single-player takes place after the events of Return of the Jedi, and will run up to the new sequel trilogy that includes The Force Awakens and The Last Jedi, and players will follow Commander Iden Versio, one of the Empire’s true believers. The game’s creators wanted to get inside the heads of the Imperial soldiers, so it’s “not just a faceless stormtrooper who is part of a legion who all believe in the same thing,” and that “we take [players] to a place where they can understand Iden and why she makes the decisions that she does.”
That backstory isn’t limited to just the game, either: a novel, Battlefront II: Inferno Squad, will explore the origins of the unit following the events of Rogue One.
Star Wars Battlefront II will hit stores on November 17th, 2017.
Earlier this week, the National Press Club alleged that security guards ‘manhandled’ a journalist after attempting to ask FCC commissioners a question following a press conference. Now, two senators have written a letter to FCC Chairman Ajit Pai, asking for a formal explanation.
In the letter, Senators Tom Udall (D-NM) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH) point out that the FCC sets an example when it comes to supporting the first amendment, and that they were disturbed by reports of the incident.
“Yesterday’s incident at the FCC is not an isolated one and seems to be a part of a larger pattern of hostility towards the press characteristic of this Administration,” they wrote. The pair requested a response by Friday, May 26th, asking for Pai’s description of the event and the FCC’s security policies, an explanation for the security guard’s actions, and an assurance that such incidents “will not happen again.”
The Hollywood Reporter published an oral history of Saturday Night Live’s “yuuuge year” this week, filling in the backstory of its most popular sketches, monologues, casting choices, and brushes with controversy. The piece is a celebration, accompanied by an elaborate photo spread: glamour shots of each major player in costume, and a group shot with Alec Baldwin seated at the center, chowing down on that “beautiful” chocolate cake Trump recalls so vividly from the moment he was bombing Syria.
This season of Saturday Night Live was big, unsurprising at first, as the show always sees a boost in ratings during an election year. But when Trump was elected, there was no post-election dip. By February it was clear that this would be SNL’s top-rated season in 20 years. Six months after the election, with the season finale airing tonight, those ratings have held.
The Trump Administration has given a huge cast of characters to draw from. People like Sean Spicer, Steve Bannon, Kellyanne Conway, Stephen Miller, and Jared Kushner all hold positions that wouldn’t have made someone famous enough to register in an SNL sketch in any other administration. Even Rex Tillerson’s and Jeff Sessions’ posts would have been slightly outside the average American’s interests. Celebrities are eagerly offering themselves up to play these parts. The President can’t help but publicly rage about the show, and rumors trickled out that he was particularly irate about Melissa McCarthy’s surprise turn as Spicer. For the first time in a long time, Saturday Night Live has a veneer of cool. Of mattering.
What has late-night’s most famous institution done from on top of that hill?
In the THR piece, writer and Weekend Update co-anchor Colin Jost is (surprisingly), the voice to call out the elephant in the room: “Politics right now is probably the closest we've come to a full-blown national phenomenon as anything in a long time, and anytime people are paying more attention to politics, it's good for our show. But you almost feel like a war profiteer at times because we've benefited from a situation that's so tough.”
NBC wasted no time in capitalizing on the moment. In March, the show switched to a schedule of broadcasting live in all US time zones, rather than just the East Coast. NBC’s Robert Greenblatt cited SNL’s renewed relevance, explaining the change as something of a public service: “We thought it would be a great idea to broadcast to the West and Mountain time zones live at the same time it’s being seen in the East and Central time zones. That way, everyone is in on the joke at the same time.”
From then on, Saturday Night Live would be primetime television for anyone who lives on the West Coast, a tacit declaration of cultural centrality that NBC has never dared make before in the show’s 42-year history. Not long after that, SNL was commissioned to write its first advertisements, for Verizon and Apple, which would run during its broadcast.
Being good at the business end of success isn’t the same as stepping up to the plate creatively, and Saturday Night Live has seemed continually and newly daunted by the task at hand.
In some ways, you can’t blame them — the Trump administration has plunged the country into a deep lagoon of unprecedented situations, unfathomable characters, and inescapable dread. Why should they know what to do with it? Does anyone? In February, just as it was becoming clear that Trump could very well launch SNL into the ratings stratosphere for good, The Outline’s Leah Finnegan wrote, “Comedy doesn’t matter under fascism; the best spoof of the Trump Administration is the Trump Administration itself. You know who would really be a hilarious choice to play Sean Spicer? Sean Spicer.”
Her argument calls to mind the last time that SNL was asked to reckon with a surreally ridiculous person making their way towards the White House — Sarah Palin, in 2008, who Seth Meyers (then head writer) and Tina Fey lampooned partially by reciting her own words.
It worked pretty well in 2008, and SNL made use of it a few times with Trump too, but it’s not going to work every week for four years. Saturday Night Live had to make some quick decisions about its responsibilities, if it had any, and it seems what they decided was to have their cake and eat it too: eagerly accept the country’s attention and then service it with some incredibly lazy attempts to make it laugh.
The season is best summarized by viral sketches that, boiled down, were just the easiest, most Facebook-shareable joke to make about the most ridiculous thing that happened in the preceding week: If Russia’s influence on the election or the administration was in the news, Putin would pop up shirtless in the White House and kiss up to a witless Trump. If Kellyanne Conway was putting on a song and dance in the media they’d… have her put on a song and dance. They used the already exhausted framework of “Trump sees the world as a reality TV show” to explain what was going on with Steve Bannon and Jared Kushner, setting up a faux-Apprentice showdown between the two in the Oval Office. The sketch never arrived at a joke, but begged you to agree that the comparison was apt.
These sketches read as though they were written by aliens, aware of a handful of pop culture phenomenon and basic storytelling structures — eager to cleave the drama at hand to them, whether or not they fit, and regardless of whether the end result makes any sense.
SNL’s triumphant 42nd season is also pockmarked by bizarre, inconsistent takes on the women closest to the president: Melania Trump, Ivanka Trump, and especially, Kellyanne Conway. Saturday Night Live had no idea what to do with them. Scarlett Johansson’s viral turn as Ivanka in a parody ad for a fragrance called “Complicit” is solid, but it also underlines the fact that SNL doesn’t take the First Daughter’s power too seriously — else they would have made it a priority to assign someone to play her permanently. The year-old Beyoncé divorce-pump-fake in Lemonade was its best shot at getting into Melania’s head. Conway was slotted randomly and repeatedly into classics of the “crazy blonde lady” film genre.
In general, the show’s writers don’t seem to know how women play into any of this, and so they spun Elizabeth Warren as a shrill, overwhelmed try-hard, Ruth Bader Ginsburg as the spunky old lady gearing up to do battle with Trump (based on... what real world event, exactly?), and Omarosa, who by all available evidence seems to be nothing more interesting than wildly dumb and grossly opportunistic, as Trump’s reluctant, conflicted and disappointed “black friend.”
By turns giving these women too much credit and too little, SNL never developed a cogent, funny piece of satire about any of them.
Oddly, the whole season contained less than 15 cumulative minutes on Mike Pence. If I were to hazard a guess as to why it’d be that Beck Bennett’s impression of him is bad and his shirtless Putin is a reliable viral video. It’s fitting, I suppose, that the reason Bennett has no time to satirize the super-powerful man eager to roll back gay rights in the United States is because he has to continue hitting the one-note “Trump has a crush on Putin” joke week after week.
To be fair, one of Saturday Night Live’s biggest problems is not their fault. An impossibly, constantly escalating news cycle is rendering a show written during the week, about the whole week’s events, a nearly impossible task. Familiar narrative structures don’t hold any water in that environment, and too often the joke is already and irreversibly on all of us. Perhaps that why more insightful, frank, and enjoyable comedy about the Trump administration happens on the internet every day — where jokes made by individuals, in contrast to those made by TV shows, succeed more often in underlining how specific and personal many of the horrors of the last six months have been.
In that vein, the best thing Saturday Night Live made all season is still the December digital short, “Jingle Barack.” The rap bit celebrated one final Christmas without the various, specific worst-case scenarios faced by each marginalized demographic in the United States (the loss of Obamacare, threats to gay marriage, doors closed to immigrants), making it a tender, considered musical tribute to the type of gallows humor that brings people closer together. Chance the Rapper grins, chin up, on the words “it’s the last Christmas before Trump next year” and, seconds later, mutters “there’ll probably never be another Christmas Eve.” It’s goofy and charming, without being toothless, and it’s timely without dragging out a famous person who’s dedicating at least 20 percent of their brainpower to sartorial ideas for their Variety cover.
Those same factors make Aziz Ansari’s post-Women’s March opening monologue one for the history books and a recent Handmaid’s Tale sketch the rare pop culture spin-off that finds a sharp, smart joke in something painful.
These moments are so good they set the rest of the season in harsh contrast, making it plain that failures of empathy and imagination are what’s holding the show back. (The fact that the writers room is heavily white and male has rarely been more pertinent than it is now.)
Take Alec Baldwin’s constantly-in-the-news Trump impression, for example, which shows Donald pouting and preening, but always stationary, always harmless. Another stand-out in the THR roundtable is writer Kent Sublette quoting Lorne Michaels: "Half the country voted for Trump, and our show's for those people as well.” Sure, but shouldn’t a show founded 42 years ago as a counterweight for primetime TV’s saccharine vagueries be about what’s funny and what’s true, regardless of who it might put off?
Alec Baldwin is obviously not the first to turn a weak presidential impression into a personal boost. Will Ferrell’s, loose, hammy George W. Bush helped make him a star, and the style of it defined his early career. But it feels different now. Ironically, Baldwin’s contributions to the THR piece read like Trump-style boasts: “I'm not going to name names, but a cabinet member walked up to me at a restaurant in Manhattan — Manhattan, that's a hint — and he goes, 'I gotta tell you something. This thing you're doing is good, it's really good.’”
Delighting in his own personal renaissance, Baldwin even recalls asking if NBC would reach out to President Trump to guest star in the episode that he hosted. He was, it turns out, a fitting choice as the poster boy for the season.
At the end of its 42nd year, Saturday Night Live is a little too interested in enjoying its unexpected comeback, and a little too eager to brush off responsibility as “just a TV show” even as it wants recognition as the country’s biggest and most important TV show. It can still be good for something, but only if it looks a little deeper.











Alien: Covenant is now in theaters, and it helps steer the franchise right back into the space-horror territory that captivated audiences when the first Alien film hit back in 1979. While 2001: A Space Odyssey and Star Wars showed filmgoers that science fiction could go beyond cheap B-movies, Ridley Scott’s film was a separate revelation, proof that screen science fiction could also produce quality horror-dramas. His creepy, Freudian Alien captivated audiences, and became an instant horror classic.
But Alien didn’t come out of nowhere. Its filmmaking team was inspired by a whole range of works, both intentionally and otherwise, in constructing its fantastic world and horrifying creatures. Alien also broadly inspired a number of other works after it hit theaters. Here are eight stories you should pick up after blowing through the Alien films one more time.
A number of films helped inspire Alien, including Dark Star, Forbidden Planet, Planet of the Vampires, and more. But one that stands out is It! The Terror From Beyond Space, a 1958 B-movie that follows the lone survivor of a Mars mission. He’s thought to have killed his crewmates, but in reality, a Martian found its way onboard and killed all but one.  The premise is very similar to Alien’s, and reportedly, Alien screenwriter Dan O’Bannon was a fan.
A great video popped up last November that looked into why we don’t see many mainstream films adapted from Lovecraft’s works. It points to Alien as one example of an instance of where Lovecraft’s vision has been realized. Lovecraft’s stories deal with a particular brand of cosmic nihilism, complete with unimaginable, horrifying monsters that are beyond comprehension. One of the author’s best known works is At the Mountains of Madness, which deals with an expedition to Antarctica, which comes across some long-lost alien creatures. Alien might not draw directly from that story, but it certainly has its roots there.
A.E. van Vogt’s novel is collected from a series of short stories, and has long been thought of as a direct inspiration for Alien. The novel’s first story is 1939’s Black Destroyer, which introduces a creature known as a Coeuri, found on a distant planet. It’s hunted its prey to extinction, and happens upon a scientific expedition that’s landed on its home planet. The creature boards the ship and kills several crew members before it’s tricked into a life pod and jettisoned. Van Vogt reportedly sued 20th Century Fox for plagiarism, and eventually settled out of court.
The Alien franchise probably would have never come about if Alejandro Jodorowsky had been able to complete his adaptation of Frank Herbert’s Dune. The ambitious project pulled together an impressive production team, including H.R. Giger, Dan O’Bannon, and Jean Giraud (known as Mœbius). Jodorowsky's Dune chronicles the rise and fall of that project, and how these individuals influenced the look and feel of Ridley Scott’s production when Dune failed to come together.
Bungie’s Halo franchise emerged from a whole range of science-fiction stories, from Starship Troopers to Larry Niven’s Ringworld. Another huge influence comes from James Cameron’s Aliens. It’s easy to see just where the film pops up in the series when the space marines crash-land on the Halo ring. (Sergeant Major Johnson is a pretty direct copy of Aliens’ Gunnery Sergeant Apone.) The game also features the Flood, a familiar-sounding alien parasite that takes over human hosts and uses their biomass to spread.
On paper, this 2000 Vin Diesel thriller looks very much like Alien or Aliens: a spacecraft crash-lands on a remote planet, and when nightfall comes, the crew comes under attack by the planet’s native creatures. The film is an effective entry in the space-horror canon because it pits its characters not only against the creatures, but against one of the passengers, a monster in his own right. The series steered away from its horror roots in the sequel The Chronicles of Riddick, but later went right back to them with a second sequel, Riddick.
If you talk to the two authors who write the Expanse series under the pseudonym James S.A. Corey, and ask how the books came about, the conversation will inevitably turn to Alien, but not in the way you might think. While the books do touch on some horrifying aliens, the authors were influenced more by Ridley Scott’s blue-collar, truckers-in-space approach to the crew. They translated that into their novels, and that influence has made its way into the Syfy TV adaptation of their books. The last couple of episodes in the show’s second season also included a pretty cool homage to Scott’s film.
One of the latest films to fall under the “inspired by Alien” umbrella is Life, which came out in March. Before the film was even released, it was clear that the people behind the film watched Alien more than once, retelling the story of a terrifying alien aboard a spacecraft. We even noted in our review that Life blatantly borrows from its more famous predecessor, but doesn’t live up to its legacy.
In a report published by The New York Times today, Twitter co-founder Ev Williams says that “the internet is broken,” and that if Twitter is responsible for President Trump’s election in November, he’s “sorry.”
The report takes a look at Ev’s career, his current work with Medium, and his efforts to fix what he sees as an internet that is going off the rails. He notes he had initially believed that developing platforms such as Blogger and Twitter would improve the world by giving people a voice, but now thinks otherwise: “I was wrong about that.”
In particular, Williams expressed regret for the role that Twitter might have played in bringing Donald Trump to the White House. The president said in March that he believed that the service allowed him to deliver his message straight to his followers, and that he “wouldn’t be [president] if it wasn’t for Twitter.” Presented with that, Williams said that “It’s a very bad thing, Twitter’s role in that,” and that “if it’s true that he wouldn’t be president if it weren’t for Twitter, then yeah, I’m sorry.”
Williams observed that the internet as a platform rewards such extreme behavior, and likened it to a road where everyone slows down to watch car crashes. Twitter has become a road with plenty of those car crashes, and has struggled to balance what it sees as a neutral platform for speech, and providing a welcoming place for users. This spring, it began focusing on beefing up and introduced features designed to limit spam and harassment. With Medium, Williams wants to try and find a path that avoids those car crashes, although it remains to be seen how or if that’ll happen.
Since November, Twitter in particular has grappled with its role in the election, particularly in how Trump used the site, while abuse intensified throughout the 2016 campaign. Williams’ comments are unequivocal on the matter, a departure from Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey’s “complicated” feelings on the issue, who feels that the site helps keep Trump accountable.

When Bungie revealed the first gameplay trailer for Destiny 2 on Thursday, fans made a lot of noise about the new superpowers available and the CGI trailers setting up the new “Red War Campaign” story mode. There was even a comically loud cheering section when Bungie execs announced that, at long last, players wouldn’t be kicked to the game’s waiting zone every time they wanted to do a new activity. But a lot of the nuts-and-bolts changes to Destiny 2 went unmentioned onstage.
Luckily, I spent time on Thursday playing a healthy amount of the new Crucible multiplayer, a full-fledged three-person strike, and the introductory story mission. It’s safe to say that Destiny 2 feels and looks a lot like its predecessor — the changes here are going to be subtle ones. But they are important tweaks that will have some drastic effects on how you play both cooperatively against the AI and against other human opponents in competitive games.
Naturally, Bungie made a big deal out of its three new subclasses, including a fan-pleasing reveal of the Solar Warlock class, Dawnblade, during the first gameplay trailer. There’s also going to be a new Void Titan class, Sentinel, that is a straight up Destiny version of Captain America, shield and all. As for the Hunter, there’s a new Arc subclass called Arcstrider similar to the original game’s Bladedancer that replaces daggers with a lightning-imbued staff.
This was all pretty much known after Bungie’s presentation. What the developer didn’t tell you, however, is that even the old subclasses are getting revamped. I only had a chance to spend time with the Titan’s traditional Striker class from the first Destiny, but it was noticeably different.
For one, after using its signature Fist of Havoc skill, my super stayed active. I was able to run around the map while charged up with lightning and burst into my enemies at high speeds. It made the super skill less of a one-off shot in the dark and more of an ongoing strategic threat. Bungie has confirmed that there will be significant changes to the other existing subclasses to keep them feeling fresh.
I did however ask about whether the newly announced subclasses would mean the end of Sunsingers, Defenders, and Bladedancers, and Bungie designer and social lead M.E. Chung wouldn’t say in my interview with her. So for those who are desperately hoping the self-resurrection and bubble skills are still in the game, there is still a faint glimmer of hope.
A brand new addition to Destiny 2 is latent subclass abilities. In the first game, the only things that differentiated one subclass from another were jump styles, grenade and melee types, and super abilities. There was of course the unevenly distributed subclass skill, like Shadestep and Shoulder Charge, but those always felt like fun tricks rather than strategic tools.
Now, each subclass has a series of latent abilities that can be used on recharge. For instance, the new Dawnblade class for Warlocks allows players to create a temporary pool of light that either heals surrounding teammates or gives them a damage boost. This is also coming to older subclasses. The Titan’s Striker class can now create artificial walls to use as cover, while the Hunter’s Gunslinger can use quick dodges that simultaneously reload weapons.
During my time playing the strike as a Dawnblade, the pools of damage-boosting/healing light were critical in taking down higher-level enemies and staying alive during particularly grueling parts of the three-stage boss fight. We can expect every subclass to have some pretty unique abilities not dependent on a super charge, as Bungie seems intent on making the divisions between classes more pronounced.
Perhaps the most noticeable change to how Destiny 2 looks and feels is in the weapons system. The original game had three weapon slots: primary, secondary, and heavy. Primary weapons were guns like automatic rifles, revolvers, and burst firing guns. Secondary weapons were sniper rifles and shotguns (as well as fusion rifles and sidearms), while heavy weapons were exclusively large machine guns, rocket launchers, and, later on, swords.
Now, in Destiny 2, weapon slots are divided between kinetic, energy, and power weapons. Kinetic weapons still feel like standard primary ones: you have your hand cannons, auto rifles, pulse rifles, and so on. Yet energy weapons are now a kind of hybrid class that consists of any non-power weapon with an elemental charge. That means sidearms, but also any hand cannon or auto rifle with a solar, void, or arc flavor to it. In other words, your loadout can consist of a hand cannon in one slot and an elemental auto rifle in the next. This brings up a lot of interesting new combinations — imagining taking down an enemy's solar shield with your auto rifle and then swapping quickly to a hand cannon to land some head shots when his defenses have evaporated.
The power weapons are now where every one-hit-kill weapon has been grouped together. That means shotguns, fusion rifles, sniper rifles, rocket launchers, and all-new grenade launchers are all in one category. You can only have one equipped at any given time. In my time playing the new attack/defense game mode, Countdown, this created an interesting dynamic. Firefights remained long-range at first, as every player used the new submachine class or relied on a hand cannon or auto rifle. But as the power weapon counter went down, players began stocking up on shotgun, sniper, and rocket ammo and the fight took a radical shift toward more hectic, close-range and one-shot play.
Chung told me that this was designed to make Crucible more friendly and less about who could either close the distance faster and pull off that shotgun blast or camp and nail a sniper headshot. “Destiny 1 could have been better on the readability scale,” she said. “One-shot kills suck when they happen to you.” She added that Bungie wants Destiny 2’s multiplayer to be “learnable and watchable experience,” so that when you die you learn something new. This inevitably means less dependence on a “meta” weapon type and more strategic use of supers, latent abilities, and unique loadouts.
The new weapons system has had a noticeable effect on multiplayer combat. During my time playing Countdown, it was clear that Destiny 2 has borrowed more from the arena shooter realm dominated by Halo and thrown in some of the strategic teamwork of Counter-Strike and Call of Duty. In doing so, the game is leaving behind the more of the free-for-all slugfest aspects of the original Destiny that had everyone shotgunning each other — until someone wiped an entire squad with a super.
This means it’s quite a lot harder to take an enemy down, and it’s far easier on the opposing end to recover from a surprise attack and retaliate adequately. Enemies feel like they have more health and move quicker in relation to your ability to track them with your weapons, which has the effect of slowing down the combat from engagement to the time someone notches a kill. This resulted in some intense bouts that felt more like an exercise in environment control and critical thinking and less about instincts, timing, accuracy and other traditional shooter metrics.
It was a refreshing change, especially given how the original Crucible devolved into an ever-constant game of tag to see who could keep up with Bungie’s balancing system the best. Now, at least for the launch, players can look forward to combat that is fresh and, in my experience, fun to learn.

It was early Thursday morning when astronomer Matt Muterspaugh noticed something strange with the star he had been observing for the last year and a half. Telescope data  taken from the night before showed that the brightness of the star had dipped significantly. He contacted other astronomers who had also been observing the same star, to let them know what he had seen and to keep an eye on it for any more changes. Then by the following morning, the star had dimmed even more.
That’s when he and the others knew it was time to signal the alarm: the weirdest star in our galaxy was acting weird again. And it was time for everyone to look at this distant celestial body — to figure out what the hell is going on. “As far as I can tell, every telescope that can look at it right now is looking at it right now,” Muterspaugh, a professor at Tennessee State University, tells The Verge.
The star Muterspaugh has been looking at is KIC 8462852, though it’s also known as Tabby’s Star. That’s because Tabetha Boyajian, an astronomer at Louisiana State University, first noticed this strange star a couple years ago after looking through archive data from Kepler — a NASA spacecraft that’s been hunting for planets that exist outside of our Solar System. Boyajian was part of a citizen science project called Planet Hunters, where volunteers can analyze Kepler data to look for planets, and they alerted her to the wonky star. “Our users flagged it to be something really interesting,” Boyajian tells The Verge. “They came to the science team and asked, ‘What is this? That’s not a planet clearly.’”
The data showed that KIC 8462852 experienced some extreme fluctuations in brightness, way more than what a passing planet would cause. At one point, the star’s light dimmed by up to 20 percent. It was a huge dip, like nothing that had ever been seen before, indicating something big and irregular may be orbiting around the star.
@ajebson @NASAKepler @LCO_Global @keckobservatory @AAVSO @nexssinfo @NASA @NASAHubble @Astro_Wright @BerkeleySETI @ESO its 2% in r' band and looks like its the start pic.twitter.com/TjJdSY2ar9
Then in late 2015, astronomer Jason Wright from Penn State suggested a tantalizing scenario for the dips. Perhaps large megastructures created by an alien civilization were orbiting around the star, explaining the weird changes. “Aliens should always be the very last hypothesis you consider,” Wright told The Atlantic at the time, “but this looked like something you would expect an alien civilization to build.” That’s when Tabby’s Star became popularly known as the “alien megastructure” star.
Of course, astronomers are more focused on a natural explanation: perhaps a huge swarm of giant comets periodically orbits the star. The only way to narrow down the possibilities is to observe the star in real time as the dimming is happening. And all we had were past observations of the fluctuations caught by Kepler. “We were kind of stuck in a spot where we couldn’t do anything,” says Boyajian. “We had all the data we could and to learn anything more we needed to catch it in action again.” The problem, though, is that Tabby’s star is unpredictable. The fluctuations aren’t exactly repetitive and don’t seem to follow any known pattern — making it hard to know when the strange star will be strange again. “Things that change the brightness of a star happen in a very regular pattern,” says Muterspaugh. “And from what we can tell so far, [this star] is not periodic. We cannot predict when it happens, and that makes it very weird.”
That’s why astronomers have been observing the star basically around the clock since they first learned of its dimming behavior. To do this, Boyajian started a Kickstarter campaign called “Where’s the Flux?” to secure funding for enough telescope time to continuously monitor the star. The campaign successfully raised more than $100,000, which helped Boyajian and others set up a year-long observation program through the Las Cumbres Observatory, which has telescopes stationed throughout the world. At the same time, Muterspaugh independently set up an observation campaign with the robotic telescopes at the Fairborn Observatory in Arizona. These telescopes are essentially automatic, observing certain targets in the sky on their own when the rest of us are sleeping. Muterspaugh had programmed one of these telescopes to constantly keep an eye on Tabby’s Star. And for the most part, the star has been quiet, behaving more or less like normal.
Then on April 24th, data from Fairborn indicated that the star had dimmed ever so slightly. It wasn’t enough of a change for astronomers to think the star was acting up again, but everyone was still on their guard. There was an idea that this small dip could be a preliminary event before the real thing. And sure enough, nearly a month later, the huge dimming that Kepler saw seems to be happening again.
ALERT:@tsboyajian's star is dippingThis is not a drill.Astro tweeps on telescopes in the next 48 hours: spectra please!
And it’s really the moment that everyone has been waiting for with Tabby’s Star. It gives astronomers the opportunity to use their entire arsenal of telescopes to observe these fluctuations as they occur. Kepler only observed the light fluctuations in just one broad range of light colors. Now, we can use telescopes to observe the star’s light in numerous colors and light spectrums, and that can give us a better idea of the types of chemicals that are present when these changes occur or the properties of the objects that are blocking the light. For instance, if it is just a bunch of comets, then they’re going to be very close to the star and super hot, according to Jason Wright, and that’s something we can pick up by observing in the infrared spectrum.
If it’s the other theory — the alien one — then it’s unclear what we’ll see. Maybe we’ll see some kind of artificial element associated with the blockage. No one is making any definitive statements just yet, since now is the time to simply observe, and it’s going to be a while before astronomers decode what they see this weekend. So all the theories are still on the table — including the alien megastructures. “That theory is still a valid one,” says Muterspaugh. “We would really hate to go to that, because that’s a pretty major thing. It’d be awesome of course, but as scientists we’re hoping there’s a natural explanation.”
But the good news is we’re going to get a lot of data. Boyajian says the response from the science community has been overwhelming, and everyone who can help right now is doing their best to watch and document changes. “It’s neat to see it turn full circle from citizen scientists who discovered the star and then an opportunity for folks interested in science to follow up and learn more about what this star is,” Boyajian says. “It’s really humbling to work with all these science enthusiasts and have this support for this really interesting star.”
Update May 20th, 11:30AM ET: This post was updated to include quotes and information from Tabetha Boyajian.


Chinese app makers are reportedly upset with Apple after it issued a new policy that recognizes tips as in-app purchases, according to The Wall Street Journal. This means small donations made from inside popular social networks in China will soon be made eligible for Apple’s 30 percent revenue cut.
Unlike in the US and other Western markets, in-app tipping is a more common display of gratitude in China toward writers, developers, and other content creators who give out stuff for free. However, Apple last month demanded app makers disable the tipping function per the new App Store rules, which will now recognize any donation as an official in-app purchase. Those who don’t comply risk being kicked out of the App Store, the WSJ reports.
Tipping is typically done through apps like the massively popular WeChat, which acts much like a mobile operating system with other services bundled inside of it. This results in Chinese consumers making use of services like food delivery and reading the news all from within WeChat’s ecosystem, which encourages users to tip. Apple, until now, hasn’t seen any of that revenue in the same way it does with app downloads and other more traditional in-app purchases.
This debate over tipping is yet another sign that Apple’s relationship with China has become increasingly more fragile. The contention is now a source of concern for the iPhone maker, which has seen the country’s fast-growing population become its largest global software market, with in-app revenues of more than $2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2016 alone, according to the WSJ. And yet Apple’s revenues are falling in China and its market share has fallen behind by local Chinese brands, putting the company on the defensive in what is effectively the most important and lucrative market on the planet.

French retailer Carrefour has teamed up with Bookeen, an e-reader company, to release and develop a new e-reader. Surprise. The two companies put out their first Nolim e-reader in 2013 and are now refreshing it. The revamped version features a 6-inch E Ink touchscreen display (1024 x 758 resoultion), 8GB of storage, and Wi-Fi connectivity. It’ll cost €129. Given that Amazon put out its square-shaped Paperwhite last year, Carrefour and Bookeen had to find a way to make theirs sound more interesting. Their answer? A smart case that turns the device on and off when it’s opened and closed. Yup. These are available in five different colors: green, burgundy, orange, dark grey, and light grey. I appreciate the choices, although I’m pretty sure the Nolim is only available in France, so even if you were tempted by these smart cases, you’d have to head to Europe to get them.
Netflix’s original series Orange is the New Black returns June 9th, and the company’s latest teaser is banking on viewers being diehard fans of its other shows. Of course, that can backfire — if you’ve never seen Black Mirror’s “San Junipero” episode, this touching moment between Taystee (Danielle Brooks) and Poussey (Samira Wiley) is likely to cruise right over your head.
The “Orange is the New Black Mirror” gag riffs on an oddly bright episode in an otherwise heavy run of Black Mirror’s third season. For one brief and shining hour, the show trades in its satire and cynicism for a hopeful, uplifting story about two women who fall in love in a digital world. In addition to being the only time I’ve ever described Black Mirror as “hopeful” and “uplifting,” “San Junipero” is also unapologetically soaked in neon and 1980s musical hits.
The teaser doesn’t have much to say about Orange is the New Black’s latest season. Neither do I, aside from some relatable feelings about missing Poussey. It’s doubtful this scene will even appear in the show. (Though it’s openly a fantasy sequence, so it could!) It seems more like a one-off on Netflix’s part. Like the Mystery Science Theater 3000 trailer that featured the first few minutes of Stranger Things, this teaser is smart cross-promotional branding that uses an already-popular property to boost a new release. And it has the insular value of an in-joke. When you have two popular shows at your fingertips, why not smash them together in a goof only your real fans will get? Personally, I think “Unbreakable House of Cards” has a nice ring to it.
The current generation of VR is great, but it's far from perfect. One way VR falls short of the real world is the fixed focus distance. Despite the illusion of depth from the stereo images you're looking at, each image is essentially flat, at a fixed perceived distance from your face, and with a focus selected by the game engine instead of your eyeballs. This can lead to fatigue or worse kinds of discomfort, and also puts limits on developers who need to strive to keep content in a visual sweet spot and a constant focus distance or risk discomfort for their users.
Oculus Research is showing off a solution to this problem at SIGGRAPH this year. They call it a "focal surface display," and have already built a working prototype. The technology puts something called a spatial light modulator (SLM) in between the screen and the headset's eyepiece lenses, and the SLM actively bends light to give a scene a 3D contour. The edges of this "focal surface" aren't very sharp, so they also do some color tricks to correct for the distortion. (If this sounds at all confusing, just check out the video above, it does a great job of explaining what’s going on).
This technique, combined with eye tracking, allows you to look around a scene in VR and focus naturally on different areas at different perceived distances. Oculus Research says it's "a long way out" from a consumer version of this technology, but it's exciting to see how far along they already are in solving this problem. Also, I’m very excited to learn that there’s such a thing as a “spatial light modulator” and I have so many questions.
I went to college at a strange time for the music industry. Napster had already come and gone, digital music stores like iTunes and Amazon Music were growing quickly, and the big streaming sites were just getting popular. While there were file sharing options out there for acquiring new music, there was one site that I turned to anytime I was looking for something new and interesting: Hype Machine. Unfortunately, the site recently announced that it’s turning to crowdfunding to survive, and is hoping that its users will chip in to keep the site running.
The late 2000s marked a time of trial and error for musicians trying to figure out how to market themselves in the digital age, and Hype Machine distinguished itself as a place to discover new music. Anthony Volodkin founded the site in 2005 after realizing that there was a space on the web to link the musical blogosphere together, becoming an early streaming service in its own right. Visitors could search for specific artists or tracks, or simply push play on the site’s music player and listen to the wide range of songs writers were excited about. While sites like Pandora and Spotify later capitalized on streaming music, Hype Machine was a bit more scattershot: it didn’t provide the songs, but instead linked out to sites that were posting MP3s, making the site a great place to discover artists who were on the verge of breaking out.
While Hype Machine is still around, it’s been left behind by the streaming age. In recent weeks, the team posted a plea to the site: their advertising revenue has dried up, and because it’s an independent company without outside investors, it won’t be able to operate. They explained that they’re looking for donations to keep the lights on, hoping that a crowdfunding model will help sustain the site. Their first goal is to get a thousand supporters on the books.
I hope that it works. I visit the site every now and again, usually while I’m in a musical rut, and almost always end up discovering some new artists to throw into my music library. What I’ve always appreciated about the site is that it doesn’t conform to my music tastes. It helps expand them by introducing me to new and exciting bands that I otherwise would have never come across. If Hype Machine shuts down, it’ll be a bit like a local indie record store going out of business: it leaves a hole in a larger community of music lovers, who’ll reluctantly go elsewhere to discover their next favorite band.
Scientists on Twitter are introducing themselves to the famous TV host Bill Nye (of Bill Nye the Science Guy fame), using the hashtag #BillMeetScienceTwitter. Their aim is to spark more collaboration between science celebrities with massive Twitter followings, like Nye or Neil deGrasse Tyson, and the scientists doing their best to communicate their research to the public. And the effort may have worked: on Friday evening, Bill Nye said “greetings” right back.
The Twitter campaign was born out of frustration. It started when Melissa Marquez, a marine biologist, tweeted from a collective Twitter account hosted by a new scientist every week, called @biotweeps.
Bill Nye + Neil deGrasse Tyson = scientists w BIG following… but do they really engage with public or do they just preach?
The question kicked off a conversation about whether these science celebrities could do more to acknowledge the limits of their expertise, or use their enviable platforms to incorporate the diverse voices of experts in the field. The gripe started a similar Twitter campaign back in February. That hashtag, #actuallivingscientist, was inspired by a survey that revealed most respondents couldn’t name an actual living scientist. Those who could, overwhelmingly named men — NDT and Nye among them. (NDT has a PhD in astrophysics, Nye has an undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering.)
“Just because you're a scientist doesn't make you an expert in all of science,” Dani Rabaiotti, a graduate student studying African wild dogs, told The Verge in a direct message on Twitter. In an email to The Verge, Dalton Ludwick, the entomology PhD student who coined the #BillMeetScienceTwitter hashtag, pointed out that considering “scientist” a general broad-scale title can cause problems when an astrophysicist, for example, opines on biology.
If there were ever a species for whom sex hurt, it surely went extinct long ago.
As Rachel Feltman wrote for the Washington Post, this painful-sex tweet NDT sent out last year ignores the vast world of creatures that copulate in ways that cannot feel good — at least, as we humans understand the word. Ducks have terrifying nine-inch corkscrew penises. Male giant squids actually stab their partners when they mate. “If he had consulted a fellow scientist on Twitter, then he may have avoided such a blunder,” Ludwick says of the tweet. (Ludwick says he didn’t have a good reason for directing the hashtag at Nye, rather than deGrasse Tyson.)
But, maybe the problem was that these famous faces of science just didn’t know about  the active science Twitter community. That’s why science Twitter felt it was time to introduce itself, and its very specific areas of expertise.
Hi, @BillNye ! I'm a PhD student working with singing mice, trying to understand how & why they decide when to sing. #BillMeetScienceTwitter pic.twitter.com/p8hIClvK9w
“This is a kind of ‘Hey, we are here, we are all different genders and races, and do all different kinds of science,’” Rabaiotti says. “[If] you need our expertise, just ask.”
Herpetologist David Steen agrees. “They kind of create this idea that it’s just them,” he says. If they were to amplify the voices and Twitter accounts of scientists to their millions of followers, “it’d completely change the science communication landscape,” Steen says. “Many of the scientists on Twitter are there to do science communication, and you can be the best science communicator in the world, [but] it won’t matter if nobody listens.”
Nye appears to have been listening. On Friday evening, less than 24 hours after the campaign started, he gave a nod to the hashtag. And then he began retweeting the scientists who had said hello.
I see you, Science Twitter.  You are the aerodynamic laminar flow beneath my wings.  #BIllMeetScienceTwitter
Greetings Dr. David, You & I and those fishes have a common ancestor — how cool is that? Keep up the good work. https://t.co/16AzrEn4Fy
Hormones passing non genetic traits? You my friend, may change the world. Thank you, thank you! https://t.co/CpCIOd7h0t
Steen says that NDT and Nye do a great job, and he doesn’t begrudge them their success. “I admit that I would love to have that kind of platform,” Steen says. “I don’t necessarily think I’m jealous, but I definitely appreciate what they’ve been able to do.”
Ludwick acknowledges that having so many followers comes with its own stress. “Personally, I do not envy the large platform that Bill and Neil have,” he says. “With so many eyes on you at all times, any mistake is amplified.”
He adds that the hashtag isn’t intended as an attack on Nye or NDT. Instead, the point is to let them know that fellow scientists exist, they have a lot to say, and they’re a great source for accurate scientific information. Nye seems to have heard. So even if your name isn’t Bill or Neil, meet some Twitter scientists:
Hi @BillNye. I got my PhD in molecular biology & write about science x policy x representation. I also like onesies #BillMeetScienceTwitter pic.twitter.com/UMcPN4vguz
Hi @BillNye,I'm Clark. And I use multimedia and environ education to help spread #scicomm about conservation. #BillMeetScienceTwitter pic.twitter.com/Pm8I98Skfh
Hi @BillNye I'm Jen & I study how ppl use their #TEK 2 adapt & respond 2 #climatechange in southern #Africa #BillMeetScienceTwitter pic.twitter.com/fpTUOJYHCv
Hi @BillNye! This is me. #BillMeetScienceTwitter https://t.co/xYmlrMDxOo
@EntoLudwick @drmikeographer @biotweeps Hi @BillNye I'm Dani and I study the effect of climate change on African wild dogs, and wrote a book on animal farts #BillMeetScienceTwitter pic.twitter.com/X3CMB60b3f
Hi @BillNye, I'm Solomon and I study what ancient fishes can tell us about biodiversity, environment, and our genes! #BillMeetScienceTwitter pic.twitter.com/0umgiK7VkX
Hi @BillNye I'm Katherine, I study how hormones are used to pass nongenetic traits to multiple offspring generations #BillMeetScienceTwitter pic.twitter.com/Kr63sj9Cso
Update May 19th, 9:15PM ET: This story has been updated to include Bill Nye’s response to the #BillMeetScienceTwitter campaign.
Update May 22nd, 9:35AM ET: On May 21st, Neil deGrasse Tyson added this comment to our story:
If it matters to anyone, approximately half of the media requests I receive are to comment on science news that falls outside of my professional expertise — and I decline 100% of them. Most recently with CBS News about emergent gene editing CRISPR tools.
And even when the request falls within my expertise, I require network news (and other outlets with resources) to find the people whose research they are reporting on, and then, if still interested, return to me, where I am happy to tie a bow on the significance of the research to us all.
What happens occasionally is, after the interview covers the intended subject, I get asked about other subjects, where I am happy to comment to the extent of my knowledge. I have a stable of scientists who feed me some of the latest developments in their fields, knowing that I will occasionally find myself in situations where I’ll be asked to comment.
Further, my StarTalk Radio Show just spun off a branch of itself called StarTalk Allstars, which showcases science as brought to you by scientists who have boundless enthusiasm for bringing their field to the public, but most of whom did not have a platform to do so. Now in its second season, we are enthusiastic about this.
Additionally, I did not participate in the Science March because it was a ready-made platform for people you may not have heard of yet who have deeply important messages to convey. I will also be unfindable by the press during the Great American Solar Eclipse of August 21, 2017 because, once again, it’s a ready made platform for others to shine — forcing the media to find the thousands of people they might not otherwise reach for, but who have the needed expertise to comment on the event. This includes amateur astronomy groups, local planetarium directors, community college science professors, etc.
Lastly, however delusional this may be to me, or may sound to you, I actually look forward to the day when there are so many science popularizers out there that I can just back away unnoticed, permanently leaving this space that I occupy.
I am, and have always been, a servant of the public’s interest in science.
Respectfully submitted,
Neil deGrasse Tyson, New York City
p.s. As for the sex tweet, it should have said, "where both partners are in pain at the same time while having sex". That was my intended meaning. But the urge to criticize the post was so strong that this intent was never considered. Meanwhile, I have yet to learn of an example in the sexually reproducing world of animals for which this is true. I didn’t purse this in social media. Instead I used the critical commentary as a lesson for myself that for many people the urge to declare something is false exceeds the urge to explore how something can be true. I now word my Tweets in ways that leave no room for more than one interpretation. FYI: Same thing happened with my Helicopter Tweet, in which I declared that a plane with failed engines is a glider, while a helicopter with failed engines is a brick. Helicopter people were quick to criticize that if you shut off your engines, and the propellers are free to spin, you can execute a controlled descent, with the spinning blades providing some needed buoyancy. None of the critics considered the intended case where the blades stopped rotating altogether. -NDT

In April, the Senate voted to roll back the FCC’s internet privacy rules, clearing the way for internet service providers to share browsing histories with third-party advertisers — and provoking a significant backlash along the way. Now, one of the leading forces for the April push has introduced a new bill that could restore some of those restrictions, while adding new ones for web services like Facebook and Google.
Titled the BROWSER Act (Balancing the Rights of Web Surfers Equally and Responsibly), the bill requires opt-in consent for the sharing of all sensitive user information, including web histories. But while the FCC rules only had jurisdiction over telecoms, the BROWSER Act’s rules would apply equally to telecoms and web companies, forcing companies like Comcast and Google to play by the same data-sharing rules or face penalty from the FTC.
The bill would also prevent lower levels of government from passing stricter privacy rules, a practice that’s already drawn support in some cities and states.
Notably, the bill was introduced by Martha Blackburn (R-TN), who also introduced the bill to repeal the FCC rules in April. Blackburn told Axios that her motivation was to bring web companies (also called edge providers) under the same rules as telecoms
"What we know is that when people talk about, 'I don't like pop ups that I get, and I don't like this and I don't like that,' that's activity that comes from the edge providers, not the ISPs," the Senator said.
The woman whose headphones caught fire during a February flight from Beijing, China to Melbourne, Australia was wearing a pair of AAA-powered Beats, according to the Australian Associated Press. What’s more, the report states that a representative for Apple, which bought Beats in 2014, told the woman’s lawyer that the company’s investigation into the incident blames the use of a “third-party battery" for the cause of the explosion, though it’s unclear what that means. Apple has not responded to a request for comment.
The woman, whose name has not been released, was asleep during the flight when “a loud explosion” was heard by other passengers, according to a March report from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau. “As I went to turn around I felt burning on my face,” she told the ATSB. She then threw the headphones on the floor, and flight attendants flushed them with water.
Apple doesn’t currently make headphones powered by AAA batteries, so if the headphones in question were indeed made by Beats, they were likely an older pair.
When Microsoft announced Windows 10 S, one of the main distinctions from vanilla Windows 10 was that only Windows Store applications would run on the education-focused OS. But it turns out when Microsoft said that “applications are delivered via the Windows Store,” it didn’t mean that all Windows Store applications would work on 10 S, as noted by Lilliputing.
In a blog post on MSDN today, Rich Turner, a Senior Product Manager at Microsoft, clarified that certain applications won’t be allowed to run on Windows 10 S, including “all command-line apps, shells and consoles.”
Regrettably, that means that Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, and Fedora — the Linux distros that are coming to the Windows Store — won’t be permitted to run on Windows 10 S. As Turner explains, the Linux distros, even though distributed through the store, have more access to the system than a standard Universal Windows Program on the store — essentially, they’re command-line tools that work outside the closed sandbox that Microsoft limits most Windows Store apps to.
According to Turner’s post, Windows 10 S is primarily aimed at “non-technical users” who don’t want or need that kind access, and specifically isn’t designed for app developers or IT administrators who need more advanced control over their machines. To be clear: there’s no technical reason that the Linux distros from the store can’t run on Windows 10 S, aside from the choice by Microsoft to limit that option, and anyone running a 10 S device that chooses to upgrade to a full version of Windows 10 will immediately be able to install the Windows Store-distributed versions.
Shooting professional quality video with a drone is not an easy task, and often requires multiple human operators. Researchers at MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) think they’ve found a way to take humans out of the operation part of the equation altogether. The team teased a system this week that they plan to unveil at a conference later this month in which filmmakers can set certain parameters and then let the drone do all the work.
The group calls the system “real-time motion planning for aerial videography,” and it lets a director define basic parameters of a shot, like how tight or how wide the frame should be, or the position of the subject within that frame. They can also change those settings on the fly and the drone will adjust how it’s filming accordingly. And, of course, the drone can dynamically avoid obstacles.
While a few consumer drones like the DJI Mavic Pro already have object recognition and tracking, MIT’s project sets itself apart by adding in more robust versions of those technologies and a vast amount of granular control. The system is constantly measuring and estimating the velocities of the objects moving around the drone, and it does this 50 times a second.
The researchers say that a director using their system would be able to weigh certain variables differently so the drone knows what to prioritize in a shot, too. From the MIT release:
Unless the actors are extremely well-choreographed, the distances between them, the orientations of their bodies, and their distance from obstacles will vary, making it impossible to meet all constraints simultaneously. But the user can specify how the different factors should be weighed against each other. Preserving the actors’ relative locations onscreen, for instance, might be more important than maintaining a precise distance, or vice versa. The user can also assign a weight to minimize occlusion, ensuring that one actor doesn’t end up blocking another from the camera.
It’s a cool idea that’s both reminiscent and seemingly a natural extension of the virtual camera work that directors like James Cameron helped pioneer and others (like Gareth Edwards and Lucasfilm) have been using ever since. It’s definitely not ready for that kind of work, judging from CSAIL’s video. But it’s another important wrinkle in the way new hardware and software is changing filmmaking, big or small.
Fresh out of my export folder is a brand new episode of The Vergecast. This week, because of the business that is Google I/O, we recorded our episode Friday morning. This resulted in Nilay’s attempt to bring a morning show vibe to episode 257, despite Dieter, Adi, Natt, and Paul’s (and my) disapproval of sound effects. There was a lot to discuss thanks to Google’s developer conference, so here it is! Enjoy!
06:43 - Google is finally replacing its bad emoji blobs in Android O
13:59 - Google Assistant is on the iPhone now
24:41 - Google wants the Assistant to be everywhere — but first it needs to conquer the iPhone
31:46 - Android O beta launches
37:40 - Google is adding Kotlin as an official programming language for Android development
45:37 - Google AR / VR
1:01:25 - Ford update brings Android Auto and Apple CarPlay to its 2016 fleet
1:06:50  - New Surface Pro leak confirms Microsoft's hatred for USB-C
1:07:28 - AMD is bringing its new Ryzen processors to laptops later this year
1:08:15 - FCC votes to begin overturning net neutrality
If you enjoyed this podcast, there’s more you can listen to! There’s Ctrl-Walt-Delete with Walt Mossberg and Nilay Patel, which dives deep into tech. We have Verge Extras, which experiments with audio and podcasting in new and interesting ways. You might also want to check out Recode Decode, hosted by Kara Swisher, and Too Embarrassed to Ask hosted by Lauren Goode! You can find them all in iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, and anywhere you get your podcasts nowadays.
In 1996, Battle.net — Blizzard’s online gaming service — launched alongside Diablo offering players the opportunity to socialize with their friends in-game. Now, after over 20 years, and over 20 games and expansions, Battle.net will be home to its first non-Blizzard game with the launch of Destiny 2. What seems like Activision Blizzard’s first step towards making a competitor to Valve's Steam is likely anything but that. To understand why, you have to look at what Battle.net is and what that means for Destiny 2, not what Destiny 2 means for Battle.net.
When Battle.net first launched, it was a tool to let Diablo players connect and play together online. It offered rudimentary social features, and the ability for players to join or host Diablo multiplayer servers. With each subsequent game Blizzard released, the developer continued to expand on what Battle.net was capable. Ladder ranking and copy protection (Starcraft), server-side character data storage (Diablo 2), and anonymous matchmaking for players of similar skill ranking (Warcraft 3). Battle.net 2.0, which debuted in 2009, brought all of these features under one application, giving players of World of Warcraft, or any Blizzard game, the ability to communicate with friends across games, servers, or characters.
The release of Diablo 3 for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in 2013 allowed Battle.net to link with consoles for the first time, although in a very limited capacity. Then in 2014, with the release of Hearthstone, Battle.net expanded its connectivity to iOS and Android as well. That same year, Bungie released Destiny on PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, and Xbox One. Being a console exclusive let Destiny leverage Sony's PlayStation Network and Microsoft's Xbox Live services as a way to handle much of the heavy lifting for player communication and social tools. Important features like voice chat, friends lists, and party systems are already built into those services.
With Destiny 2 coming to PC, there aren't many digital distribution platforms that can do what PSN and Xbox Live can. Electronic Arts’s Origin and Ubisoft's Uplay are obviously not options since they are run by rival publishers. Steam would normally be the de facto choice for games not published by EA or Ubisoft.
However, a unique set of circumstances make Battle.net not only possible but a better solution for Bungie to use on PC. For one thing, Destiny 2’s publisher Activision, and Blizzard are both subsidiaries of the same company, Activision Blizzard. So while the two might be separate from each other, it certainly makes it easier for Blizzard to provide this service to a game within their company than one being made outside of it. But utilizing Battle.net also provides Bungie all of the functionality it needs for Destiny 2 now and in the future.
For Blizzard, Battle.net has been a selling point for its games. It’s a service that can be tailored to fit the needs and unique features of each new game. Steam, on the other hand, isn’t able to provide that sort of bespoke functionality for each of the 11,000 plus games that are available on the service.
Battle.net also not only gives Destiny 2 the same functionality as its console counterparts, but it also provides the potential to link the console and PC versions together. This was something Valve incorporated into the PS3 version of Portal 2, even allowing PC and PS3 players to play co-operatively together, but nothing came of any further Steam integration with console games.
Even if Bungie doesn’t want console and PC players to play against each other, it still creates the option to potentially let players move between the different platforms. This became major feature for the console versions of Diablo 3. It let Xbox 360 players move their characters to Xbox One, and PS3 players transfer to PS4, and for a short time it even let players transfer between Sony’s and Microsoft’s platforms. Being able to do something like that with whatever the next generation of console hardware ends up being, or even letting players transfer to PC or vice versa, would be a huge feature for Destiny 2, providing a persistent platform for players.
Of course, Battle.net is obviously more profitable for Activision Blizzard, since Steam and other digital stores would take a cut from every sale. Which makes it easier to justify porting such a large and costly game to produce like Destiny 2. That said, it’s unclear whether or not other non-Blizzard games might be released on the platform in the future. Blizzard says that it’s “potentially evaluating needs or opportunities for future Activision games.”
Destiny 2 on Battle.net was a surprising announcement -- but maybe the biggest surprise is how well they fit together.
This week, Google announced a major expansion of its Daydream virtual reality platform. Daydream, currently only available on niche Android phones, is rolling out to the Samsung Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus this summer. That means that millions of smartphone owners will soon have two huge tech companies trying to sell them VR headsets.
Google is offering the $79 Daydream View, which you’ll need to launch Daydream apps on your phone. Samsung sells the $129 Gear VR, which lets you access Oculus Home, a platform created by Facebook-owned VR company Oculus. Both headsets work the same way: after you clip a phone into the headset, you can interact with VR experiences using a small handheld remote. But they look and feel very different, and each has a completely separate app ecosystem.
Unlike picking between two expensive desktop headsets like the Oculus Rift and HTC Vive, buying a mobile headset isn’t a huge investment — most of the cost is in the phone itself. Retailers and manufacturers also love offering VR headsets as sweeteners, so you may end up getting one (or maybe both) for free.
But if you’re going to buy a Gear VR or Daydream View, which one is a better use of your money? We’re here to answer that question.
You don’t want to order anything right now — it’ll likely be a couple of months at least until the update. But based on the current app ecosystem, you’ll find more to do on a Gear VR this summer, outweighing its higher price. It’s worth considering getting Daydream too, though, especially as its library expands. Keep an eye out for sales, and you may get both at a deep discount or completely free. And if you’re not wild about either one, you can hold off without feeling too much fear of missing out.
For the rationale behind this verdict, read on.
The Daydream View is $50 cheaper, for one thing. It’s more compact and less intimidating than the Gear VR, and it’s quicker and easier to insert your phone and get started. You’ll get access to YouTube VR, which is one of the default locations for posting 360-degree video. (You can access YouTube videos through Samsung’s Gear VR web browser, but it’s a lot less convenient.)
Daydream also connects you to a Google ecosystem that you’re probably already invested in. You don’t have to maintain a separate Oculus account, and Daydream lets you launch VR experiences directly from your home screen instead of going through another app. Daydream also makes it very easy to launch web-based VR experiences, and its VR version of Chrome will let you bookmark them on a desktop and come back to them later in VR.
Games and apps. Daydream boasts of its fast-growing catalog, but it’s still small compared to the Gear VR’s offerings, and it’s unlikely to reach parity by this summer. While it doesn’t have YouTube, there is a Facebook 360-degree video app. And unsurprisingly for a Facebook-owned company, Oculus has a more robust social environment so far, with shared rooms and unusually cool avatars.
The Gear VR hardware also has benefits. Its straps are less elegant but fit on your head more snugly, and it’s got a focus dial for different pupil distances, which can make the image clearer for some people. Its side trackpad also offers a failsafe if your controller runs out of battery, an issue I’ve had with the rechargeable Daydream remote.
The Gear VR isn’t an intrinsically better product or platform, but for now, you’ll find more to do on it, unless you’re specifically invested in YouTube’s 360-degree video. When you’re in a price range between “impulse purchase” and “major investment,” it’s worth paying more for something that will likely get the most use in the short term.
Mobile VR headsets are primarily entertainment devices, not vital productivity tools. And the entertainment they offer is fun, but it’s less sophisticated than what you’ll find on more mature mediums, and there’s not nearly as much of it. One of the most popular kinds of content — 360-degree video — is available outside VR, too.
Mobile VR headsets are also less comfortable than desktop ones, because you’re putting the weight of an entire phone on the front of your face. The controllers work impressively well considering the technical challenges involved, but they provide a limited range of motion.
I’d encourage anyone who’s interested in VR and has a Galaxy S8 to get a mobile headset. But it won’t hurt to wait a year or two and see how things develop. Google just opened submissions for Daydream’s Google Play section a few months ago, so the app selection may look very different by then. Besides, in the next generation of VR, the best mobile headsets might not even need phones.
AMD already had a huge win this year with its all-new Ryzen CPUs. Now the question is whether AMD can pull off another upset in the GPU space. AMD has been promising its new "Vega" architecture for over a year now, and it's time to see the results. Well, it's almost time.
This week AMD announced the Radeon Vega Frontier Edition, a high-end card that's aimed at professionals and workstations, not necessarily gamers. In fact, AMD explicitly suggests gamers wait "a little while longer" for a Radeon RX Vega card that will be cheaper and gaming-optimized.
The Radeon Vega Frontier Edition has 64 compute units, roughly 25 teraflops of half precision compute performance, and an enormous 16GB of HBM2 (High Bandwidth Memory, the sequel). The card has a huge performance advantage over existing professional AMD cards, even though it's built with the same 14nm process. The new memory has a lot to do with it, but Vega also adds other architecture optimizations designed to improve common workflows. Anandtech calculates the boost clock speed is around 1.59GHz, which also probably helps. According to AMD, it's the fastest graphics card in the world.
For instance, AMD claims the Vega Frontier Edition is 30 percent faster than Nvidia's Tesla P100 at machine learning jobs, and that it has a similar advantage over the current "world's fastest video card," Nvidia's Titan Xp, with popular CAD applications.
Of course, performance wins don't matter much when your card isn't on the market yet — Nvidia's Pascal architecture has been available for over a year, and AMD is definitely playing catchup.
The card will ship in late June, and we're supposed to get a few more details middle of June — like a price tag, presumably, and power requirements. The rest of the Vega lineup, built for regular humans who want to do this silly thing called "play video games," is supposed to hit sometime this summer.
Vine as we once knew it has already been shut down, but unfortunately that doesn’t mean the information you provided to the Twitter-owned company is secure. Twitter just sent out a mass email to Vine users alerting them of a “bug” that briefly allowed third parties to view email addresses and phone numbers associated with Vine accounts. If you get the email, your information was likely exposed — though that doesn’t necessarily mean it’s being misused by anyone. The company makes no mention of any passwords having been exposed during the window that it claims lasted “less than 24 hours.” Vine has also published a Medium post on the issue.
The bug affected the Vine Archive, which the company describes as a “time capsule” (perhaps graveyard?) of all Vines that were uploaded with the service. The Vine Archive remains viewable from web browsers, although no new uploads are supported; Vine’s smartphone app was repurposed into a camera app and can no longer browse the defunct social network.
Twitter is urging users who receive the email to remain alert for suspicious emails or text messages. The full email follows below.
Dear Vine account holder,
We are writing to let you know that we were alerted to — and immediately fixed — a bug that affected the Vine Archive for less than 24 hours. This bug had the potential to expose the email address and phone number associated with a Vine account to third parties under certain circumstances.
In our investigation, we discovered that the email address and phone number linked to your account were exposed. We want to emphasize that this information can't directly be used to access your account, and we have no information indicating that it has been misused. We take these incidents very seriously, and we're sorry this occurred.
As a security best practice, we recommend that you be cautious if you receive emails or text messages from unknown senders. Please keep in mind that Vine will only send you communications from @twitter.com, and we will never send emails with attachments or request your password by email.
For more tips on how to avoid fake emails and stay safe online, read the Twitter Help Center and the FTC's guide on phishing.
- Vine Support
One week after it first hit, researchers are getting a better handle on how the WannaCry ransomware spread so quickly — and judging from the early figures, the story seems to be almost entirely about Windows 7.
According to data released today by Kaspersky Lab, roughly 98 percent of the computers affected by the ransomware were running some version of Windows 7, with less than one in a thousand running Windows XP. 2008 R2 Server clients were also hit hard, making up just over 1 percent of infections.
#WannaCry infection distribution by the Windows version. Worst hit - Windows 7 x64. The Windows XP count is insignificant. pic.twitter.com/5GhORWPQij
Windows 7 is still by far the most common version of Windows, running on roughly four times as many computers as Windows 10 worldwide. Since more recent versions of Windows aren’t vulnerable to WannaCry, it makes sense that most of the infections would hit computers running 7. Still, the stark disparity emphasizes how small of a role Windows XP seems to have played in spreading the infection, despite early concerns about the outdated operating system.
The new figures also bear on the debate over Microsoft’s patching practices, which generated significant criticism in the wake of the attack. Microsoft had released a public patch for Windows 7 months before the attack, but the patch for Windows XP was only released as an emergency measure after the worst of the damage had been done. The patch was available earlier to paying Custom Support customers, but most XP users were left vulnerable, each unpatched computer a potential vector to spread the ransomware further. Still, Kaspersky’s figures suggest that unpatched XP devices played a relatively small role in the spread of the ransomware.
Some help is already arriving for systems infected by WannaCry. Because of sloppy coding, researchers have found that private system encryption keys can often be recovered from infected machines, allowing users to undo the damage done by the ransomware. A researcher from Quark Security has published an automated tool to manage that process, which should work for Windows 7, XP, Vista, and other affected versions.

Late last year, we showed you the Arc Hub, a circular USB-C hub we hoped would help improve the pitiful plight of third-party USB-C hubs currently on the market. After owning a 12-inch MacBook for two years now, I can tell you the only reliable option for a USB-C hub has been Apple’s $69 USB-C Digital AV Multiport Adapter, which only comes with a HDMI and USB-A port, alongside the pass through USB-C port for charging. It’s not ideal.
Thankfully, the Arc Hub looks to be the answer — at least in the short term — to the USB-C hub problem.
The Arc Hub, designed by Bourge Design, is the best USB-C hub available right now, although it’s not perfect. It’s difficult to use on the go, and with only one usable USB-C port (and only for charging) it will probably be outdated in a couple years. But if you need a USB-C hub today, this is your best bet.
The Arc Hub features two USB-C ports (one to connect to your device, one for pass-through charging), two USB 3.0 ports, HDMI port, MiniDisplayPort, and an SD card reader all contained in a circular aluminum enclosure.
Now, at first glance, the circular design seems like it would be an annoying hassle with cords sprayed around everywhere, but in use it actually hasn’t been an issue at all, thanks to the fact that all of the ports are housed on the left side of the Hub.
My daily setup is a 34-inch ultra-wide monitor at 1440p, an external hard drive, an iPhone charger, and my MacBook charger. With Apple’s adapter, I couldn’t have the external drive and the iPhone charger plugged in at the same time, but the Arc Hub makes it easier. And thanks to the circular design, the Macbook cable points to the back of my desk, the iPhone charger to the front, and everything else to the left side keeping the cord clutter away from my work space.
Data transfer speeds are great, the SD card reader — consistently the biggest flaw in third party USB-C hubs — has worked quickly and flawlessly for me, transferring just over 4GB of photos in under a minute. The HDMI 1.2 port supports 4K monitors at 30hz, while the MiniDisplay Port 1.4 supports 4K displays at 60hz. Dual monitors are supported via the two ports, but only one monitor can run at 4K (the other will be downgraded to 1080p).
My favorite feature of the Arc Hub is that it doesn’t overheat. I’ve had multiple USB-C hubs overheat to obscene temperatures while plugged into my MacBook, and the Arc Hub barely gets warm. Now, that isn’t really a feature at all, but it conveys how truly awful the current crop of third-party USB-C hubs have been for the past two years.
The biggest downside of the Arc Hub is the lack of USB-C ports you can use for anything but charging. USB-C is the future, and if you have a phone like the Samsung Galaxy S8 and you want to charge it while your computer is connected, you’re out of luck (unless you get an adapter). USB-C monitors are also a no go.
At a certain point you just run out of space for ports, and the Arc Hub already has seven, so maybe it wasn’t an oversight. But just one extra USB-C port would make this the perfect desk hub.
The other issue is portability. The Arc Hub is quite small and easy to carry around, but the circular design finally backfires if you don’t have a desk to place it on. Working with the Arc Hub with your laptop sitting on your legs for example, is an extreme challenge. The Hub is too heavy to dangle in the air like Apple’s adapter can, and the port layout is more challenging to use without a flat surface.
Despite those negatives, I would still have to recommend the Arc Hub for anyone who doesn’t have a USB-C monitor or doesn’t spend the majority of their time without access to a desk. The Arc Hub is currently available for pre-order for $119, with orders being delivered by early July. Once pre-orders are completed, the Arc Hub will cost $134 when it’s officially released in late July.
The seed bank designed to preserve the world’s crops and plants in the event of global disaster isn’t prepared to withstand the greatest global disaster facing our planet: global warming. Melting permafrost on the Norwegian island of Spitsbergen, where the Svalbard Global Seed Vault is located, has seeped into the seed bank, raising questions of how the structure will be able to survive in the future as the Earth keeps warming.
The seed vault is built in an abandoned Arctic coal mine, deep inside a mountain. It contains about a million packets of seeds from almost every country in the world, representing “the most diverse collection of food crop seeds.” In 2015, the ongoing civil war in Syria prompted researchers in the Middle East to withdraw some seeds to replace those previously stored in a gene bank in war-torn Aleppo.
The structure was built underneath the permafrost so it could be “a fail-safe seed storage facility, built to stand the test of time — and the challenge of natural or man-made disasters,” as the seed bank’s website says. But oh, the irony. Unusually warm temperatures in the winter have caused rain, and the permafrost has been melting. “It was not in our plans to think that the permafrost would not be there and that it would experience extreme weather like that,” Hege Njaa Aschim, from the Norwegian government, which owns the vault, told The Guardian.
Fortunately, the water hasn’t flooded the vault itself. It only got to the entrance of the tunnel, where it froze. (The seeds are stored at minus 0.4 degrees Fahrenheit.) But the incident has raised questions over the durability of a seed bank that was supposed to operate without people’s intervention.
The vault managers are now waterproofing the facility and digging trenches to channel melt and rainwater away, according to The Guardian. They’ve also installed pumps in case the vault floods again. “We have to find solutions. It is a big responsibility and we take it very seriously. We are doing this for the world,” Åsmund Asdal at the Nordic Genetic Resource Centre, which operates the seed vault, told The Guardian. “This is supposed to last for eternity.”
Few apps have made a more valiant effort to rescue us from indolence than Things, the to-do list app for Mac and iOS from German software developer Cultured Code. When it debuted as one of the original iPhone apps in 2008, Things was notable for its strong compatibility with Getting Things Done, the popular productivity system. Its original incarnation won an Apple Design Award, and by 2014 Things had sold 3 million copies of its iPhone app alone.
But in the intervening years, Things has come to look a little dated. Visually, it hadn’t quite shed the skeuomorphism of older versions of iOS. And while other to-do apps were focused on collaboration — encouraging small teams to subscribe to premium versions that let them delegate tasks to one another — Things remained a resolutely single-player game.
In 2014, when I evaluated the best to-do list apps on the market, I held off on including Things after the team told me they were hard at work on the next version of their app: Things 3. They had been working on it for two years — and would continue working on it for the next three.
And so when Things 3 finally arrived this week, for a certain kind of productivity nerd, it felt like a major event. I’ve been using the app on Mac and iOS for the past week, and have generally been impressed — despite a handful of flaws that will likely be deal-breakers for many. But mostly I want to talk about three things Things 3 does extremely well — and ought to inspire makers of to-do list apps the world over to imitate or improve on them.
The upcoming view. One of the chief design decisions the maker of a to-do list app has to make is how to display your upcoming tasks. OmniFocus, perhaps the most overpowered of all to-do lists, offers a “Forecast” view that shows you the number of tasks you have coming up over the next week. Todoist, which has been my to-do app of choice for the past two years, offers both “today” and “next 7 days” views that list your upcoming tasks in order.
Things 3 builds on this idea, ingeniously, by integrating your calendar. Connect to your Google account or other calendar service and you’ll see your appointments for the day, followed by any tasks that are due. “Today” shows you a single day; “Upcoming” offers you an infinite scroll into the future with whatever you have planned. A combined calendar, to-do list, and reminders app is something of a holy grail in the productivity world; Things 3 gets extremely close to realizing it.
Project completion circles. How close is your project to being complete? Other to-do list apps require you to look inside a project and estimate for yourself how much work it will take to perform the next steps. Things 3 answers this with a lovely visual metaphor: circles next to every project that fill in as you complete tasks. If a project has five parts and you’ve completed four of them, you’ll see a tiny sliver left to be done. It’s gimmicky, but I appreciated being able to see how close I was to finishing a given project at a glance.
The magic plus button. A good to-do list app makes it dead simple to create new tasks, and Things 3 has a fun tool to do just that. Cultured Code calls it the “magic plus button,” and it appears in a big blue circle at the bottom right-hand corner of the app. But it doesn’t just stay there: you can tap and drag it up and down, and side to side, and where it lands changes what it creates. Move it to the inbox and you can create a task without a due date there. Slide it up and you can create a new task within a larger project. Or drag it into your project list to create a new project immediately.
There’s other great stuff here, too. You can set a task to “evening” — a useful designation for all the stuff you’re saving for after work. “Anytime” and “Someday” lists encourage you to daydream. And the individual tasks cards are designed with beautiful minimalism.
So what are the potential deal-breakers? One, Things requires you to live entirely within the Mac ecosystem — if you’re away from your devices, you can’t even access your work from the web. Two, Things is still for individuals — there’s no easy way to collaborate with colleagues on your projects. Three, there’s no natural-language input in the task entry window. On many to-do apps, including Todoist, you can type in something like “finish assignment by 2P Wednesday” and the app will attach the appropriate due date. On Things, you can only access natural-language input after clicking the date picker. Then there’s Things’ business model, which also feels a bit dated: instead of paying a single subscription fee to access all of the companies’ apps, you have to buy the iPhone, iPad, Mac, apps separately. (They are $10, $20, and $50 respectively.)
Despite those faults, I’ve switched over to Things to manage my tasks, at least for now. And who can blame me? No piece of software is more tempting than a brand-new to-do-list. Installed on your phone, it becomes a wonderland of possibility — a blank canvas on which you can project your wildest dreams, and through the power of software achieve them. Never mind that your determination will falter. That the tasks you entered so lovingly will refuse to do themselves, and will instead glare at you from your to-do app, making a mockery of your dreams. Never mind that you will delete it, and resolve to better yourself the only way you know how: by returning to the App Store, and buying a new to-do app.
Things is now available for iPhone, iPad, and Mac.
Correction, 3:44 p.m.: This post has been updated to reflect that natural-language input is available in the date picker.
Design showcase Sight Unseen Offsite kicks off today in New York City, and among the featured exhibitors was Austin-based startup Twyla, an online marketplace specializing in licensed art prints. For first-time buyers who are intimidated by art auctions, or put off by dropping an insane amount of cash for an original painting, Twyla offers limited-edition prints individually numbered and signed by artists.
Inside the Twyla booth were artworks featured on the site, and in front of each print was a Samsung Gear VR. Upon putting it on, the viewer can enter a room designed around the concept of the artwork, each of them highlighting one of this year’s top interior trends chosen by Sight Unseen curators.
The virtual reality rooms were created by artist Tom Hancocks, whose art prints are also exclusively featured on the marketplace. Here’s some stills of the 360 experience:
Of course, any print looks good if imagined in an ultra-cool virtual reality room that doesn’t exist in real life. These swanky VR rooms can’t substitute the actual experience of living with the artwork in your own home, which is just fine — Twyla offers $30 trials  where you can live with their print for 30 days, with some cities even offering professional installation. If you decide to keep the artwork, you can just pay off the remaining balance of the piece.
If you’d like to check out the VR rooms for yourself, in addition to some incredible design displays from independent studios, Sight Unseen Offsite is happening Friday, May 19th to Monday, May 22nd at 100 Avenue of the Americas. Admission is $10. For our first-hand experience of the exhibition, check out our Instagram Story!
Some of the biggest news to come out of Google I/O this week was that Google Assistant is coming to iOS, looking to take a shot at Siri, Apple’s own entrenched AI assistant. While Assistant has been available on Android for a while now, how does the AI assistant stack up against Siri when its forced to go head-to-head on Apple’s far more limited playing field? We put the two head-to-head.
One of the most important parts of any AI assistant is how easy it is to access. One of the biggest selling points of Amazon’s Echo hardware is the always-listening feature that lets Alexa always be on hand to respond to any queries or commands. On Android, Assistant has deep, OS-level hooks that make it more more accessible and functional. But on iOS, things are a little tougher.
Siri: On Apple’s hardware, Siri still has a massive home court advantage when it comes to actually starting the digital assistant. Namely, Siri is baked into iOS on a core level — its accessible from anywhere, whether you’re in an app or at your lock-screen by simply holding down the home button. Siri is also always listening, too, and can be activated anytime through a “Hey, Siri” command on newer iPhones (although the feature, like much of Siri these days, feels largely half-baked.)
Assistant: Google is making a big play here with Assistant, but it’s fighting an uphill battle here with the inherent limitations Apple has on iOS. That means that Assistant lives in the Assistant app. But Google is doing its best to put Assistant in as many places as possible: there’s an Assistant widget to quick launch the app, which is accessible from both the notification shade, the lock screen, and the home screen. Plus, there’s a 3D Touch action to also start Assistant.
Unlike when Siri first launched back in 2011, AI assistants can’t just work with a single device anymore. Working on an iPhone is one thing — but working across an entire ecosystem is a whole other ballgame.
Siri: The best thing that can be said about Apple’s assistant is that it exists on a variety of hardware platforms. If you’ve got an Apple Watch, a Mac, or an Apple TV, you can use Siri on it, but that’s about the extent of it. Siri on different platforms largely exist as separate things — you can’t use the native Siri on your iPhone to play a song on your Apple TV, for example, or use Siri on your Apple TV to make a call.
Controlling smart home utilities with Siri only works if manufacturers support Apple’s HomeKit, and you’ll need either an Apple TV or iPad to serve as a hub. Plus, you’re still locked strictly to Apple’s ecosystem — if Cupertino doesn’t make hardware for it (like, say, an Amazon Echo-like speaker), then you can’t use Siri on it.
Assistant: Obviously, just like Siri works with Apple stuff, Assistant works with Google stuff. That means Chromecast, Android phones, and of course, Google Home. But one of the announcements to Assistant at I/O was that third-party hardware manufacturers would be able to integrate Assistant into their own devices, which means that there could be a much larger ecosystem for Assistant in the near future.
Google also showed off how Assistant can work across multiple devices — using a Chromecast to display visual results from a Google Home, suggesting a more universal experience than Siri. How that will work in practice is still somewhat unclear, given that the feature doesn’t seem to be available yet (at least through Assistant on an iPhone.) But it speaks to Google’s larger ambitions of having a unified Assistant platform across all devices.
Of course, an assistant is only useful if it can actually assist you with things. And at this point, there's basic table stakes that both platforms are able to accomplish — basic queries of the weather and sports scores, calendar reminders, alarms, etc. That said, there are clear differences between the two in terms of the extent of their abilities.
Siri: Siri is able to do more advanced queries like tell you the time difference between two cities or what the price of gasoline is in San Fransisco, typically drawing on resources like Wolfram Alpha and Wikipedia to answer, but in practice I’ve generally find it easier and more reliable to just Google the question.
And most of Siri's functional advantages — things like opening up apps or sending iMessages — stem from the aforementioned platform advantage than any intrinsic usefulness to Siri itself.
Assistant: Even with the limitations of iOS, Assistant gets a lot done. You can play videos in YouTube, add reminders and events through Google Calendar, and send emails through Gmail. Plus, there’s the usual AI assistant queries of stocks, the weather, and maps that’s common to both Siri and Assistant. Google has also tried its best to offer messaging and call support on iOS, but it can only get so far — both will get you 99 percent of the way there before passing you back to Apple’s apps for actually sending the message or placing a call. Meanwhile, things like setting an alarm just aren’t possible with Assistant on iOS, and others — like playing music, which shunts you over to YouTube — work, but are a bit of a hack.
But even putting aside those similarities, Assistant has the entire power of Google’s Knowledge Graph behind it, which means that the breadth of information it can answer is wider than Siri’s. Also, Assistant just seems to work better in my experience when it comes to both understanding words and responding quickly.
That said, some of the more impressive features of Assistant from Google I/O simply aren’t here yet. The impressive Google Lens augmented reality camera, or even simpler demos like the interactive Panera order seen on stage aren’t part of the app yet.
Amazon has really led the way with developer supporter when it comes to Alexa, with over 10,000 different third-party skills available. Siri and Assistant both have some third-party support, but both companies could stand to take a page from Amazon's book here.
Siri: Apple finally added third-party developer support for Siri with iOS 10, but it's still limited — developers can’t make Siri integrations for mapping or music apps, an intentional limitation that forces you to use Apple’s own Music and Maps services, even if you prefer Google and Spotify. Developers for Siri extensions are instead limited to seven categories of integration: ride book, messaging, photo search, payments, VoIP calling, workouts, and climate and radio. So even if you’d wanted to build a Siri extension to play Jeopardy or tell you how many people are in space right now, you can’t.
Assistant: Google also took things slowly when it came to building out Google Assistant and Google Home's third-party abilities, but at I/O this year it opened the door for developers to make extensions for Assistant on both Home and phones. Plus, those actions won’t be targeted to specific devices — rather, if your hardware can support the skill (which could, say, require a screen to function), it’ll be able to access it. But it’s up to developers to actually build out the ecosystem.
Answering questions and search is only half the equation, though. AIs also need to be able to actively do things for you, make your life easier. Neither platform is outstanding at this yet, but it’s definitely something to keep an eye on in the future both digital assistants continue to mature.
Siri: Siri is a mixed bag when it comes to actually accomplishing tasks for you. In theory, you can look up restaurant reservations or movie times through OpenTable or Fandango, but it will still fall on you to actually complete the task yourself. Other things, like booking an Uber can be done entirely through Siri, as can sending money through Square Cash or Venmo, but that’s pretty much as far as it can go.
Assistant: Like Siri, Assistant is also limited when it comes to actually doing things for you, at least for now, and some things that Siri can do — like summon an Uber — aren’t on Assistant for now. But, as mentioned before, Google has high hopes for what can eventually be done with assistant, like sending flowers or ordering lunch, but right now things are still extremely limited on an iPhone. But if Google (and the third party developers it needs to jump on board) can actually ship some of the integrations shown off at I/O this year, Assistant could get a huge leg up on Siri.
Directly comparing any third party AI assistant — whether from Google, Microsoft, or another company — to Siri is always going to be a tough proposition, given how locked down iOS is on a system level and Apple’s tight control over the platform.
As things stand right now, between Siri’s advantages when it comes to native integration to things like messaging and music, along with the system-wide availability that makes it accessible at any time means that in most cases, it’s easier to use Apple’s assistant. While Assistant does clearly best Siri when it comes to overall knowledge and support for Google services, (including Maps) the current implementation just isn’t so dramatically better at these tasks that it’s worth the extra inconvenience of working around Apple’s sandboxing.
That said, Google does have some seriously impressive ambitions for Assistant that could shift the scales in its favor. But those features aren’t here yet, and for what Assistant can do on iOS now, Siri — while not great — is good enough.
Let’s get one thing out of the way: no matter what movies like Limitless claim, humans use more than 10 percent of our brains. This isn’t a surprise to a lot of people, but there’s more to the science of our cognitive potential than knowing that it can’t be true that 90 percent of our gray matter is inactive.
The claim has been around for a long time, but where did it come from, anyway? And why are we so eager to believe it? How much of our brain do we really use — and is there a limit to what we can learn?
The Verge spoke to University College London neuroscientist Sophie Scott to clear up some of these questions.
Back in 1991, when David Lynch and Mark Frost’s groundbreaking TV melodrama Twin Peaks was cancelled, it left viewers with a lot of unanswered questions. Some of them were central to the series’ dreamy, surreal mysteries. Others were more immediate, and were deliberately left dramatically hanging in the series finale, which left so many characters apparently dead, and protagonist Dale Cooper possessed or outright replaced by an evil spirit. Fans hoped to see Cooper’s story resolved in the subsequent movie, 1992’s Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me, but that film turned out to be a prequel that left the series largely unaddressed.
So speculation is high over how Lynch and Frost’s new Twin Peaks will take up the threads of the original TV show. The 18-episode limited series, which begins with a two-hour premiere on Showtime this Sunday, May 21, is expressly intended as a sequel that takes up the action of the original 1990s run, 25 years later. But that doesn’t mean it’ll answer fans’ longstanding questions. Lynch has always been an oblique storyteller who’s more interested in symbolism and mood than in laying out clear, linear stories. Given the series’ casting, it’s pretty clear that we’re going to find out certain characters aren’t dead — for instance, Sherilyn Fenn, whose character was last seen trapped in a bank next to a bomb going off, is returning in her role. But it’s certainly worth wondering whether the new show will clear up any of the mysteries that have stuck with us.
Tasha: I first watched Twin Peaks back when it originally aired in the early 1990s, back when there was nothing else like it on TV. Back then, long-arc storytelling hadn’t become standard for American TV. It was before every genre-leaning show had a dedicated internet fandom standing by to pick apart its mysteries, and before showrunners designed series to keep those fandoms guessing and wondering. So the show’s mysteries, which stretched out over an entire season, seemed like an entirely new approach to storytelling in prime time. But Lynch and his team weren’t particularly interested in answering the questions they raised — Lynch famously didn’t even want to reveal the answer to the central murder-case question that defined the show, “Who killed homecoming queen Laura Palmer?” ABC pushed him to solve that case onscreen, but there were plenty of other surreal show elements that were introduced over the course of its two-season run. And when I say certain plot elements have bugged me over the years, I’m literally talking about things I’ve sat with for 25 years now, wondering if they’d ever be resolved.
The number one question is the fate of the soul of Agent Dale Cooper, played by Kyle MacLachlan. The original series’ final episode has him entering the Black Lodge, “a place of almost unimaginable power, chock full of dark forces and vicious secrets,” where evil spirits might “offer up a power so vast that its bearer might reorder the Earth itself to his liking.” Fans have spent decades debating the exact meaning of everything that happens to Cooper in the Lodge in that last episode, but what’s undisputable is that something comes out of the Lodge wearing his face, and not acting much like him at all. So what I want first and foremost out of a new Twin Peaks story is an understanding of what went on in the Lodge, how it changed Coop, and what that means about the state of the war between good, evil, and the possibly non-aligned spiritual forces haunting the town of Twin Peaks. What most matters for you guys? What are you hoping to learn from the new show, or failing that, what do you want out of it in general?
Lizzie: The first thing that always comes to mind when people talk about Twin Peaks making zero sense is "The owls are not what they seem." This is what The Giant says when he visits Coop in his hotel room, and it's probably one of Twin Peaks' most recognizable quotes. But what does it actually mean? Are all the owls in the woods just pleasant decoration? Or are they a symbol? A metaphor? A hint that this revival was always going to come? Presumably Lynch has had to hire some new owl actors this time around, but maybe their role will be less opaque now.
There’s always the possibility I don’t really want this revival to give me any answers at all; I just want it to make me feel like I did in 2011. Except I would like someone to solve the mystery of James’ singing voice.
Kwame: The thing that always stuck out to me was Killer Bob. I’m intentionally using the word “thing,” because what is he? As someone who never made it through the second season’s endless digressions, I’ve only watched a handful of episodes here and there up to Agent Cooper’s visit to the Black Lodge. But Bob still gets me. Not just because he’s so creepy and demonic, because that’s obvious. I just think it’s fascinating that this otherworldly evil is embodied by this long-haired dude wearing a lot of denim. What does that say about Lynch’s cosmology? Is Hell populated by random guys in jean jackets, sneering into the ether? And if so, what do the other spirits and beings look like? We’re so used to angels and demons looking a certain way, as beautiful or terrifying, but ultimately conventional. In that framework, I’d imagine Bob being this blob-monster with tentacles. But Lynch, who has never hidden his deep belief in the spiritual, is doing something completely different. My question, then, is what the hell does Lynch think evil looks like in the world of Twin Peaks? Does he believe there’s something Lovecraftian in the ordinary? In a way, that’s probably scarier than Cthulhu, right?
Bryan: I’m going to strike a contrary tone here and say that there actually aren’t any specific plot questions for Twin Peaks that I’m concerned about going into the new season. (Well, I have always wondered what was going on with Josie and the drawer knob, but that’s pretty standard-issue.)
Twin Peaks as a plot-driven show more or less ended for me when Laura Palmer’s murder was solved. After that, few specifics left an impression. I actually didn’t realize how little had stuck with me until I recently rewatched the entire series (and Fire Walk With Me) last month. It honestly felt like I was watching the second season for the first time — that’s how little of an impact the machinations and weird developments had. What I did remember was the tone. That strange dreamy mix Lynch excels at, mixing the familiar with the surreal to create the outright terrifying.
People can certainly argue that the first two-thirds of Twin Peaks excelled because it combined that quality with the more traditional — read: coherent — narrative structure of TV, but as odd as the show is at times, there’s magic in how purely Lynchian it became. That probably explains my complicated relationship with the prequel movie Fire Walk With Me, which Lynch has said is integral to understanding the new show. I originally loved that film, and I was enraptured when I rewatched it. It’s gonzo and bizarre, but it plays like a more refined version of that second-season strangeness, shot through with the absolutely heartbreaking terror of Laura Palmer’s final days.
It’s a delicate mix, and one I can’t help but think Showtime executives would run from, screaming. But in a way, it’s the truest example of what Twin Peaks became as it evolved. My ultimate question going in is whether Lynch’s new Twin Peaks will be able to hit that same kind of tonal balance, using both the familiar and the bizarre to disarm the audience, and lead us into truly emotionally devastating territory. And if it can hit it, can it maintain it for 18 episodes? So much serialized TV has become focused on plotting and fan debate around story theories. I would welcome a chance to just float on the tide of Lynch’s mind.
Tasha: I understand just wanting that Twin Peaks feeling back. And I understand thinking that the exact mechanics of why Nadine has super-strength don’t matter, and that you don’t need to know whether the Log Lady’s log really houses the spirit of her dead husband, or she’s just crazy, or it’s something else entirely.
But the original Peaks was a mystery series, full of dangling plot threads and unexplained occurrences. Some of those are nonsense, apparently thrown in by a post-Lynch writing crew without a clear plan for what they were doing. Lynch himself has said he not only wasn’t involved in the second season, he stopped watching the show entirely. So while I’d love an explanation for why Josie Packard’s soul appears to be trapped in a dresser-drawer knob, I don’t expect one.
But the larger framework of the series is about human emotion, and about a great spiritual war that intersects with that emotion. And that’s where I want to understand the shape of the story. Am I the only one who wonders what the Black Lodge is plotting, and what kind of agenda the dwarf and the giant and their kind have for humanity? You aren’t left wondering about all the weird spirits and their adjacent people (like Mike, or the Tremonds, or Garland Briggs) and whether they’re on the same side or represent many different factions? Or how Annie got Theresa's ring, and what their connection means? On the soap-opera scale, don’t you care whether Big Ed feels forced to stay with Nadine now that she’s recovered her memory, or whether he finally can return to Norma now that Hank is dead? Or how (or whether) Leo Johnson got out from under that dangling cage of tarantulas? Or whether Annie is even still alive? You really don’t wonder how’s Annie?
Lizzie: Once you brought the Tremonds into this, I realized there were about 42 characters I barely remember. Like Harold Smith, the unpredictable recluse who was friends with Laura, or anyone involved in the One-Eyed Jacks scheme. Related to One-Eyed Jacks, I’d like to get some answers about Jacques Renault’s death. He was smothered with a pillow in a hospital bed by Leland Palmer. Everyone assumed Leland was seeking revenge for Laura’s death, except Coop, who suspected Leland was trying to prevent Renault from implicating him in the crime. Who’s right? And when Killer Bob has taken over someone, does that person know they are Bob? Is Leland Palmer simultaneously Leland Palmer and Bob, or does Bob take over completely?
Kwame: I’m typically an “all the pieces matter” kind of viewer, but seeing as I bowed out right around the time Lynch left the show, I tend to think his influence as a writer and not so much a creator of mood is what will bring me back. The details I care about have everything to do with the core good-vs.-evil conflict between Bob and the spirits haunting Twin Peaks, and far less to do with the townsfolk. I like Big Ed and Nadine, but they were never what got me to watch the show. It was Laura Palmer, and her place in this larger spiritual war.
And don’t forget. The limited series is taking place a full 25 years after the events of the original run. The Log Lady is long gone. (RIP Catherine Coulson, who played her on the show.) Given Coop’s vision from the first season, will Coop’s soul return and do battle with Bob? What does it mean that that might be possible? Those questions matter to me the most.
Bryan: It’s funny, if the show had ended just after the reveal that Leland Palmer killed Laura, I suspect I would have the same questions you all do. But fresh from a rewatch, those actually aren’t the questions that leap to my mind. Perhaps it’s just season two and Fire Walk With Me talking, but I don’t expect anything to come together in a traditional narrative sense — and I honestly won’t be disappointed if we learn nothing about the giant, the dwarf, or his formica table.
If anything, I think that is the version of Twin Peaks I would actually find disappointing. We’ve had plenty of wonderful procedurals since the original show, and plenty of serialized murder mysteries. But I never loved Twin Peaks because it had a tightly conceived mythology, or was a wonder of a whodunnit. I loved it because it was a waking dream that worked on emotional and visceral levels. Were the soap-opera and mystery elements part of that larger whole? Certainly. But they were threads in a larger tapestry. I’m probably putting an impossible amount of pressure on the show here, but in my wildest dreams, I want it to do what the original did: surprise me by going in directions I could never anticipate.
Every week, a slew of new music videos hits the web. Watching them at your desk is not time theft because you deserve it; think of it as a nice reward for surviving another work week. But what if you don’t have time to watch every video? Maybe you have a deadline, a hungry pet, or other grown-up concerns. In consideration of your schedule, Lizzie and Kaitlyn bring you a series called One Video. Each week we’ll tell you “one video” you need to watch, why, and for how long.
Lizzie:  Most people would not remain calm if their nose-diving speedboat was being circled by a shark, and their lifejacket was floating towards the sunset. Vince Staples, in this video, and one would assume, in any similar situation, remains calm.
The song itself is a good late-night summer track, with bass so heavy it could leave a bruise. I think it would go over well at your next beach party.
Kaitlyn: Speaking of staying calm, and of beaches, I’d like to add that Vince contributed a song to Baywatch (Music from the Motion Picture). So he loves beaches, beach dangers, and procedural solutions to beach dangers. I would guess. That song, called “BagBak,” features a really good lyric: “Boy I’m buoyant, we are / floating on them peons.”
Lizzie: Vince Staples is a rapper from Long Beach, CA, so he’s presumably familiar with the biology of marine life.
Kaitlyn: Actually, no, I’m sorry Lizzie, he isn’t very familiar with it. In this video, Vince Staples releases a goldfish into the ocean. Goldfish cannot live in salt water, even for the sake of imaginative imagery. We nearly disqualified Vince from One Video consideration because The Verge is a publication dedicated to facts and science, but in the end we reasoned that art can take some liberties once in a while.
Lizzie:  The goldfish gets pretty big by the end of the video, which you could attribute to salt bloat, but I have seen a big goldfish before.
Kaitlyn: Yes, it’s a metaphor. Vince is in the phase of his career where he has to go from being a well-known, beloved person in his home state of California (a small pond) to a not-quite-as-well-known but critically acclaimed and pretty well-liked person in the broader United States (the ocean). He talks about death a lot, so the goldfish-in-salt metaphor is pretty good.
Lizzie: “Big Fish” is special because it’s relatable and could be a metaphor for absolutely anything. Are you a big fish in a small pond? A big fish in a big pond? Are you trying to keep your head above water while everything around you points to imminent danger? Are you a pescatarian?
Kaitlyn: “Big Fish” is special because it’s a good reminder that not all of your summer jams have to be peppy, it’s okay to indulge in some humidity-induced gloom, and a good reminder that Vince Staples is releasing a new album soon called Big Fish Theory. It should also give you a little nudge to recall some of Vince’s other music videos, which he famously comes up with the concepts for himself. For example, in a 10-minute short film for his 2016 EP Prima Donna, Vince raps as a bobblehead version of himself.
Personally, “Big Fish” is a good reminder of the time I went to a Vince Staples concert with my friend Lizzie, who writes one half of One Video every week.
Lizzie: Kaitlyn says there was a goldfish at that show. I don’t know what she means. Maybe there was one.
Kaitlyn: There was, and it was integrated into the light show and graphics that accompanied the music. It was Vince’s way of hinting that this day — the day of the “Big Fish” video — would come eventually. Lizzie couldn’t see it because there were tall men in front of her, and she’s quite small.
Lizzie:  I would stop watching just before the end when something unseemly may or may not happen to Vince.
Kaitlyn: As is often the case, I pick “watch it the whole time.” If you watch all of “Big Fish” you might be lucky enough to discover that the YouTube algorithm has queued up a Pitchfork interview next. In it, Vince Staples says he believes Bill Nye the Science Guy is underrated: “Bill Nye is the reason all these kids know how to proportion their lean in their beverages.” It turns out Vince is a science fan after all.
I might sound stereotypical as hell here, but I’m Italian and I care a lot about food. I also think Italian food is the best food in the world, and I get mad if you bastardize Italian dishes with ingredients that have nothing to do with it. Like, why would you create a burger pizza? (I ate it, with pickles and all, and no, it had no reason to be.)
That’s why I was delighted when a friend (also Italian) pointed me to the Twitter account Italians Mad at Food. It’s a fantastic collection of comments by Italians watching video recipes of Italian dishes — and getting pissed off, really pissed off, the Italian way. Here are some examples:
pic.twitter.com/jRbmwkMRvT
pic.twitter.com/KNEukMFKxo
I just love how passionate these people are. I feel their pain, their indignation, and seeing their comments pop up in my news feed always gives me a smile. So I decided to reach out to the person behind this, who tweets from the account @prodigis. To my surprise, the genius who created Italians Mad at Food is not Italian at all. His name is Zach Champion, a 25-year-old electronic music producer and writer who lives in Michigan.
We talked about how Italians Mad at Food came to be, how he runs it, and how the account is going to change in the future.
The interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.
When and why did you start Italians Mad at Food?
I started it back in December. I was sucked up as much as anyone else in this pretty rapidly accelerating trend of sped-up, gimmicky recipe videos on Facebook, like Tasty and Tastemade, that just seemed to come out of nowhere and then they were everywhere. Gradually, I just started noticing that any time they’d post pasta or pizza recipes, they’d get this unrelenting torrent of vitriol from sometimes the same people commenting on every video — this pretty broad swath of very traditionalist Italian cooks and consumers.
So on my personal Twitter account, I started tweeting a couple of those and they didn’t really stick, but somehow I knew that this is hilarious. I read them to my friends sometimes and they agreed that it was hilarious. Even though my personal account didn’t get much traction, I had a gut feeling that there was a market out there for people who would enjoy this. So kind of embracing the more absurdist humor that I liked from elsewhere on Twitter, I put together the image one day and I found that picture of Luigi angrily cooking the pizza. I’m pretty impressed by how easily it came together as a concept. It was especially enticing to me because it’d be such an easy account to run. I can just let these people speak for themselves.
pic.twitter.com/SK5OkbVPOQ
You only follow two Twitter accounts: Tasty and Tastemade. Why is that?
I wanted to keep the account as stripped down of personality as possible — the channel by which I can give people these funny reactions. The account often has a voice because I interject my own comments on things at times. It’s mostly just an effort to keep it as focused on the comments as possible. It is an account dedicated to watching Tasty and Tastemade, and seeing when people get mad at them.
The account is pretty active, which is why I think it’s successful. How do you go about finding these comments?
Oh gosh, I have sat for probably an unhealthy number of hours, I’ve pretty much watched or at least read the comments of every recipe video that talks about pasta or pizza or any other traditional Italian dish, from the beginning of 2016 / late 2015 on to the present at least. I just dedicated an afternoon to go check that I didn’t miss any funny accounts that are getting yelled at. Tasty and Tastemade alone have enough, honestly. I’ve got like 780 screenshots saved in a folder that are waiting to go up. I’m pretty much set for two years.
780 screenshots? I didn’t know Italians were that passionate.
Yeah. There are so many of them. They're very passionate. And you know, you’ll have one person make a top-level comment and then 90 people will get into this huge argument. You start breaking into that and content is endless. So I go in in bulk and just watch as many videos I can find. I don’t ever repost, not on purpose anyway. I schedule them out two months in advance, so I don’t have to think about them. I check the notifications every day, just because I love that. People have such great reactions.
pic.twitter.com/9KlMjCdEqI
What’s the feedback been?
I’ve been shocked really by the demographic variety. I have a huge following in Brazil that I never expected. So I get a lot of responses in Portuguese that I can read poorly translated interpretations of. It’s an even split between either folks from Italy or of Italian descent who relate heavily. I get a lot of, “this is me.” Some people [complain about] national stereotyping, which was not my intent. But I’d say the vast bulk of it is pretty positive.
I think people are just fascinated mostly by the ability of a lot of the commenters who are clearly writing with English as a second language to get their point across with extremely specific and concise insults. Even if some of the grammar and the vocabulary trips them up along delivery, the ultimate message of why exactly the dish sucks and why that person really needs to rethink their decision is always just so colorful. The most successful posts are usually the ones that are a bit outside of the norm, where it’s not just “my eyes are bleeding,” “my grandmother would die if she saw this.” Those are nice but it’s the ones where people go the extra mile to really get underneath the recipe skin.
Why do you think Italians are so passionate about it?
Well, in their own words, and I’ve come to agree on this with a lot of them, their cuisine is very much a part of their national identity. And places like America, while sure we have some sort of quasi-original cuisine, mostly we are an amalgamation of immigrant cuisines and regional classics and things like that. They raise the point a lot that somebody from a country like America — [where people] don’t have a heritage connection to what they eat, where it’s just what they need to live off of or what they think tastes best, where they can try a totally different classification of food every day if they wanted to — can’t really understand what it’s like to see all of a sudden in the age of the internet that the rest of the world has been cooking your food slightly differently every time until it becomes completely unrecognizable.
pic.twitter.com/6zuNo68Pnv
Have you ever been contacted by people who complained that you tweeted their comments?
No, I never had anyone reach out in a negative way. I had one woman, she just responded to a tweet that was of her and said, “hey, that’s me!” I was nervous about it at first because I wasn’t sure if it was too invasive. But then it kind of occurred to me that all of the comments I’m screenshotting are on public pages, and they’re usually the top-voted ones way at the top of the comment section. I mean, if anybody reached out to me and asked me to take it down, I would do so. I’ve kind of worked past that moral quandary for the moment on that justification.
What are your plans for the future of the account?
The current model of the account — just tweet out a couple screenshots every day — will continue for the foreseeable future until it stops being funny and nobody wants to pay attention to it anymore. But I want to tie in a bit of myself to the account intermittently. I mentioned that I make music and that’s something that I want to try to boost the visibility of. I might put together some sort of compilation — a 20-second-long best of the month, with original soundtrack. But things like that hopefully won’t subtract from the overall ethos of the account, but just give a more direct link to my own personal projects and my own personal account. It’s not without motive. I do this because it’s fun and I think these comments are hilarious and I’m glad that it resonated and people are having fun with it, but I am also still kind of an opportunist. I cannot deny it.
Just across the bay from San Francisco, a group of Oakland Technical High School students has been meeting twice a week for months, hacking away on robots slated to compete in two of the most important series of student robotics competitions in the world.
At Oakland Tech, around 20 high schoolers have been building robots for the Vex tournament and for the FIRST competition, where thousands of students go head to head to see which team can build the most capable machine.
The robots are supposed to be able to do random, albeit challenging, tasks. In this year’s Vex event, which took place in January in Mountain View, Calif., at the Google Campus, the Oakland club was tasked with making a robot that can pick up small star-shaped figurines and throw them over a fence. For the local FIRST competition, which was held in San Francisco in March, the team had to build and program a robot that could pick up a cog and hang it on a peg.
Building these robots means piecing together a body, getting the motors working, then programming it to carry out an order. And it all has to work together without a hitch. It’s not easy.
While Oakland’s team has won awards at robotics tournaments against contestants from all over the world, the team also stands out in other ways.
“When we go to competitions, we really don’t look like the other teams that are there,” said Kai Drayton-Yee, one of the leaders of Oakland Tech’s robotics team, who is Chinese, Japanese and black. “A lot of it is white, male dominated and heteronormative.”
Oakland Tech’s robotics club is led by three non-male-identified students.
“We generally have the highest number of women on our team,” said Drayton-Yee. “And we generally have the most people of color on our team, too.”
Their robotics club doesn’t look much like a typical group of engineers in Silicon Valley, either.
At Google, for instance, only 1 percent of its tech employees are black, only 3 percent are Hispanic and only 19 percent of all its tech employees are women.
Likewise, at Facebook, 1 percent of its tech employees are black, 3 percent are Hispanic and 17 percent are women, according to data released by the company last summer. In its blog post about the report, Facebook blamed a lack of available talent on what’s called the “pipeline” problem, lamenting that there aren’t enough diverse candidates entering the tech industry.
(It’s worth noting, though, that multiple reports have found there are more black and Latino computer science engineers entering the workforce than are being hired by tech companies.)
One likely reason for the shortage of candidates is a dearth of technology education in public schools.
Computer science education in public high schools across the country is rare, particularly in areas with high minority populations. But in Oakland, one of the most diverse cities in the country, that’s changing.
In 2015, only three public high schools in Oakland offered computer science courses. But this school year, 14 do, out of 17 high schools district-wide.
There are now 2,853 Oakland public high school students enrolled in computer science, up more than three times from the 685 that were enrolled in it during the previous school year.
For comparison, 10 of the 14 public high schools in San Francisco now offer computer science courses. (Though the cosmopolitan city just north of Silicon Valley has seen its overall public high school enrollment shrink after the late-1990s tech boom, as many of San Francisco’s wealthy residents opted to send their kids to private schools.)
Statewide in California, only 35 percent of high schools offer any computer science courses, according to data from the Level Playing Field Institute.
Computer science education is also expanding across the country. Chicago offers computer science at approximately 65 of its 106 public high schools. In Los Angeles, of the city’s 97 public high schools, 74 currently offer computer science courses. In Miami, all public high schools offer the courses, and in Washington, D.C., 10 of its 16 public high schools do. The data was compiled by the school districts for Recode.
The computer science expansion at Oakland high schools was funded in part by a $5 million grant from Intel to grow the programs over the next five years. By 2018, the district plans for every public high school in Oakland to offer computer engineering courses. Now that it is part of Oakland’s core academic requirements, every freshman is required to take computer science if it’s offered at their school.
But nationwide, only seven states have standards for computer science in K-12 education, according to data from the nonprofit Code.org, and only 32 states allow computer science to count toward high school graduation — otherwise it’s an elective.
“Hundreds of students across the district will now be creating applications and hardware projects, like robotics or websites,” said Claire Shorall, who teaches calculus and computer science at Castlemont High School in Oakland and spearheaded the school district’s computer science expansion. “I think what we’re going to see are ideas that haven’t yet entered the market, because students from diverse backgrounds will create things we haven’t seen before.”
“Forty-five percent of all computer science students in Oakland Unified are young women, and our numbers for African American and Latino students far exceed what we see in the tech workforce,” Shorall said.
Most of the Oakland school district’s computer science teachers started as teachers in other areas and were trained up to teach the new courses. And most of those teachers leading Oakland’s computer science classes are people of color, too, which Shorall says makes it easier for students from underrepresented communities to envision themselves entering tech jobs.
Sign up for our Recode Daily newsletter to get the top tech and business news stories delivered to your inbox.
In the second season of Netflix’s science-fiction anime Knights of Sidonia, there’s a scene where the main characters gather around a television to watch another sci-fi anime. In it, a man named Killy, clad entirely in black, uses an obscenely powerful gun to destroy a strange, masked robot. One of the viewers, a human / alien hybrid named Tsumugi, becomes visibly distressed. “What happens to Killy after this?” she worries. “It all depends on our support,” one of her friends answers.
For many viewers, it was a charming but not especially important scene. But for fans of Tsutomu Nihei — the creator of the manga Knights of Sidonia is based on — it was thrilling. Killy is actually the star of Nihei’s first published work, the dark and gritty manga Blame!. His appearance in Sidonia lasts less than two minutes, but it made a strong impression. “People were talking about this piece so much that we decided ‘Why don’t we do a movie?’” explains director Hiroyuki Seshita.
That film, called simply Blame!, releases on Netflix and in Japanese theaters on May 20th, 2017. For the most part, it’s being created by the same team, including Seshita, who returned to direct, and Nihei, who was involved with the movie from its earliest stages. The Blame! manga debuted 20 years ago, and it’s a story that has been updated and changed in many ways to better suit the new medium. “It’s a body of work that [Nihei] restructured and redesigned and reconceptualized,” says Seshita.
Blame! takes place in the distant future, where humanity largely struggles to survive in a perpetually growing city-structure filled with dangerous robots called safeguards. The sheer size of the city — no one actually knows how big it is — means small groups of people have evolved in isolation, rarely interacting with each other. Killy serves as a sort of science-fiction gunslinger, travelling the countless levels of the city in search of humans carrying a rare gene that can help control the robots and restore humanity’s place. It’s a dark, hard futuristic tale filled with sprawling industrial wastes and disturbing humanoid killing machines.
Though Knights of Sidonia and Blame! come from the same creator, and take place in the same, loosely connected universe, they take different approaches to storytelling. Sidonia is a character-heavy drama, with lots of humor and relationship-building to balance out the bleaker tale, where the last remnants of humanity are fighting a war against a seemingly invincible alien foe. Blame! is much starker and more mysterious. Killy rarely talks, and there’s little explicit exposition. Sometimes many pages go by without words, and supporting characters rarely stick around for long. Much of the storytelling is purely visual. Readers learn about the powerful machines by witnessing them in battle, and see how humanity lives by observing their squalid villages. It’s the kind of story that benefits from repeated readings to pick up all of the details.
This minimalist storytelling helps give the Blame! manga a distinct flavor, but it also makes it much less approachable compared to Nihei’s later works — and that’s something the team wanted to avoid with the film. “He knows that the original that he put together 20 years ago was a very complicated, intricate storyline that was aimed very much at anime and sci-fi fans,” Seshita says of Nihei. “Sometimes it was hard to follow. For the movie adaptation, what Mr. Nihei wished for was to make something that was more accessible to a wider audience. Which was exactly what we wanted if we were going to put a movie together. That was very important for us to move forward.”
The Blame! film gets around this by largely telling the story from the perspective of the human settlers of a small, isolated village. Desperate and running out of food, a group of townsfolk come across Killy after being chased by murderous safeguards while scrounging for supplies. Their stories intertwine when they learn of a factory that can potentially create both a large supply of food and a synthetic version of the gene Killy is searching for. Instead of breezing past these characters like in the manga, the film takes its time, giving the audience a chance to know and care for them.
It’s still nowhere near as charming or lighthearted as Knights of Sidonia. There isn’t much humor to the story. Killy is as quiet and solemn as ever, and there are plenty of long shots that show the impossibly huge scale of the city and its myriad levels of vast emptiness. But the new human characters help ground the story. They add an emotional weight as it becomes clear just how bad things have become, and what Killy is ultimately fighting to preserve.
Fans can still expect to see plenty of well-choreographed action sequences, unsettling robots scurrying to destroy humans, and far-out technologies like augmented humans and self-replicating food. And perhaps most important is the city itself, a strange place that’s in a state of both decay and growth, as the machines expand and rebuild it in their image. It’s every bit as stark and awe-inspiring in the film as in the manga. “Blame! wouldn’t be Blame! without that huge, massive structure,” says co-director and CG supervisor Tadahiro Yoshihira.
One likely key reason the Blame! film captures the essence of the manga is because Nihei was so involved in the creation process. “He was there from the beginning,” Yoshihira says. “He has a huge understanding of what we’re trying to create visually, so there have been a lot of creative discussions.” Seshita adds that “[Nihei] looked back at what he had created 20 years ago, and he basically told us what he wanted to depict now.”
The resulting film manages a very difficult and careful balancing act. On one hand, it’s a fantastic piece of fan service, giving long-time readers a chance to see the world of Blame! in a new way. But it’s also an ideal place to start for those unfamiliar with Nihei’s works, which also include another loosely connected cyberpunk manga series called Biomega. “The movie is more like a door that welcomes people into this world,” says Seshita.
Telegram released its latest 4.0 update this week, and one of the biggest features being added is video messages, which allows users to send video clips to each other at the push of a button. It’s similar to the app’s addition of audio messages — in fact, to access the video message feature, users simply tap the existing audio icon to switch to video mode.
Like audio messages, Telegram’s video messages are automatically downloaded and autoplayed by default, and feature a picture-in-picture mode within Telegram so you can do other things in the app while watching a video.
But along with private video messages, Telegram is looking to expand its public channels by adding video there as well, in a feature called Telescope. Telescope videos, like Telegram video messages, are clips up to a minute long, but they’ll be publicly available through a direct URL, even to people without Telegram accounts.
Both features should be available now as Telegram’s 4.0 update rolls out.
If there’s anything Bungie wants you to know about Destiny 2 — a sequel to the addictive, ambitious, and oftentimes frustrating online-only shooter — it’s that the game will actually respect your time. During the first gameplay reveal in Los Angeles yesterday, Bungie executives took the stage to outline the substantial quality of life improvements the sequel will introduce to make this happen.
From removing the need to load in and out of one area for different activities to letting players more easily group up with strangers, Bungie is going to great lengths to paint its new installment as a more thoughtful, well-meaning, and accessible video game. “We want Destiny to not feel like work and feel like it’s taking up your life,” says M.E. Chung, a game designer at Bungie who specializes on the series’ social dynamics. “We want it to fit into your life schedule.”
For many hardcore players, the original Destiny sometimes felt like a second job. On top of the grind of daily play and the ever-increasing amount of items to collect, Destiny was hobbled by befuddling design choices and maddening technical constraints. Players complained endlessly about not having enough space for all their gear and weapons, the lack of narrative and cinematic direction, and an almost Kafkaesque progression system. (Ask any longtime player and they can recount horror stories of repetitive materials farming and the nihilistic cruelty of the game’s random number generator.) Destiny spent its first year looking like an extended beta, as Bungie tweaked and changed it constantly in response to player feedback.
The end result was a title that reminded players that their time just might be better spent elsewhere, creating a constant tug-of-war battle between that nagging feeling and the satisfying, dopamine rush of another new piece of loot or a hard-fought victory. For those without a dedicated group of friends to play with, Destiny could feel like an alienating and isolated experience. With all the the window dressing of its social infrastructure stripped away, it was just a series of feedback loops and feeble reward systems laid bare — a pretty-looking gun game with nothing to say.
The original Destiny, which could cost upwards of $150 when you factor in expansions and other add-on content, was a fascinating attempt at trying to blend the benefits of a massively multiplayer online game with the nuts and bolts of a first-person shooter. The combination was both a wondrous success and spectacular failure on multiple levels. Even the most diehard players are quick to own up to their complicated relationship with the game. Yet while fans may have endured an emotional rollercoaster of a relationship with Destiny’s creators over the years, the franchise has come out on the other end intact.
Now, Bungie is ready for its second shot. The developer wants Destiny 2 to feel like a fresher, friendlier, and more social game, everything the original was meant to be. “We have a saying, ‘Making it easier to find the fun,’” says Chung. Bungie hopes this extends through every element of the game. The goal is to make Destiny 2 less of a slog designed only for the most dedicated of players, while also being more accessible to people who don’t have a large network of online friends to play with. “There are some people who are going to play every day — one of our lessons is that our players are always going to outpace us,” Chung admits. “But we don’t want players to fall behind.”
This new philosophy appears to have had the biggest impact on the game’s social elements. Destiny 2 will now feature a system called Guided Games, which will let less experienced players opt to play with more skilled members of an official clan. (These clans existed in a minor form in the previous game, through the company’s website, but never as a fully functioning in-game system.)
One of the biggest problems with the initial Destiny was how many of its most challenging and rewarding activities were restricted to premade teams, meaning you couldn’t go in solo and find other strangers to play with. Instead, players formed groups through third-party forums on Reddit, and scores of dedicated Destiny group-finding services popped up elsewhere. Now, players will be able to jump into group activities by selecting a clan that meets their criteria, whether it be a kid-friendly group, one that’s more competitive, one open to female players, or any number of other possibilities.
Chung says the original restrictions in Destiny were an intentional design decision, something Bungie felt was necessary given the toxicity of the game community. The developer didn’t feel comfortable putting strangers into high-stress situations, especially when it could be a young kid and a profanity-loving college student. “It’s funny. You hear about toxicity in lots of different games [today],” she says. “I played online games in my teens and it was just as toxic then,” just with less female players, she adds. Chung says that, as a female gamer, she learned to play without a mic and by using only ambiguous online handles that wouldn’t give away her gender.
It was this kind of toxicity, coupled with how wonky and unfriendly old-school PC server lists were, that moved console shooters toward matchmaking, Chung explains, where you could easily queue into a playlist and choose never to interact with others if you didn’t want to. But that “made you lose the ability to find the people you trust” to play with, she says. Bungie is now trying to find a better balance, after deciding that its initial approach in the first Destiny simply did not work.
Guided Games will hopefully be that system, letting players enjoy features like the six-person raids and three-person “nightfall” strikes by self-selecting a group to be paired with. Of course, the success of this will all depend on how willing clans are to help strangers and take their roles seriously, and whether the logistical and technical challenges involved don’t mean enduring long wait times to find strangers to play with. Bungie says there will be reward systems for clans to help incentivize positivity and openness, but the developer has yet to disclose details on how the system will work.
Chung says that, above all, Destiny 2 is aimed at nurturing the series’ tight-knit community. “We had a hunch about this game being about the community,” she says. Prior to release, Bungie had no idea the Destiny would inspire a 300,000-plus subreddit or real-life meet-ups or dedicated cosplay. That’s not to mention the scores of personal stories about friendships made, family bonds strengthened, and even an in-game marriage proposal. Now — three years later and with a legion of fans who play Destiny as devoutly as some of the longest-running MMOs — it seems clear that without its social fabric, the game would be just another flashy shooter.
Destiny’s entire purpose, Chung adds, is to create virtual obstacles for players to overcome together. “I describe that challenge as the fuel to memories between lifelong friends. I think a lot about games I’ve been playing, when you ask yourself, ‘Why am I doing this?’” she says, ruminating on the hours we spend obsessively collecting virtual goods and toiling away online to blow off steam. “We hope with Destiny they’re saying, ‘I’m spending time with my friends.’ Most people don’t regret the time they spend with their friends.”
Major League Baseball was a pioneer in streaming video and launched one of the first third-party apps on the iPhone. Its At Bat app is the most popular streaming service for sports, according to ComScore, and has been the top-grossing sports app in the App Store for a whopping nine years in a row. And starting in a few weeks, the service will be available for Google’s Daydream VR platform.
I got a chance to check the VR app out yesterday at MLB’s New York City headquarters. You can watch live games, which streamed in crisp, HD video without any interruptions. You can go full screen, which leaves you in a large open dome with a screen floating in front of you. Or you can keep the picture in between two screens, overflowing with stats from the game you’re watching and other games happening at the same time around the league.
The app takes advantage of VR to add one brand new feature. If you’re not watching in full screen, you see a home plate in front of you. A heat map shows where in the strike zone the current batter has the most success getting hits. And each pitch, after it’s thrown, appears as a glowing trajectory, so you can see exactly how the ball travelled, where it passed through the strike zone, or didn’t.
If you’re not in the mood for a live game, you can browse through videos of recent interviews, highlights, and newscasts. There is another section of the app that lets you watch 360 videos produced by the league. Unfortunately, the app doesn’t yet support live 360 video for watching active games.
The app is free to download. To access live video and radio streams from, users can choose from several tiers of monthly paid subscriptions. It launches to the public on June 1st, and while it starts on Daydream, MLB says it will eventually be available on every VR platform.
The latest installment of Ridley Scott’s space-horror franchise, Alien: Covenant, hits theaters today. The series is coming up on its 40th anniversary, and over the course of its lifetime, it’s taken some interesting turns — and some downright unfortunate ones.
The franchise is already in a strange place, with the latest films sitting somewhere between prequels and sequels. And as with any long-running franchise, numerous entries can led to a complicated timeline. With the latest film coming out, it’s a good time to look back at the scope of the series, where it started, and where it’s currently landed.
The franchise’s first film, Ridley Scott’s moody horror movie Alien, hit theaters in 1979, to widespread acclaim. James Cameron followed it up almost a decade later with 1986’s Aliens, which brought back Alien’s surviving protagonist, Ripley (Sigourney Weaver), and took the series in a more action-packed direction.
The 1992 sequel Alien 3 was directed by David Fincher, who went on to direct Seven, The Social Network, and Netflix’s House of Cards. Citing studio interference with the production, he essentially disowned it. In 2003, producer Charles de Lauzirika completely recut the film, inclining it toward Fincher’s original vision. The “Assembly Cut” was received much better than the original.
The next film to hit theaters was Alien: Resurrection in 1997. Directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet (Amélie), it jumps centuries into the future and features a clone of Ripley, and people who want to use an alien queen from her body for military purposes.
There have been a fair number of Alien spinoffs over the years. Two Alien Vs. Predator movies crossbred this franchise with the similarly long-running science-fiction horror series that began with 1987’s Predator. A planned third AVP film would have led right into Alien, but it never materialized. There have also been extensive runs of comics and video games, both standalone Alien stories and Alien Vs. Predator stories. And more than a dozen novels have further expanded the Alien universe. But the dual core of the story has always been Alien and Aliens, the two feature films that helped define modern cinematic science-fiction horror.
The film series was pretty straightforward before Ridley Scott’s 2012 film Prometheus. That movie confused fans, because Scott conceived it as a film that came out of Alien’s “DNA,” but told its own standalone story. Still, it’s so close to Alien in the story details that fans couldn’t stop speculating about whether it was actually part of the Alien universe. Regardless, the film is set before the events of Alien. And Alien: Covenant works as a sequel to Prometheus, but also moves closer to setting up the original Alien.
The film series could have been more confusing: Fresh off Chappie, director Neill Blomkamp posted concept art for a fifth Alien film that was reportedly his next project. That film would have essentially ignored Alien 3 and Alien: Resurrection in an attempt to reboot the post-Aliens side of the franchise. However, with Ridley Scott’s Prometheus sequel in the works, Fox put the project on hold, and Ridley Scott basically said it’s not going to happen at all.
Chronologically, Prometheus begins in a couple of places. There’s an alien Engineer in the beginning of the film, seeding a new world, which might be Earth in the distant past, or might just suggest how the Engineers created humanity. In 2089, archaeologists Elizabeth Shaw and Charles Holloway dig up some evidence of humanity’s origins. And the actual Prometheus mission to find the Engineers takes place in 2093. Alien: Covenant takes place more than a decade after Prometheus, in 2104. A recent prologue links the events of the two films and fills in some of the gap, but not all of it.
From there, we get into the original films: Alien takes place two decades after Covenant in 2122, while Ripley wakes up from stasis 57 years later in Aliens. Alien 3 is set immediately after Aliens. Finally, Alien: Resurrection makes a huge jump to 2386.
There’s a two-decade gap between Alien: Covenant and Alien, and while this new film provides a direct line of action from Prometheus to Alien, it doesn’t entirely lead up to that original film. Scott has ambitious plans for the future of the Alien franchise: he says Alien: Covenant is “one of three sequels to Prometheus that will take the saga to the ‘back entrance’” of the original film.
He’s also said he can keep this story going for another six films. And he told IGN that he’s writing the next film now, and that he’s aiming to have it in production within the next 14 months. It’s unclear what that film will be about just yet. Back in March, Scott referred to a film called Alien: Awakening that might take place between Prometheus and Covenant, but he’s also referred to Blomkamp’s canceled film as Awakening.
Either way, it seems as though Scott is now looking to set up the original Alien with these new films, rather than mess with the post-Aliens era.
The Alien franchise seems to be split into two big arcs right now. Prometheus, for better or worse, helps set up the origins of Alien’s titular creature, while Alien: Covenant continues that arc. The other big arc is Ripley’s story, which began in Alien and continued through Alien: Resurrection. Given the drama surrounding the status of Neill Blomkamp’s canceled film, Scott and Fox seem a bit more keen on focusing on the  franchise’s origins, rather than resurrecting Ripley for another outing.
This feels like a bit of an unfortunate choice, for two reasons: Blomkamp’s script was reportedly strong, but it also would have helped reboot the end of Ripley’s story. Alien 3 and Alien: Resurrection have both been widely condemned for the directions that they took the franchise: Joss Whedon, who wrote the original screenplay, said the filmmakers “did everything wrong that they could possibly do.”
The images of Blomkamp’s concept included Ripley and Hicks post-Aliens, an Engineer’s ship in a cargo bay, and of course, the xenomorphs themselves. It stands to reason that the film would have continued with some of the themes explored in Aliens, with the inimical Weyland-Yutani Corporation continuing to explore the potential of using the aliens as weapons. Most importantly, Sigourney Weaver said the film would give her character a satisfying ending. It was also meant to let Fox correct mistakes made in the previous sequels.
That attention is being spent right now on the origins of Alien, rather than going back to polish Ripley’s story. This could be down to simple practical reasons: it would be a marketing nightmare to introduce a new film on the heels of Alien: Covenant that’s really a sequel to Aliens. While standalone, out-of-continuity films are starting to be part of franchises, thanks to the success of Star Wars: Rogue One, it’s still a pretty newfangled concept from a franchise that’s much bigger than Alien. Presumably, in this sequel-driven industry, we’ll eventually see some sort of reboot or reimagining that either finishes out Ripley’s story, or takes the franchise in a different direction post-Aliens.
As Immigration and Customs Enforcement steps up its deportation efforts, the agency is turning to a controversial surveillance device. According to a report by The Detroit News, local agents recently used a cell-site simulator (also known as a Stingray) to locate a Salvadorean restaurant worker, tracing his cell-phone signal to a home in the Detroit metro area. It’s one of the first cases of ICE using Stingrays under the Trump administration, raising new questions about the federal use of the device for civil immigration enforcement.
Typically used to locate devices tied to a specific phone number, cell-site simulators have been the subject of significant controversy in recent years. The devices work by mimicking the signal of a cell tower, then collecting information from every device that attempts to connect. As a result, they can disrupt cell service in areas where they are used, and often collect vast amounts of information from non-targeted phones.
Use of the devices is widespread within law enforcement, but remained secret for many years. The devices were only made public after a protracted legal appeal resulting from a fraud case. Among other projects, the US Marshals service deployed the devices from small, low-flying planes as a way of locating a single fugitive in a dense urban area.
The Department of Homeland Security (which includes ICE) operates at least 124 Stingray devices, according to a congressional report last year. In 2015, DHS issued an agency-wide policy requiring a search warrant to deploy the devices.
ICE has arrested 41,300 people for deportation since Trump’s inauguration, according to recently released statistics. More than 10,000 of those people had no criminal conviction, a sign of the agency’s new focus on available targets rather than criminal offenders. Despite the surge of arrests, deportations were actually down compared with the same period last year as a result of the growing backlog in immigration courts.
When Ridley Scott returned to the Alien franchise with 2012’s Prometheus, one of the primary criticisms was that the film wasn’t really, well, Alien-esque. Rather than build upon the sci-fi / horror formula he had created in 1979, Scott went in a different direction with a film that was much more concerned with questions about the origins of humanity and our place in the universe. It was an intentional shift, with Scott even saying at the time that the film shouldn’t be taken as a direct prequel to his previous work, but that didn’t do much to curb audience expectations.
For his new sequel to Prometheus, Scott has made the decision to go back to his roots. From the title to the marketing, Alien: Covenant has been framed as a direct descendent of the original, with one thing in mind above all others: scaring the hell out of the audience. The visceral footage previewed at SXSW earlier this year only seemed to underscore the idea that this was going to be a brutal, gory Alien, much closer to the film that fans wanted five years ago than the ponderous, often convoluted story they got.
For long stretches Alien: Covenant delivers on that promise. It’s a film full of terrifying, heart-pounding terror, on par with some of the best work in Scott’s career. But it’s also a movie stuck between modes, mixing that horror with the same pseudo-intellectual pondering that ground things to a halt last time. The result is a film that is a welcome improvement over Prometheus, but perhaps not the home run that sci-fi and horror fans might have been hoping for.
Warning: mild spoilers for Alien: Covenant to follow.
The film picks up 10 years after the events of Prometheus, with the ship Covenant making a years-long journey through space. With 2,000 colonists in cryosleep and bevy of human embryos on board, its mission is to reach the distant planet Origae-6 and set up a new outpost, spreading humanity’s reach across the galaxy. Monitoring the ship during the trip is Walter (Michael Fassbender), an upgraded model of the synthetic human Fassbender played in the previous film. A wave of energy from a nearby star ends up assaulting the ship, waking the crew up from their sleep pods and killing the ship’s captain (James Franco, who is in the film for no more than a single shot before being burned alive).
Stepping into the leadership vacuum is Oram (Billy Crudup), and when the crew receives a transmission from a nearby planet that might be an even better fit for their colonization mission, he directs the Covenant to the planet to investigate. Daniels (Katherine Waterston), the dead captain’s wife, argues against it, but is ultimately overruled. When the Covenant crew lands on the new planet, they find an incredibly Earth-like environment, but as they start to explore they discover a world of horrors they could never have anticipated.
From the early moments of Covenant, it’s obvious that Scott and his collaborators want this movie to feel like an Alien film. Themes from original composer Jerry Goldsmith’s score surface early on, and the entire pacing of the film feels like a nod to what has come before. (One sequence toward the end of the film even plays like a seven-minute supercut of the original.) Meeting the crew of the Covenant only strengthens that connection. Characters like the pilot Tennessee (Danny McBride), and his no-nonsense wife, Faris (Amy Seimetz) are human and relatable, calling back to the “truckers in space” vibe that made the original Alien such a novel break from sci-fi convention in the first place.
When it comes time for the monsters to reveal themselves and wreak havoc, however, Scott doesn’t just prove that he’s still able to call upon the horror sensibilities that served him before. He takes the opportunity to show off how much he’s learned in the past 38 years, turning up the tension and squirm-in-your-seat anxiety to the point where it’s nearly unbearable at times. One of the posters for Alien: Covenant features just the face of the infamous xenomorph along with the word “run,” and that juxtaposition perfectly encapsulates the film’s best moments. When it’s humming, Alien: Covenant isn’t just a return to sci-fi horror. It’s quite nearly the perfect sequel, hitting every hoped-for franchise beat effortlessly. In a word, it is terrifying.
If only the rest of the film was able to execute its objectives with such flair. Scott may be interested in horror, but he is also interested in picking up the larger thematic questions he toyed with in Prometheus — and once again, they stop the film dead in its tracks. It’s not that these ideas aren’t welcome. Alien: Covenant has some legitimately fascinating notions about artificial intelligence, and how humanity’s search to know things beyond our grasp could ultimately prove to be our undoing. These concepts toy with the Alien mythology, upending it and giving it a spin, to the point where everything audiences have known since 1979 is suddenly called into question. But it often feels like there are two different movies spliced together, resulting in an odd and awkward mix of tones, with each undermining the other.
Perhaps even more frustrating is that Alien: Covenant, in its desire to take things in a different direction, actually makes it fundamentally unclear how these first two films lead to the original Alien in the first place. I’m not going to go into spoilers on this particular point, but Prometheus ended with Noomi Rapace’s Elizabeth Shaw and Michael Fassbender’s David heading off in a ship from the intergalactic Engineers. While the pieces didn’t exactly line up, it did allow audiences to at least draw some general conclusions as to how those events would lead to Ellen Ripley and the crew of the Nostromo discovering their alien-infested vessel on LV-426. By tweaking the mythology, Alien: Covenant sidelines those ideas entirely. It causes the film to end on a note of frustration, like the story it’s telling is inherently incomplete. (No doubt future sequels, one of which Scott has said is already written, will connect the dots, but that doesn’t do much for audiences buying tickets for Covenant.)
When compared to Prometheus, there is no doubt that Alien: Covenant is a massive improvement. The scares are some of the best the entire series has to offer, and on that criteria alone it can probably be considered a success. But there’s no escaping the fact that as a standalone film, Covenant is wanting, neither truly making its own thematic points nor carving out its own unique place in the legacy of the franchise. It’s an expanded universe movie, one with a meaning that can only be determined when viewed alongside all other installments — including those yet to be made.
The problem is that the Alien franchise started in an age where sequels could be complete films unto themselves — in fact, James Cameron’s Aliens is considered by many to be one of the best sequels ever made. That is simply not the same kind of cinematic landscape we find ourselves in today, so perhaps something like Alien: Covenant is the best we can hope for. That said, I’d like to think that Scott has one more truly great Alien movie left in him somewhere. Maybe we’ll get it next time.

This review originally appeared on May 6, 2017 to coincide with the film’s review embargo. It has been republished to coincide with the film's wide theatrical opening.
At first glance, Panasonic’s latest Toughbook — the Toughbook 33 — looks a lot like every other Toughbook model out there. Rugged exterior, covered ports, bulky plastic design clearly meant more for durability than aesthetics.
But the most impressive thing about the Toughbook isn’t that it’s as close to indestructible as a laptop can be, but rather that in addition to being incredibly durable, it’s also still got specs that are just as good as any other high-end laptop on the market.
The Toughbook 33 is a 2-in-1 convertible, with a completely detachable 12-inch tablet featuring a 4K touchscreen offering some unique software features to allow it to function in rain or while wearing gloves. Panasonic is selling the Toughbook 33 in both Intel Core i5 and Core i7 variants — the latest Kaby Lake models if you’re willing to run Windows 10, and Skylake chips if you still need to run Windows 7 (which many Toughbook customers do for backwards compatibility purposes.) Windows 10 users will be able to use Windows Hello using the integrated camera, which also has IR for use in darker situations. RAM is either 8GB and 16GB, while storage is a choice between a 256GB or 512GB SSD. Also available is optional on-board LTE, with support for Verizon, AT&T, or Sprint. Battery life is rated for 10 hours using the standard batteries, or up to 20 hours using the optional long life batteries. The Toughbook 33 uses two batteries at a time, meaning that you can also hot-swap them without shutting down the laptop for even further battery life. The biggest downside here is the size — at 6.1 pounds, it’s not exactly the lightest laptop around (for reference, at 3.02 pounds, a 13-inch MacBook Pro weights less than half of that.)
Of course, the Toughbook 33 is still a Toughbook, which means that it’s tested to survive a wide range of conditions. According to Panasonic, the Toughbook 33 is designed to meet the military grade MIL-STD-810G specification (which tests against an impressive list of scenarios including “drop, shock, vibration, rain, dust, sand, altitude, freeze/thaw, high/low temperature, temperature shock, solar radiation, salt fog, humidity, [and] explosive atmosphere.”), the MIL-STD-461 specification for electromagnetic compatibility, and is IP65 certified against dust and water.
The Toughbook 33 (and the Toughbook line in general) is designed more for police officers, firefighters, EMS technicans, and other demanding in-the-field jobs that need that kind of durability than it is for the average consumer, so you won’t be able to buy one directly from Panasonic, although apparently there will be resellers that will offer the device if you’d really like to buy one. It’s also not particularly cheap — while Panasonic is offering a wide variety of configurations based on specific needs and use cases, the Toughbook 33 starts at $3,649.
Still, even though it’s decidedly not meant for the average consumer, I can’t help but want one anyway. A Windows 10 laptop with the latest Intel hardware and a 4K screen that can get up to 20 hours of battery life and has LTE connectivity? Why aren’t there consumer laptops like that?

Ah, Friday! The most wonderful day of the week, for today we escape our work prisons to sit on our couches and avoid showering for the next two days. If you’re flipping through your Netflix queue looking for some new show to binge, look no further than the CW’s Riverdale. The first season, an easy-to-digest 13-episode drama, just joined the streaming service.
In case you’ve missed out on what’s so far been a small-scale but genuine cultural phenomenon: Riverdale is a modern-day adaptation of the Archie comics. Rather than facing off against the Predator or hanging out with the cast of Glee, in Riverdale, Archie, Betty, Jughead, and Veronica return to more typical teen problems: dating, school, family problems, and murder. The first season revolves around the mysterious death of Jason Blossom, a local high-school student, football player, and heir to a sizable family legacy. If you’ve never read an Archie comic in your life, don’t worry. Riverdale likes to wink playfully at its source material with characters’ clothes or food preferences, but it doesn’t require familiarity to enjoy.

The only thing to know about Riverdale before you get started is that it’s ri-dic-ulous. None of the characters, kids or parents, makes rational choices. Everyone somehow knows each other, and everyone’s fodder for eager gossip. Characters regurgitate pop-culture references so rapidly that they start to sound like they’ve swallowed a TV Guide dusted with cocaine. “I’m already the Blue Jasmine of Riverdale High,” a New York City expat declares dramatically. Archie’s love of music and his signature red hair earns him the burn “Justin Gingerlake.” Betty is frequently compared to the Mad Men character of the same name. And in an especially cringey moment, a character seductively refers to himself as being “too fast, too furious.” Bro.
The kids in Riverdale act like a modern Scooby Doo gang, and the show handles their antics with the same wacky hand. One episode balances part of the cast preparing for a talent show, while the rest investigate a murder. Another sees the squad rushing into a local criminal hangout, tough-guy style, in search of answers. The place looks like the stereotype of “biker bar from the 1990s,” but it’s also inexplicably filled with cages full of live snakes. Sure, the criminal gang that occupies the place is called the Southside Serpents, but why is one gang function “corner the local market on exotic pets”? Is someone in charge of the snakes’ nutritional needs? I don’t think bar fumes and all that yelling are good for those snakes.
But if I had to describe the show in just a few words, I’d cheat and choose just these four: the “I’m weird” meme. Parsed out, the joke is about Jughead, played by Cole Sprouse, launching into a breathy monologue about how he’s weird. He’s a weirdo. Have you ever seen him without his hat? That’s weird.
The meme captures the show’s spirit perfectly. That speech is absolutely trying too hard, but it also acts as a perfect parody of what a teen might perceive as being a deep commentary on themselves. It’s over-the-top while also being sort of endearing, probably because Cole Sprouse has exactly the sort of beautiful, sad TV presence that guarantees he’ll be beloved by fans.
That’s Riverdale in a nutshell: dramatic, campy but fun, and full of very good-looking people. It parodies the real world without actually recreating it, like a snow globe of your favorite city. It’s a warm, safe show that even in its most intense episode, can still end with Archie and his pals crowding around milkshakes at the diner.
Back in November, Google released artificial intelligence experiment that asks you to draw a random object and see if the neural network can identify your doodle. Quick, Draw! was eventually turned into a tool that transformed drawings into clip art based on the best results it got, helping people add a visual icon to their work without requiring any particular artistic talent.
Alongside Google I/O this week, Google has now released the data it received from Quick, Draw! to show you how 15 million people drew the same set of objects. It’s a fascinating look at how humans interpret a random item, from monkeys to parachutes to phones.
Take a look at the frog one, for example. When I tried playing around with the AI experiment last fall, this is what I came up with.
someone at google never heard of keropi https://t.co/rPyiTyYZDU
I wasn’t very confident in my frog (croak) so I felt that adding “Ribbit” to the drawing might provide context, even if the AI might not be able to read. It turns out, I wasn’t the only person who did this (though in general, most people didn’t. After all, you only had 20 seconds to draw each item.)
More obscure drawing cues, like yoga, turned out a lot of interesting interpretations.
Face is a neat one too -- I’d guess that depending on the artist, most of these drawings were interpreted as a self portrait. Some faces had long hair, some had big eyes, some had glasses, and others just looked like a plain emoji.
The result for dragon is one of my favorites. While you can argue that most people see frog in mostly the same way, dragon produced a variety of results — from fire-breathing to horned.
Google said it has open sourced all the submissions so developers can use the data set for whatever visual-based AI they might be working on.
With thousands of drawings to browse through, it’s pretty easy to lose yourself clicking around the Quick, Draw! datasets. So if you were planning to be productive this Friday, maybe come back to this website after you get your work done.
Another dwarf planet at the edge of the Solar System has been found to have a small companion moon. The world, named 2007 OR10, is the third largest dwarf planet that we know about — around 955 miles wide. The discovery was made possible by three NASA space telescopes, and it means we have found moons around practically every large dwarf planet more than 600 miles across in our cosmic neighborhood.
Astronomers started to think 2007 OR10 might have a moon after NASA’s Kepler Space Telescope showed that the dwarf planet was rotating more slowly than usual. Typically, objects in the Kuiper Belt — the large cloud of icy bodies beyond Neptune where this dwarf planet resides — take less than 24 hours to rotate. But Kepler found that 2007 OR10 took 45 hours to complete one rotation, indicating that a moon might be tugging on it and slowing down its spin.
The astronomers then turned to archive images of the Hubble Space Telescope. Sure enough, the telescope’s Wide Field Camera 3 had picked up the moon twice during two different observation runs in 2009 and 2010. “The initial investigator missed the moon in the Hubble images because it is very faint,” Csaba Kiss, an astronomer at Konkoly Observatory in Budapest, Hungary said in a statement. Kiss is the lead author on a paper detailing the moon’s discovery in The Astrophysical Journal Letters. The team then used past heat measurements of 2007 OR10, taken by the Herschel Space Observatory, to estimate how big the moon might be — pinning it down to somewhere between 150 miles to 250 miles in diameter.
The Hubble images definitely show that the moon is gravitationally bound to 2007 OR10, but the astronomers weren’t able to figure out what kind of orbit the tiny satellite takes around the dwarf planet. So the explanation for the slow spin of 2007 OR10 is still unresolved. "Ironically, because we don't know the orbit, the link between the satellite and the slow rotation rate is unclear," study co-author John Stansberry, an astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore, said in a statement.
Still it means that moons are seemingly abundant around dwarf planets at the Solar System’s edge. Last year, a moon was found around the distant dwarf planet Makemake. So now, practically all of the largest dwarf planets we know about, except for one named Sedna, have moons. And that gives us a bit more clues about how these space rocks formed. It’s possible that these moons are the results of distant bodies colliding at just the right speeds when the Solar System was being born 4.6 billion years ago. "If there were frequent collisions, then it was quite easy to form these satellites,” says Kiss.
Medium’s subscription service didn’t start off with all that many (any, really) features, but the company has just added a big one: audio recordings of some of the site’s top stories.
All of the audio stories will be “professionally recorded,” Medium says, and won’t be made using synthesized voices, like Siri. Every subscriber-exclusive story will get an audio version and “other top stories” picked by Medium editors will get recorded as well. At launch, there are a little over 50 articles with an audio option.
The recordings add a much more tangible benefit for Medium subscribers and could help the company tap into the audience that’s long relied on Audible for something to listen to in the car. On top of audio recordings, Medium has published several dozen subscriber-exclusive stories in the past two months. Subscribers are also able to save stories for offline reading in the Medium app.
Medium tells VentureBeat that it’s considering allowing “writers and publishers to upload their own narrations” and that it expects to “experiment with adding different types of audio content” in the coming months.
Evolutionary biology tells us this story: everything evolved to make us better at reproducing. Everything has a function — and decoration is no exception. The peacock’s elaborate tail seems useless, but actually it tells us how genetically superior the bird must be if it can survive even with that unwieldy mass of feathers.
Wrong, says Yale University ornithologist Richard Prum. In his new book, The Evolution of Beauty, Prum argues instead that natural selection makes sense in a lot of contexts, but when it comes to desire and attraction, many selections are simply arbitrary. It’s not about what makes the animals fly better or run faster, it’s about what the animal itself subjectively enjoys. It’s what makes the animal happy.
The Verge spoke to Prum about his theory of beauty, attractive birds that have evolved to be worse at flying, and the implications of his theory for humans.
The interview has been lightly edited and condensed for clarity.
You push against the idea that every feature evolved to be adaptive, and instead say that sometimes it’s arbitrary and based on what the animal itself likes. One example you give is of the club-winged manakin,  a bird that actually evolved to become cooler but less fit.  What does that mean, exactly? And how did it happen?
The club-winged manakin is evolving in a way that makes it worse at flying. The male club-winged manakin does this intricate dance with its wings to attract females. But in order to do that dance, it’s evolved so that it’s wing bones aren’t as efficient as the hollow ones we see in other birds.
We discovered from data that the male and female wing bones are both transformed. They’re all extremely robust and wide and distinct. The male with his weird wings at least gets the ability to sing interesting songs, but the female can never benefit from having these worse wing bones because she doesn’t do the dance. The female who has these weird bones never sings. So how could this happen if all evolution was about making you better and better?
I argue that’s an indication that sexual selection can produce a kind of decadence, in which individuals become worse at their survival even as they’re more pleasing to each other.
How could this happen? Is this the sort of process that leads to extinction?
How could the female make herself worse? This can happen because the cost of her mate choice are deferred to her sons and daughters. So by choosing the male that she likes that makes the cool wing-songs with his nifty wing-feathers, she gets sons that are going to be also attractive, but daughters with wing bones that are less equipped to fly. The trade-off is that her daughters may be worse at survival, but her sons will be better at sexual attraction. So that means that her decadent choices would evolve and continue, even though she’s making her offspring less capable.
Yes, theoretically, that can lead to extinction. This process can be halted, but only halted when there are direct costs to her own survival and fecundity, like if she suddenly doesn’t live as long, or can’t find a mate at all. Then there would be sudden natural selection against preference and that could halt the process.
Can you go into more detail about the difference between adaptive selection, or the idea that every trait can be explained by how it helps you survive, versus the theory of aesthetic selection that you prefer, which says that some things just evolved arbitrarily because animals liked them?
So, there are two theories: the adaptive one says that ornaments like a peacock’s tail and preferences for it evolved because they provide objectively better mating opportunities. The peacock’s useless tail evolved because it tells you that the peacock must be really genetically healthy if it can have that handicap and still stay alive. This suggests that ornaments and beauty tell you about the genetic quality of the organism.
Aesthetic selection says that these preferences co-evolve because of the pleasure they provide. It argues that the animal’s subjective experience — not just external forces — can drive pleasure and can drive the evolution of ornament all by itself. So a peacock can evolve to have a big tail because other peacocks like it, not because it signals that it’s objectively better in some genetic sense. But this isn’t what most of my colleagues in evolutionary biology think.
You argue that animals can evolve traits because it brings them pleasure, not because it’s directly adaptive. But can’t pleasure be adaptive in itself? Sexual pleasure, for instance, makes people want to have sex more, which would probably create more children.
That’s another way of explaining away pleasure. Adaptationism doesn’t explain why, for example, some species require so much stimulation in order to feel enough pleasure. If it was merely about reproduction, you wouldn’t need these elaborate repertoires and mating dances. Why is it that a bird of paradise can sit for three hours at a single male display site and somehow still be trying to decide? Why do they need so much stimulus if pleasure was only a mechanism to get you to choose and procreate?
I think evolutionary biology has a “pleasure problem” going all the way back to the Victorians who were very unsettled to the idea that animals, including people, might be motivated by pleasure. It might be anxiety about the power of passion, and so we’ve been going on a long time ignoring subjective experience.
Some traits that we think of as attractive are biologically useful, right? Aren’t wide hips actually useful for giving birth to children? You write that in the beginning these traits served an evolutionary purpose, but then became “unhinged.” What does that mean?
What happens is that desire for the trait itself becomes its own force, divorced from the original point of the trait. In women, yes, wide-set hips are associated with fertility and the capacity to birth children. That’s the evolutionary origin. But now we find wide hips attractive regardless of whether it’s true that they correlate to being better at giving birth. We like it for its own sake.
Or look at the preference for thinness. Supposedly we’re attracted to thinness because some people think that thinness means health, but there are lots of unhealthy thin people. And if suddenly someone told us that thinness had nothing to do with health, many would probably still be attracted to it. We are often attracted to arbitrary things that don’t tell us much about underlying genetic quality. Just look at the cultural diversity of opinions about things that are supposed to be “universal” like breast size or hip size or waist-hip ratio. Most of that literature is the result of getting undergraduate males to look at computerized women on computer screens and then claim that it’s about something universal about human nature.
Throughout the book, you mention various “genetic indicator” studies that we’ve bought into that have been disproved — like you said that there’s little proof that women with a certain waist-hip ratio are actually more fertile or genetically better. Are there studies in this area that you think are robust?
I think the whole field is poorly supported. I don’t think there are any good examples of honest indicator traits in human sexual women. The problem is that evolutionary psychology as a discipline is filled with people whose intellectual program is merely to propagate the idea that adaptation explains human biology. It’s not dedicated to describing the evolutionary history of people and its actual complexity and as a result, it’s really bad science and a lot of it isn’t even science.
What was your goal in writing the book?
By reframing the biology of sex in terms of the subjective experience of individuals, I want to reframe in some sense the way in which we think about our own sexualities. People today, especially adolescents, are growing up in a culture in which these ideas have become so popular that they see each one of their individual flaws or variations as somehow an honest indicator of their true, objective quality. This is a tragedy because I think it affects how people think about themselves, that other people are actually in some way objectively genetically better than they are. That leads to anorexia, that leads to plastic surgery, it leads to all sorts of unpleasantness.
What I would really love is for people to understand that sexual development is not just the process of becoming a kind of sexual object. It’s the process of self-discovery of your own sexual subjectivity, discovering what it is that you want and like and desire and realizing not only that you have the right and the obligation to discover that for yourself, but that that has been a force in the evolution and the origin of the human species and that in doing that you are being some way ultimately human.

Ford today is releasing a software update to its model-year 2016 vehicles with SYNC 3 so that the entire fleet will be able to use Android Auto and Apple CarPlay. Which is awesome news, because I still haven’t forgiven SYNC 3 for butchering Nilay’s name.
You can obtain the update in three ways: by downloading over the air for Wi-Fi-connected vehicles, by bringing your car to a Ford dealership, or by downloading the update to a USB drive then manually plugging into the car. To DIY the update, you’ll need to download the right version for your car from Ford’s owner support website. Android Auto is supported for smartphones running Android 5.0 and higher, while CarPlay is compatible with iPhone 5 or later, updated to iOS 7.1 or higher.
The update today comes after carmakers Audi and Volvo announced that they will be using Android as the main operating system for their upcoming cars. Although today’s news means Ford now offers Android Auto as an option in more of its vehicles, it doesn’t seem to want to replace SYNC 3 with Android entirely — after all, it recently hired 400 BlackBerry engineers to work on its connected car initiative. Whether that’s the right move remains to be seen, as the first car with a traditional mobile OS as the main system won’t be on the market for at least another year or two.
Netflix’s first Cannes Film Festival kicked off with a rocky start last night, when audiences at Bong Joon-ho’s Okja premiere booed the Netflix title card.
Reports from the festival say the first 10 minutes of the film were also played in the wrong aspect ratio, leading to more booing. The screening was started again from the beginning with the correct ratio, and Netflix’s title card was booed again — louder, according to The Hollywood Reporter’s Tatiana Siegel. Amazon’s title card was also reportedly booed, by a small group at an early morning press screening of Todd Haynes’ Wonderstruck.
OKJA starts, huge boos at Netflix logo. Then film plays in wrong aspect ratio and Grand Lumiere almost rioted. movie stopped. #Cannes2017
The festival released a statement shortly after, apologizing for the technical problems:
A propos de la projection de #Okja  // About Okja's screening #Cannes2017 pic.twitter.com/9tqieHcrXu
The incident follows weeks of snide back-and-forth between Netflix, the Cannes Film Festival, and the National Federation of French Cinemas, over the question of whether releasing movies primarily on streaming platforms somehow delegitimizes their standing as cinematic works. Okja is set for a limited theatrical release in the United States and the UK, and a wide release in South Korea, but it won’t be released in French theaters at all, due to French law that films be kept off streaming platforms for 36 months after their theatrical release.
Netflix briefly considered a limited release in France starting June 28th, when Okja premieres worldwide on the streaming service, but the conversation ended abruptly. Shortly after, Cannes announced that only films with scheduled theatrical releases in France would be considered for competition in the festival starting next year.
Early impressions of Okja, which follows a young girl (Ahn Seo-hyun) struggling to protect an adorable pet monster, were mostly positive, as several critics tweeted praise for its themes, creativity, and the performance of Jake Gyllenhaal:
OKJA: Big pig and big ideas, but the performances are even bigger, topped by a Jake Gyllenhaal role so flamboyant it can be seen from space
Okja =   So many great little moments. So many great little Gyllenhaal moments. I love Bong's wacky summer camp for bored Hollywood actors
My heart bleeds for #Okja. Great film, perfect creature feature, funny, honest /w attitude. Exactly what cinema needs...oh wait. #Cannes17
OKJA: like ET on crack. wild & wildly uneven, but always soulful. A+ cast, 1 legendary chase, everything you want AT the movies #Cannes2017
At a press conference following the screening, Tilda Swinton was asked about the festival’s likely reluctance to award Okja the Palme d’Or, and responded: “[T]he truth is we didn’t come here for prizes. We came here to show this film to the Cannes Film Festival and to people who have gathered here from all over the world... I think it’s an enormous and interesting conversation that is beginning, but the truth is if you want  to know what I really think? I think, as in many matters, there is room for everybody.”
Bong also responded to the ongoing controversy, as well as comments made earlier in the week by Spanish director Pedro Almodovar, defending Netflix as a supporter of creative filmmaking: “Giving such a budget to a director isn’t very common and i had total liberty. It was a wonderful experience. I’m saying that in terms of the shooting and the editing. They never intervened. They respected me from the beginning until the end. Quite frankly they gave me total freedom and liberty.”
Netflix’s second entry at the festival, Noah Baumbach’s The Meyerowitz Stories, premieres Sunday.
Update 8:35 AM ET: Updated to include report that an Amazon film was also booed.
When Google said that not sharing photographs of your friends made you “kind of a terrible person” at this year’s I/O keynote, I bristled. The idea that its new Google Photos app would automatically suggest I share pictures with specific people sounded dystopian, especially because so much of the keynote seemed geared toward getting Google’s AI systems to help maintain relationships. Want to answer an email without even thinking about it? Inbox’s suggested responses are rolling out all over Gmail. Has a special moment with somebody slipped your mind? Google might organize photos from it into a book and suggest you have it printed.
Google is far from the first company to do this; Facebook suggests pictures to share and reminds you of friends’ birthdays all the time, for example. It’s easy to describe these features as creepy false intimacy, or say that they’re making us socially lazy, relieving us of the burden of paying attention to people. But the more I’ve thought about it, the more I’ve decided that I’m all right with an AI helping manage my connections with other people — because otherwise, a lot of those connections wouldn’t exist at all.
I don’t know if I’m a terrible person per se, but I may be the world’s worst relative. I have an extended network of aunts, uncles, cousins, and family friends that I would probably like but don’t know very well, and almost never see face-to-face. They’re the kind of relationships that some people I know maintain with family newsletters, emailed photos, and holiday cards. But I have never figured out how to handle any of these things.
I grew up convinced that people wrote holiday greetings and thank-you notes out of heartfelt desire, and that each one had to reflect a unique and personal connection. I may no longer think this, but I’m still afraid that I seem obviously insincere. I’ll start writing a message, realize I haven’t spoken to the recipient in years and have no idea what’s happening in their life, ramble some incoherent pleasantries, put the pen down to rethink my strategy, and find the card on a dusty bookcase six months later.
But several years ago, I stumbled across online conversations around emotional labor: the everyday work of maintaining human relationships. It’s something that people often think of as a natural instinct, especially a feminine one, and consequently don’t consider real work. In fact, the idea that this is work might seem insulting. But to me, it’s been a huge relief. If I can acknowledge that something is a skilled task and not a measure of my humanity, I don’t have to think I’m a terrible person for finding it difficult, whatever Google says.
It also makes using tools to compensate feel a lot more palatable. I don’t use Facebook’s automatic birthday reminders to keep track of people whose birthdays I actually celebrate, for example, but they’re a great sort of amnesty. I can talk to somebody without having to apologize for not doing so earlier, pretending our relationship is closer than it is, or appearing to put in the kind of investment that will make them feel guilty for not getting in touch. With something like Google Photos, I’d be happy to have simple family albums that don’t feel like they were painstakingly curated for me — or having it intelligently suggest things to add myself.
I still hate suggested email responses, because it feels like my inbox is impersonating me. I’ve got close relationships where I do want every interaction to feel organic. And there are larger privacy questions about a company like Google understanding my life better than I do.
But philosophically, I’m okay with an AI figuring out where my weak ties are and giving me a clear and explicit way to strengthen them — which is something Google doesn’t do much of yet, but feels like an obvious goal. I’ve had decades to figure out how to maintain a social network, and I’ve almost completely failed at it. If I have a choice between leaning on technology and being a total recluse, I’ll trust the machine.
Swedish prosecutors have decided to drop a years-long investigation into an alleged rape committed by WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, though UK police said he would still be arrested if he leaves the Ecuadorean embassy in London. The prosecutors office announced the decision on Friday.
“Chief Prosecutor Marianne Ny has today decided to discontinue the preliminary investigation regarding suspected rape concerning Julian Assange," the prosecutors office said in a statement, as reported by Reuters. In a statement released later Friday, the prosecutors office said it decided to end the investigation because “there is no reason to believe that the decision to surrender him to Sweden can be executed in the foreseeable future.”
Assange fled Sweden in 2012 and has been living at the Ecuadorean embassy in London to avoid extradition ever since. Swedish authorities have sought to interrogate him on allegations of sexual assault brought by two women in 2010. The 45-year-old Australian national has denied the allegations and dismissed them as a pretense for extraditing him to the US, where he could face criminal charges related to WikiLeaks’ publication of classified material. A Swedish prosecutor questioned Assange for four hours at the Ecuadorean embassy in November 2016.
Quoting a lawyer for Assange’s accuser, AFP reported that the accuser is “shocked” by the Swedish prosecutor’s decision, and that she maintains her accusations.
pic.twitter.com/dDvB1Vekhg
Today’s announcement brings a close to the seven-year legal saga, though UK police said prior to the decision that Assange is still wanted for jumping bail, according to the Associated Press. In a statement released Friday, the UK Metropolitan Police said Assange would still be arrested if he leaves the embassy for “failing to surrender to the court” in 2012. The statement said that UK police are “obliged to execute that warrant should he leave the embassy,” though it said that Assange is now “wanted for a much less serious offense” in light of the Swedish prosecutor’s decision.
The US Justice Department is also considering bringing charges against Assange for disclosing classified information, according to news reports last month. Speaking to reporters on Friday, Ny said the Swedish investigation could resume if Assange “were to return to Sweden before the statute of limitation on this case expires in August 2020.”
Quoting one of Assange’s lawyers, FranceInfo reports that he plans to seek political asylum in France. Assange requested asylum in 2015 in an open letter to then-President François Hollande, but the request was denied.
A WikiLeaks spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the implications of today’s decision. In a tweet posted Friday morning, the organization said: “UK refuses to confirm or deny whether it has already received a US extradition warrant for Julian Assange. Focus now moves to UK.” Shortly after the decision was announced, Assange tweeted a photo of himself smiling.
In February 2016, the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (UNWGAD) said that Assange has been “arbitrarily detained” at the embassy, and called for his release. In an interview with The Verge following the decision, Assange said “there must be consequences paid” for his detention.
Everyone's favorite purveyor of previews @evleaks just dropped a bundle of photos purportedly showing the followup to Microsoft's Surface Pro 4. Now called the "Surface Pro" (sans number), according to Blass, it's expected to debut in Shanghai on Tuesday, May 23rd.
Other than some new pen and keyboard colors, there's not much new on the outside to speak of. There's also no USB-C port that we can see, just like the Surface Laptop announced a few weeks ago. Simply put, Microsoft doesn't think that the fledging connector is ready for prime time.
Be sure to hit up Blass' roost at Venturebeat for all the leaked photos.
Apple CEO Tim Cook has been wearing a prototype glucose tracker that pairs with the Apple Watch, according to a report from CNBC. The revelation adds weight to a previous report from CNBC, which said last month that Apple has hired a team of biomechanical engineers to develop a noninvasive device to monitor the blood sugar levels of people with diabetes.
Citing unnamed sources, CNBC reports that Apple’s Palo Alto-based team has already begun feasibility tests with the tracker, which connects to the Apple Watch. Glucose trackers currently on the market use sensors that penetrate the skin. Cook told students at the University of Glasgow in February that he had been wearing a glucose tracker, and that it helped him understand the impact of different foods on his blood sugar levels.
"It's mentally anguishing to stick yourself many times a day to check your blood sugar," Cook said, according to CNBC. "There is lots of hope out there that if someone has constant knowledge of what they're eating, they can instantly know what causes the response... and that they can adjust well before they become diabetic."
More than 29 million Americans suffer from diabetes, according to recent figures from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Among those who have the disease, one in four are unaware of their condition, according to the CDC.
Steve Jobs envisioned using wearables to monitor blood sugar and other vital signs during his tenure as Apple CEO, and the company’s glucose tracker has been in development for at least five years, CNBC reported last month. But developing an accurate and noninvasive technique has proven challenging. Speaking to CNBC last month, biomedical expert John L. Smith said developing such a device has been “the most difficult technical challenge I have encountered in my career.”




There’s been a lot of fanfare around developer Bungie’s decision to bring the sequel to online-only shooter Destiny to the PC, given that the original game was a console-only release for its entire multi-year lifespan. We also found out just today that the game will be distributed exclusively through Blizzard’s Battle.net service, a huge boon for Bungie’s publishing partner Activision Blizzard. But Destiny 2 game director Luke Smith had some bad news to announce at the gameplay reveal event here in Los Angeles: the PC release won’t happen until after the console one on September 8th, 2017, according to IGN.
"We're not committed to a PC date yet, but at Bungie we're totally committed to making a PC build as great as we can," Smith said in an interview with IGN. "Our partnership with Blizzard and being on Battle.net, we want to make sure that this version of the game has the time it needs to bake in the oven so it's a delicious piece of bread when it comes out." So it’s unclear how long it will take for Bungie to get the PC version out.
This information, though corroborated by a webpage about Destiny 2 on Blizzard’s website, does conflict with the Amazon and GameStop preorder pages, which is why, up until now, it was thought that the game would be a concurrent release on both PC and console. It’s unfortunate news, to be sure. But given how many games have botched PC launches of late, it’s probably best that Bungie works closely with Activision and the Battle.net team to ensure the PC release goes smoothly. Because nothing is more souring to a game launch than a PC version that performs poorly and is borderline unplayable at launch.
If YouTube comments stink, and they do, then YouTube live stream chats are positively radioactive in their toxicity. You can pick the most innocent of topics, like say kittens napping in a wicker basket on a sunny day, and it won’t take you long to find a prodigiously persistent troll spamming the chat with Nazi insignia, racist abuse, or anything else designed to shock and offend the greatest number of people. So yes, YouTube chats need a remedy, but Google’s Super Chat idea is the worst possible solution to the problem.
What is a Super Chat? It’s a method to amplify the visibility of your chat message on a live stream by making it larger, giving it some color, and pinning it atop the chat window for a period of time. Oh, and it costs you money. That’s right, in Google’s vision of the future, you get the special privilege of paying to be noticed.
Got something clever to say? Better shake out a few shekels from your coin purse to make sure your fellow viewers note and appreciate your incisive wit. Want your favorite YouTuber to know you’re supporting them in their artistic endeavors? Pay up and they will feel the warm glow of your appreciation.
During its big Google I/O keynote this week, Google highlighted Super Chats in a lengthy segment built around the Slo Mo Guys, a YouTube duo with a penchant for recording things in super slow-motion. The Google presenter paid $500 for a Super Chat, which not only made her message big and bold, but it also triggered a horn that signaled to a group surrounding the Slo Mo Guys to pelt them with a bunch of water balloons. Now, I’m only academically familiar with live porn cams, but isn’t this practically their entire business model? When you pay to have another person perform your twisted little fantasies, the end result is usually a loss of dignity on all sides.
Google’s I/O update for paid chats is the introduction of the Super Chat API, which lets creators script events in the real world that are triggered by the purchase of a Super Chat. It could be the sdtudio lights turning on or off, a drone being launched, or, as in the example above, a loud horn blasting an alert.
The vectors for abuse and deleterious effects with something like Super Chats are simply too numerous. It allows trolls to automate the process of harassing a streamer by just buying a Super Chat and leaving an abusive message pinned. (Google has some spam blocking mechanisms, but no amount of word filtering will completely circumvent things like, say, an ASCII representation of a middle finger). And even when the intent might not be malevolent, the whole "pay the monkey on screen to dance" thing is just distasteful and exploitative.
As with most live streaming things, Twitch is ahead of YouTube on this. You can already pay money to Twitch for animated "cheers," which direct some of the revenue toward the streamers you follow. Or, if you want more prominence for your comment à la Super Chat, you can also donate money and have your comment displayed on an overlay of the stream. The underlying premise, both for Twitch and YouTube, is that you’re supporting the creators of your favorite online content.
YouTube, however, is fundamentally different from Twitch. It is vastly larger and more influential, and its users are not a monoculture of gamers and gaming fans. People do a much wider range of things on camera for YouTube, which makes them more vulnerable to being abused or taken advantage of.
The practical implications of putting the Super Chat monetary mechanics in place are that the relatively better off will be able to dictate what the relatively worse off will do for them. As with most popularity contests, what’s likely to happen with paid chats of this kind is a race to the bottom among creators looking to do more extreme and shocking things to earn a higher Super Chat income. "Super Chat me $100, and I’ll eat rotten food. $200 and I’ll do dessert as well." "Hey, I’ll drink stale milk for $20." "What about me? I’ll eat an entire onion for five bucks."
And what does the existence of Super Chat say to people without the disposable income to spend on manipulating YouTube streams? That their voices don’t matter? Only the wealthy will be able to speak with the added volume of color and a pin. That’s a dangerous cultural message to be promoting among impressionable young people, who make up a large chunk of YouTube’s audience, even if the intended users of this particular feature are an older crowd.
YouTube is a pretty cool place, but the way many of us act on it is far from cool. To improve human communication on a social platform like YouTube, Google needs to craft intelligent social engineering structures that foster a spirit of community and solidarity — and last year’s YouTube Community is a venture in precisely that direction.  YouTube creators also deserve to be paid for their effort, absolutely.
But this Super Chat abomination? It’s as ill-conceived as 2016’s abortive Google Spaces, but I see it as more pernicious because there’s a danger of people actually using Super Chats.
Photography by Vlad Savov
The National Press Club alleged in a statement today that FCC security “manhandled” a journalist after he attempted to ask a question.
According to the statement, CQ Roll Call reporter John Donnelly questioned FCC commissioners after a press conference. When he approached Commissioner Michael O’Rielly with a question, the statement alleges, “two guards pinned Donnelly against the wall with the backs of their bodies until O’Rielly had passed.”
“One of the guards, Frederick Bucher, asked Donnelly why he had not posed his question during the press conference,” the statement continues. “Then Bucher proceeded to force Donnelly to leave the building entirely under implied threat of force.”
Donnelly said in the statement that he “could not have been less threatening or more polite.”
“We apologized to Mr. Donnelly more than once and let him know that the FCC was on heightened alert today based on several threats,” an FCC spokesperson said in a statement.
Today’s proceeding was closely watched and drew major attention from protestors, as the agency started the process to roll back net neutrality protections.
Update, May 19, 11:14AM ET: Includes statement from FCC spokesperson.
Facebook and the MLB announced a new partnership today that will see 20 regular season baseball games live-streamed on Facebook this season, according to TechCrunch.
The games will air weekly on the MLB Facebook page, starting tomorrow night with the Rockies vs. Reds game at 7:10PM ET. According to TechCrunch, the broadcast will be sourced from a local broadcaster from one of the participating teams, without local blackouts. Future Friday night games for streaming will be announced soon.
This is another big partnership for Facebook’s live streaming ambitions, after the company recently announced a partnership with the MLS to stream live soccer matches. And Facebook isn’t the only one trying to build out live sports streams. Twitter previously bought the rights to air Thursday Night Football games with the NFL last season, which Amazon has now picked for the coming season to offer to its Prime customers. Twitter still has some NFL rights too, for other, live content that isn’t streaming games, which still illustrates how important sports streaming rights are getting for social networks.
Google's approach to money is many-pronged. There's Google Wallet, Android Pay, the open Payment Request API it's spearheading, and now the brand new "Google Payment API," to name just a few of its approaches.
This latest system will allow you to buy things — both inside apps and on websites — using your Google account. Most people have a credit card stored with Google for some reason or another, like for Google Play Store purchases, or a YouTube Red subscription. The new API will allow third party developers to charge you through your Google account, with Google handling the security and processing.
If this all sounds familiar, it's because Google actually had a product that it killed off back in 2013 called Google Checkout that was very similar. Nowadays developers can use PayPal Express Checkout to accomplish something like this, but the ubiquity of people logged in to Google accounts at all times does give Google a leg up in this space.
Google is also using this same setup in Google Assistant to facilitate transactions, instead of Android Pay. You can say something like "Send $50 to Paul Miller," and Google Assistant will confirm before it fires off the money — using your fingerprint if you’re on Android. Merchants can also get paid through Assistant this way — in Google's demo at I/O they ordered delivery from Panera using the Assistant.
The new API isn't publicly available yet, but Google is already testing it with a few partners. Payments in Assistant will be US-only when it launches in the “upcoming months.”
Microsoft announced an update for OneNote today across Windows 10, Mac, iOS, Android, and the web, featuring an overhauled design meant to offer improved accessibility and a more consistent feel across the various platforms.
Navigation has been vastly simplified in the new app. Microsoft has moved all controls to be located on the left side of the screen in a series of nested menus, making it simpler to switch between sections, notebooks, and pages from a single place in the app. Additionally, the new design puts the actual information at the center, which Microsoft says will help students avoid distraction.
On the accessibility front, Microsoft is improving keyboard shortcuts to make the program to make the program easier to use for those with mobility impairments, as well as making it easier to use OneNote with screen readers for the visually impaired.
Lastly, OneNote now looks and functions the same across all devices — so whether you're taking notes through the web app or on your phone, things will always be where you expect them to be.
The new OneNote should be rolling out over the next few weeks.

Google has a new tool called Seurat that's designed to take high-end, film-quality 3D scenes and turn them into something that can run on mobile hardware. To demonstrate the technology, Google partnered with IMXLAB at Lucasfilm to take a high-fidelity digital set from Rogue One, which originally took hours per frame to render, and compressed the polygons and textures into something that could run in realtime on its prototype WorldSense headset.
We got to check out a demo, and it did indeed look great. The scene — a dark and foreboding Imperial Hangar — has realtime reflections and lighting effects, along with a looming, animated K-2. It's not exactly cinema quality, but it's better than what you'd normally see running on mobile hardware — although we aren't actually certain how much power is inside the prototype WorldSense headset to begin with.
There are no easy wins left in 3D rendering, and Seurat is definitely a compromise. As illustrated in the GIF above, Seurat works by taking renders of an environment from a bunch of different angles and positions, and then mapping them onto a low-polygon VR scene you can move around in. Based on Google's description of how it works, it probably won't be appropriate for games or highly interactive scenes, but it certainly beats panoramas for immersion.
There’s no word yet on when Seurat will be available for other content creators, but hopefully we’ll have more worlds than Star Wars to explore by the time the big Daydream update hits later this year.
Earlier today I published an article about Facebook Messenger’s new, somewhat improved home screen. But despite the company’s attempt at some cleanup, I came away with the same feeling I’ve had for months: Messenger has transformed into a bloated mess. Commenters on that story agree, and so does pretty much everyone I’ve asked here at Vox Media’s New York office. If you’re tired of Messenger Day and seeing games you’ll never play, I come to you with good news: there’s a much simpler version of Facebook Messenger that strips out all the nonsense.
That version is called Messenger Lite. And it’s not exactly a secret. Over 200 million people are using it around the world. But it’s not available in the United States and elsewhere, so a lot of you might be oblivious to its existence. Heck, I’d forgotten about it until someone mentioned it in the comments.
Messenger Lite is a dramatically simplified version of the app that’s “faster, uses less data, and works in all network conditions.” Those are Facebook’s own words. Who wouldn’t want this?  Remember what Messenger was like two or three years ago? This is basically that. There are three tabs: Home, Contacts, and Profile. Home is a straightforward list of your Messenger chats (with a helpful “Active Now” row of people currently online). Contacts is a massive list of your Facebook friends which I think is organized based on who you’ve talked to most recently. Next to everyone’s name, it shows when they were last active on Messenger. And the Profile section is just where you handle settings, notifications, and so on. Pretty simple.
We recently introduced Messenger Lite, a lightweight version of Messenger that is fast and simply designed for older Androids and markets with slower average Internet speeds. With Messenger Lite, people are able to quickly and easily send text, photos and links to anyone using Messenger or Messenger Lite. The Messenger Lite logo has a blue bolt with a white chat bubble background.

Messenger Lite is starting to roll out in Kenya, Tunisia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Venezuela. Look for Messenger Lite in other countries in the coming months.
Facebook has released Messenger Lite in over 100 countries. But it’s not available in the US, UK, Mexico, Canada, and many other places. That’s because the app isn’t really intended for those markets; it was designed to run on cheap, low-end smartphones and work reliably in regions with iffy data connectivity. If you’re walking around a US city carrying an iPhone 7 or Galaxy S8, Facebook is happy to make you and your unlimited data plan put up with all the crud inside the regular Messenger app. You’re straight up not allowed to install Messenger Lite here.
But there are ways. If you’ve got an Android phone, that is.
Android users might be familiar with the process of sideloading an app they’ve downloaded from a source other than the regular Google Play app store. By default, many Android smartphones won’t allow this; you’ve got to head to the settings menu, go to security, and switch on the ability to install apps from “unknown sources.” (This setting can be switched back off again right away once you’re done, and I recommend doing so.)
If you want to use Messenger Lite, all it takes is finding the app installation file. APKMirror is a trustworthy source of such things, and Messenger Lite can be found right here. You can download it directly onto most Android phones for immediate installation; just make sure you’ve updated your security settings to permit the install. If you’re on a desktop PC, you can just email the file to yourself or drop it into Google Drive and access it from your phone that way, too.
Facebook Messenger and Messenger Lite can live side by side on your phone without much problem, so you can try the streamlined version to make sure it’s got everything you need before uninstalling the full-blown Messenger app. In my relatively brief time using it, I’ve made some notes.
You lose some arguably good stuff, including...
But you get rid of so much bad, such as...
There are no fancy face filters here; there’s not even a built-in camera in this version of Messenger. But you can send people stickers and emoji to your heart’s content. And although voice calling is missing, you’ve got the option to send people recorded, voice memo-style snippets. I do miss Chat Heads — an Android-exclusive feature of Messenger that lets a conversation stay on your screen at all times — but I will gladly sacrifice them for this glorious simplicity.
Unfortunately, I’ve got no help for you iPhone users. Facebook hasn’t released a version of Messenger Lite for iOS since it’s designed for inexpensive smartphones in the developing world. But if you want an easier time running it on Android here in the US, I’d recommend just telling Facebook that people everywhere are very much interested in using this app.
Yesterday, CBS dropped the first real trailer for the upcoming subscription-only series Star Trek: Discovery, finally giving fans a idea of what the first Trek TV show since 2005’s Enterprise will look like. It’s a good trailer, showing off some of the characters, including Commander Michael Burnham (Sonequa Martin-Green) who in a series first will be a lead character who isn’t a Starfleet captain. Reportedly, Discovery will tell a more personal story focusing on Burnham, in additional to the general ensemble crew of the Discovery. That could be an interesting direction for a Star Trek show.
The Discovery trailer also shows a more diverse Star Trek than ever before. While original Trek creator Gene Roddenberry famously broke ground for showcasing diversity on television, Discovery seems to be expanding on that theme, with a black woman (Martin-Green) in the lead role, and Michelle Yeoh as Captain Philippa Georgiou. And like any good Star Trek crew, Discovery also features some new alien species, including Saru (who curiously describes his species as “designated” to sense death).
The trailer features plenty of throwbacks to old Trek, too: The trailer tells us Discovery is set “ten years before Kirk, Spock, and the Enterprise.” There are appearances from Spock’s father Sarek (James Frain) and some bat'leth-wielding Klingon warriors, featuring a bizarre redesign somewhere between the smooth-browed 1966 Star Trek Klingons, the ridged-forehead Klingons from Next Generation, and whatever the hell Star Trek Into Darkness had going on.
So there is some intriguing stuff in the trailer, if you’re looking for reasons to be optimistic about the fledgling series. But there are still plenty of reasons for fans to be concerned about Discovery.
First and foremost is the series’ long, troubling development process, which CBS seems to have completely mishandled from start to finish. Things started out great for Discovery. The show was first announced in 2015, and was set to premiere in January 2017, “on the heels” of Star Trek's 50th anniversary. (In hindsight, the show having been planned from the start to miss that anniversary entirely may have been a bad sign.)
Pushing Daisies, Hannibal, and American Gods creator Bryan Fuller — one of the hottest creators in TV today — was announced as Discovery’s showrunner. That reveal provoked a lot of excitement, especially given Fuller’s reputation for premier television and his history with the franchise. (He got his start in television writing for Deep Space Nine and Voyager.) And Nicholas Meyer, who wrote and directed the fan-favorite Trek films The Wrath of Khan and The Undiscovered Country, was brought on as a writer. Plus, the show was announced to be set in the "Prime" timeline of the original shows and movies, not the "Kelvin Timeline" of the J.J. Abrams reboots.
But Discovery has been plagued by multiple delays — slipping from the January 2017 date to May, and then again from May to an indefinite release sometime in fall 2017. And Fuller was forced to leave the project entirely due to CBS executives’ concerns over his other commitments to shows like American Gods.
Most telling of all, even though Discovery is the first new Star Trek show in more than a decade, CBS seems entirely uncommitted to the series. From the beginning, the network has focused on keeping Discovery subscription-only, as a major draw for its CBS All Access on-demand service. Obviously, corporate concerns will always take precedence in show business, but it's not exactly a vote of confidence that in a media landscape where genre television is more prevalent than ever, Star Trek is getting shunted off broadcast TV. It’s hard not to feel like Discovery is getting relegated to All Access so CBS can cash in on fans' love for the franchise.
Also, comments from CBS Interactive CEO Jim Lanzone to Recode’s Peter Kafka seem to indicate that the network just doesn’t think science fiction works on TV anymore. According to Lanzone, “Sci-fi is not something that has traditionally done really well on broadcast. It’s not impossible, for the future, if somebody figures it out. But historically, a show like Star Trek wouldn’t necessarily be a broadcast show, at this point.”
Network concerns aside, fans have expressed some misgivings about the style of the show, based on the footage we’ve seen so far. Sure, the CGI is slick, but the gritty ship interiors and bland uniforms bring to mind the recent Battlestar Galactica reboot, or The Expanse, not the shining utopian future Star Trek tends to strive toward. It’s an aesthetic informed by more recent Trek ventures like Enterprise and the 2009 film reboots, though, so while it may not be in keeping with the continuity of past TV series, Trek fans will likely adjust to it after the first shock of the new wears off. And if Discovery can tell a good story, they’re likely to find the style less concerning.
But it's worrying that Discovery is returning yet again to the creative well of the original series’ Kirk/Spock era, instead of breaking new ground in another area of the universe. Between the 1960s Trek and its associated movies, the 2009 reboots, and now Discovery, it's the third major return to this time period. Which means Discovery could run into the same problems that any prequel has, in that we largely know what happens to this universe next, at least on a larger scale.
And while it's hard to tell how closely Discovery will hew to the broader themes of earlier Trek series, past shows have already repeatedly tackled the episodic adventures of an exploratory Federation ship full of Starfleet officers. Deep Space Nine showed that there are ways to tell different stories in the world of Star Trek, instead of just slapping a fresh coat of paint on the scaffolding that the original series and Next Generation built. (Voyager and Enterprise also failed to learn this lesson, but that's a conversation for another time.)
But for Discovery, in a franchise whose tagline has always been "to boldly go," it would be nice to see some more boldness from a storytelling perspective, along with the progress in representation.
Ultimately, I'm still cautiously optimistic about Discovery. Yes, there are concerns, and yes, it sucks that viewers will have to shell out for an All Access subscription. But hopefully Discovery can take the stronger parts of its foundation — the cast, the seemingly more personal stories, and of course, the tremendous ongoing potential of the Trek universe — and overcome the issues to bring about a triumphant return for Star Trek on TV. But it’s still got a ways to go to convince me — and all the other fans watching this new trailer with hopeful but skeptical eyes.
The Chromebook Pro was meant to be a grand coming-out party for Android apps running on Chrome OS. The Samsung device would show Google’s ability to not just dominate the education space with web apps, but remove the “native app” issue for anybody that was holding out. But the feature has been stuck in a buggy beta for months and the device itself was delayed. Not great.
We fully expected an update this year at Google I/O, and now we have one. Although Google chose not to say anything up on a big stage, there is good news, bad news, and potentially very exciting news to share. "I don't want to overpromise,” says Kan Liu, senior director of product management for Chrome OS. But he says soon Google will be ready to kick off the splashy product launch we were supposed to have earlier this year.
First, the good news: Google expects the Chromebook Pro to be released on May 28th, complete with support for Android apps running on the Nougat platform. “It will be the first time that we're shipping this new version,” says Liu.
Now, the exciting news: Someday, Liu plans to begin releasing some Android features on Chrome OS before they arrive on phones. “Dessert releases tend to have a yearly release cycle,” says Liu. And that’s not fast enough for what he wants to do on Chrome OS. “We actually want to decouple ourselves from that. Because Chromebooks have a six-week release cycle."
That will mean that in the future some Android features from O could start working on apps running on Chrome OS well before they arrive on phones. "For things that makes sense on this form-factor — APIs and features that we think are important for our users — we're going to be pulling stuff in whenever it's ready," says Liu. Update: Google has clarified that features from Android O won’t arrive on Chromebooks before its release on phones this year.
But of course, there’s bad news: Android apps on Chrome OS will still technically be in Beta when the Chromebook Pro launches. That will mean will not fully support window resizing, docking to the side of the screen, and split-view. Those features will come later in the year.
Essentially, Liu believes that Android apps on Chrome OS are “80 percent” ready for most users. Right now, he thinks the ideal use case for Android on Chromebooks is for people who need just that one app — like Skype or a particular game. Even in beta, he argues, Android apps are ready for that kind of user. He says there are more “guardrails” that ensure that Android apps that expect to be run on phones operate better on larger Chromebook screens. More of them will default to phone view, for example.
But Liu wants to enable a good experience for people who want to do more than just use an Android app on the side now and then, so he’s driving his team to finish polishing up those “power user” cases involving split screen apps, resizing, and the other Android Nougat features we’ve been waiting for. It’s just taking longer than Google originally promised. “The first 80 percent is 20 percent of the work, the last 20 percent is 80 percent of the work,” says Liu.
So while the Chromebook Pro will have those better features, it will take a few of those six-week release cycles before it will be ready to exit beta and get pushed out in a bigger way. Liu puts is this way: "When we do get it right, our intention is to go big."
The process to get here hasn’t been easy, in part because the task is nowhere near as simple as you might expect. The Chromebook Pro hardware itself needed to be redesigned. Issues with the thermals and antennas meant some things had to get shifted around. Google itself handles the software stack, so it needed to tweak that software as Samsung tweaked the hardware.
That software work was just for the Pro, but Google also needed to do much more than you might realize to get Android apps working across any Chromebook. Without getting too technical, there isn’t just a window with an Android emulator inside Chrome OS — instead it’s more tightly integrated with the whole system. But Android apps targeted to different, older versions of Android might behave badly when they get put on a big screen. Google even feels it necessary to support all sorts of very old apps (going back to Android Donut, a 2009 release!) so that it can cover “edge cases and corner cases” that users might have.
But even when Google finally does “go big” and take Android apps out of beta, the company isn’t going to try to get users to abandon web apps. Even when Android apps are working better, many of them simply aren’t going to look great on a big screen. Some will still default to a phone size and Google will pop up a warning to users to resize them. Others simply just can’t compete with web versions of the same. "I don't ever expect anybody to use the Android version of Facebook on this,” says Liu. “Because the web version is much better."
Liu says that it was “not our vision at all” to have users drop web apps for Android apps on Chrome OS wholesale. They’re still largely meant to be things that fill in gaps that web apps can’t fill: like games, downloading Netflix movies, and those weird edge cases. Right now, half of the top ten most used Android apps on Chromebooks are games.
In the end, the story of Android apps on Chrome OS is the same story of nearly every other Google product we’ve heard about this year at Google I/O. Coming soon, but the really big changes will happen later this year. Google is willing to release half-developed versions of its products to its users so they can try them out. And it’s fair to call those things half-baked because that’s literally what they are, half-done.
Or in the case of Android on Chrome OS, 80 percent done. They key is finishing that last 20 percent, and Chrome OS is a big enough deal now that Google can’t leave a key feature in beta forever.
Corrections: This article has been updated to reflect the following: Although the Chromebook Pro will ship with Android N, it will not support window resizing right away. And although it is true that Android updates may hit Chromebooks before they arrive on phones in the future, it won’t be happening with Android O this year.
Extreme floods along the coastline may become much more common if sea levels continue to climb unchecked, new research says. Scientists estimate that as soon as 2030, a 4-inch sea level rise could double the frequency of severe flooding in many parts of the world, and increase it by as much as 25 times in the tropics. For the communities and ecosystems in the floodwaters’ path, the toll could be catastrophic.
Right now, the global sea level is slowly but surely creeping upwards a fraction of an inch each year (0.118 to 0.157 inches per year to be exact). That doesn’t seem like much, but we’re already feeling the consequences of rising waters and eroding coastlines. Tides high enough to flood homes and infrastructure have become more common in some parts of the US like Florida — “turning it from a rare event into a recurrent and disruptive problem,” as a report by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration put it earlier in 2017. In Louisiana, an entire community was driven from their homes on Isle de Jean Charles by rising seas.
Sea water levels are climbing because carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping greenhouse gases are causing global temperatures to warm, which in turn melts the land-based ice. That extra water flows into the world’s oceans. As we keep pumping these gases into the air, oceans will rise even faster. By how much? Scientists are trying to figure that out. Based on some estimates, we can probably expect between 4 and 8 inches of sea level rise by 2050, and between 1 and 7 feet by 2100. The problem is that when sea levels go up, flooding gets worse. That’s why a team of researchers led by Sean Vitousek at the University of Illinois, Chicago, wanted to find out just how bad that flooding could get.
“It doesn’t take much sea level rise to dramatically increase the frequency of flooding,” says Vitousek, who grew up in Hawaii. “I worry that the coastal zone is going to be a very different place in 50 to 100 years.”
The floods that Vitousek set out to investigate weren’t the sunny-day soakings from high tides. Instead, he wanted to understand how the extreme floods that pummel coastlines once every 25 or 50 years would play out across a warmer, soggier globe. Using statistical modeling, the scientists discovered that if sea levels continue to climb as expected, these 50-year floods will strike many regions at least twice as frequently. The findings were published today in the journal Scientific Reports.
Extreme floods depend on the combination of three things. One of them is the tide, which rises and falls according to the gravitational effects of the Sun and Moon. Another are the waves, which can vary in size depending on where you are in the world and which atmospheric phenomena are occurring nearby. And then there are storm surges — where the low atmospheric pressures and powerful storm winds push waves to dangerous heights.
The researchers combined three models that track the tides, wave heights, and storm surges around the world to figure out where, and how often, they come together to cause extreme flood events. Then they added another variable to the equation: rising sea levels.
They discovered that in places where waves are already big, and floods are already severe as a result of natural disasters like hurricanes — in the Gulf of Mexico, for example — sea level rise only boosts the risk of extreme floods a little bit, if at all. But in areas where tides don’t significantly vary the water level, and wave heights stay relatively consistent, sea level rise will turn more typical floods into extreme ones.
The worst effects will be felt in the tropics — the warm, sunny region stretching across the Earth’s equator. Places like the Marshall Islands in the Pacific or the central African coast could be hit by a 25-fold increase in the frequency of extreme floods; today, these devastating events occur only once every 50 or so years. Even just four inches of sea level rise doubles the risk for extreme floods for places like Vancouver, Seattle, San Francisco, and Los Angeles, the study says.
The increase we’re already seeing in flooding today highlights the relevance of this study for the future, William Sweet wrote in an email to The Verge. Sweet is an expert on coastal flooding with NOAA and was not involved in the research.
Sweet notes, however, two caveats to keep in mind. The first is that only 21 years of data was used to calculate the probability of events that occur once every 50 or so years. The short time span means that it’s harder to get a true sense for which events are common, and which ones are rare. Vitousek acknowledges that this is a challenge with studying extreme events because fortunately, they don’t happen very often. “We’d love more data,” he says.
The second is that sea levels don’t actually rise evenly around the globe. So, it will take more number crunching to figure out exactly when specific regions will hit the sea levels that tip the balance towards more frequent extreme floods. Still, Sweet says, it’s a solid and important study.
The dire predictions the study makes aren’t necessarily set in stone, Vitousek says. If we start reducing carbon emissions, figure out a way to remove carbon from the atmosphere — or, preferably, both — we could keep extreme floods at bay. “It is a pretty sobering possibility, but there are things we can do to fix the problem,” he says. Still, Vitousek adds, “It’s going to be very difficult to make this happen without a lot of human intervention.”
Later this year Bungie will release a sequel to the massively popular online shooter Destiny, and it looks to improve on the original in a number of ways. Destiny 2 will add new gameplay features, more in-depth social options, and a plethora of new weapons, abilities, and locations. It will also feature a greater emphasis on story and, in a first for the series, will be available on PC, in addition to Xbox One and PlayStation 4. Destiny 2 will launch on September 8th.
During today’s upfronts, The CW dropped the first trailer for Black Lightning, its latest superhero show. It shows off plenty of superpowered action, but the show won’t be part of the larger DC universe that the network has put together.
Played by Cress Williams, Black Lightning is one of DC’s first black superheroes, and as the name suggests, his powers are based in electricity. In this trailer, he’s described as a hero who kept the streets safe from a gang known as the 100, but after one particularly nasty fight in 2005, he retired. As Jefferson Pierce, he became a high school principal and a devoted father. Fast forward to 2017, and the city’s gang violence hasn’t gone away. When his daughter is threatened, he comes out of retirement to return to crimefighting. Adding to the drama, his daughters are beginning to manifest powers of their own.
In recent years, The CW has put together an impressive universe based on DC characters (one that seems to be far better than its big-screen counterparts), which includes Arrow, The Flash, Legends of Tomorrow, and Supergirl. However, Black Lightning won’t be joining that lineup, according to CW chief Mark Pedowitz. He noted that part of the reason is logistics: Black Lightning films in Atlanta, while the other four shows shoot in Vancouver, Canada, making a crossover between the five stories logistically difficult. That’s not to say that the show couldn’t eventually join them, but it seems like that’s just not in the cards at the moment. “We do not aim to do a five-way crossover,” Pedowitz explained. “Black Lightning, at this time, is not part of the Arrowverse. It is a separate situation.”
Indeed, Black Lightning and Supergirl share a creator in Greg Berlanti, who is heavily involved in the other Arrowverse shows. Supergirl was initially separate when it began its life on CBS, but later joined the universe when it moved to The CW for its second season. While Black Lightning is starting off its life outside of the Arrowverse, crossing over wouldn’t be unheard of.
Pedowitz also noted that Black Lightning is debuting midseason, while the other shows are expected to air in the fall, which would allow The CW to have at least one superhero show on at any given point.
Bungie just unveiled a whole bunch of new information about Destiny 2, the follow-up to the original 2014 online-only shooter. After a series of teaser trailers and cinematic clips, Bungie finally took the wraps off. Here’s what we know:
Destiny 2 will have a greater focus on the story (something the first Destiny famously struggled with), with more cinematic cut-scenes and story missions than ever before. Players will battle Dominus Ghaul, the leader of the Red Legion of the Cabal alien race, who believes that his people should be Guardians, not humanity and wants to take the Traveler’s power and Light for himself.
Destiny 2 will feature new weapons and armor (as announced before, players won’t be able to keep their old gear from the original Destiny), along with new exotic gear. Weapons are now broken down into three types: kinetic, energy, and power weapons instead of the primary, secondary, and heavy classifications as before. The goal is to give players more freedom in putting together loadouts instead of locking them into just a single type of each weapon. We’ve already seen some new weapon types, including grenade launchers, with more likely to come.
New subclasses mean new kick-ass abilities you'll use to fight your enemies. pic.twitter.com/o5h4TYufd2
The three base classes of Titan, Warlock, and Hunter will remain the same, but there will be new subclasses. So far, we’ve seen the Dawnblade, a Solar Warlock subclass with a super that lets you fly around with a fire-slinging sword; the Sentinel, a Void Titan subclass who can summon a shield to smash into enemies and throw, Captain America-style; and the Arcstrider, a Arc Hunter subclasses who wields a powerful staff of lightning. Bungie has yet to reveal, however, if the old abilities from the original Destiny will be available for players to unlock as well.
Bungie is revamping the Crucible (Destiny’s player-versus-player multiplayer mode), which will now feature 4v4 gameplay across all modes. The HUD will give new information like whether your opponents have their Super available or if they’re carrying power ammo, allowing for more strategic gameplay. Additionally, there’s a new Countdown game type with an attack / defend structure being added to the Crucible.
With a new, streamlined Director in Destiny 2, you can seamlessly launch into new activities without returning to orbit. pic.twitter.com/cUv4mv3y5v
The overarching game world is getting a serious overhaul in Destiny 2. Players will be able to launch all activities without going to orbit first in Destiny 2. Now missions, patrols, public events, and more will all be available without having to load back to Orbit and fly into the level. Additionally, there are new “Adventures,” which Bungie describes as missions that characters will send you on with different mechanics and discoveries. Players will also be able to find Lost Sectors, hidden dungeons with a boss and bonus loot. And Bungie says that everything will be easier to find with a new map that will show where and when events will happen.
Destiny 2 will feature some new locations. So far, Bungie has shown off the European Dead Zone, where humanity flees to after The Tower is destroyed in the beginning of the game to start building again; Titan, the moon of Saturn, which is filled with human structures from the Golden Age, and oceanic areas; Nessus, a planetoid taken over by the Vex that’s been turned into a machine world; and Io, the moon of Jupiter.
Official clan support is coming to Destiny. Clans are dedicated groups that play the game together, complete with custom banners and names. There will be progression and rewards across the entirety of the clan for members.
Additionally, while matchmaking wasn’t included in Destiny originally for end-game content (due to concerns about negativity and toxic environments), Bungie is looking to use the new clan support to solve that problem. Destiny 2 will feature “Guided Games” for solo players to join clans to come together for Raids, Trials, and Nightfall strikes. On the flip side of things, players in clans will be able to open their parties to solo players if they need an extra hand.
Destiny 2 is set to release September 8th for PC, Xbox One, and PS4. A beta will be available later this summer.

In a surprising announcement at today’s Destiny 2 event, Bungie revealed that the PC version of the Destiny sequel will be exclusively available on Blizzard’s Battle.net platform.
Battle.net will be used to both purchase Destiny 2 as well as for online gameplay, making Destiny 2 the first non-Blizzard developed game to use the system (which also handles the storefront and online components of Starcraft, World of Warcraft, Diablo, Overwatch, Heroes of the Storm, and Hearthstone.) It’s good news for Destiny, given that Battle.net is historically reliable when it comes to online gameplay, and also means that Destiny 2 will be able to take advantage of Battle.net’s robust player community. Bungie however, will still be in charge of maintaining Destiny 2’s servers.
The news isn’t a complete surprise, given that Activision Blizzard owns Blizzard Entertainment and has an exclusive publishing deal with Bungie. Still, it could be a sign that Activision is looking to build out the service into its own personal storefront, much in the same way that Ubisoft’s Uplay or EA’s Origin services. Blizzard has said that it will only be supporting Destiny 2 for now when it comes to non-Blizzard titles, although the company is also “potentially evaluating needs or opportunities for future Activision games.”
Destiny 2 will be released on Battle.net for PC on September 8th, alongside the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 console versions.
Update May 18th, 2:50PM: Clarified details of partnership.
Bungie today revealed key details about its upcoming Destiny sequel, including a new feature that will make it easier for solo players to pair up with larger groups to do multi-player activities. The feature, called Guided Games, will make it so players who don’t play in large groups or commit to a dedicated clan can enjoy the more challenging experiences like strikes and raids, as well as the more serious competitive multiplayer modes.
In the first Destiny, players effectively had to use third-party services to pair up with strangers for group activities. Those have included Destiny subreddits and dedicated services like DestinyLFG, which let you fill out criteria to be find other players for a certain activity. This was a clunky process — it meant waiting for a message through PlayStation or Xbox’s chat system and hoping you were being paired with a promising group of players. For those who didn’t want to go through that process, the game felt half-finished and isolating, given its online-only requirement and its social infrastructure.
Now, in Destiny 2, Bungie will let players form official, in-game clans with distinct descriptions for the desired level and style of play, as well as rewards that help promote positive behavior. With Guided Games, solo players can pick a clan they want to be paired with, so that when they choose to start matchmaking for a group activity, there will be a shared expectation of the kinds of players they will be paired with, the type of skill level involved, and how serious or casual people are taking the experience.
Introducing Guided Games. In Destiny 2, solo players looking for groups can team up with Clans for challenges like Raids and Nightfalls. pic.twitter.com/HYpGHMKCJ2
It may sound like somewhat of a minor addition, but a lack of matchmaking for Destiny’s harder group activities meant that a vast majority of solo players never got to experience the initial game’s best and most rewarding content. With Guided Games, Destiny 2 sounds much more accessible.
Netflix has greenlit a prequel series to Jim Henson’s 1982 film, The Dark Crystal. The 10-episode revival will be called The Dark Crystal: Age of Resistance, Variety reports. The series will be directed by Louis Leterrier (The Incredible Hulk, Clash of the Titans).
The series will return to the movie’s fictional planet of Thra, where the humanoid Gelflings live alongside the bird-like Skeksis, who represent different kinds of evil. According to Netflix, Age of Resistance will feature three Gelflings who “discover the horrifying secret behind the Skeksis’ power” and set off a rebellion.
As Variety points out, The Dark Crystal was one of only three-feature length films that Jim Henson ever directed. The Jim Henson Company will executive produce the show alongside Leterrier.
No release date has been announced.
Vevo, the music video service most easily recognized for its presence on YouTube, is putting more faith and resources into TV. The company is today releasing a refined app for tvOS, designed to improve on its recent efforts to offer personalized music videos and original content to its users. The move comes as the service sees rapid growth on television as compared to desktop and even mobile.
Vevo’s redesigned tvOS is an evolution of the app the company debuted last year, fully in keeping with the spirit of iteration that has guided its other efforts. With this release, the app surfaces more artist content, including music videos (obviously), as well as the original shows like its Vevo Presents live performance series. In addition, the app continues to learn from the user and offer curated playlists according to their taste. Finally, Vevo’s new turntable.fm-esque Watch Party feature will eventually make its way to the new app, though it’s not clear when.
The increased emphasis on TV is definitely warranted. Across all its platforms, including its mobile, desktop, YouTube, and connected TVs, Vevo sees 23 billion video views per month. However, TV is the fastest growing platform for the service. According to the Vevo, the company saw a 58 percent increase in viewership on television between Q1 of 2016 and Q1 of 2017, and two billion video views for two consecutive months. More than that, TV users tend to stick around for roughly 80-minute sessions of just music videos. Taken together, Vevo thinks it has an opportunity to move its 450 million user base over to its bespoke TV apps in a big way.
Vevo’s new tvOS app will roll out to the App Store tomorrow. Apps for Roku, FireTV, PS4, Samsung TVs, Xbox One will roll out in the months ahead.

The latest and “final” trailer for The Mummy is flush with creepy special effects, Tom Cruise, and somewhat sadly, complete sound. It also boldly reminds viewers that we’re not just looking at a single new film: this is just the first in an entire series of upcoming monster films.
“Witness the beginning of a dark universe,” the trailer proclaims — possibly in reference to the rise of the film’s Princess Ahmanet (Sofia Boutella), but more likely an overt nod to the “Universal Monsters” world-building the movie is doing. While Cruise may ostensibly be the hero in The Mummy, Russell Crowe’s Dr. Jekyll acts as a sort of Nick Fury for a whole mess of movie monsters pulled from Universal’s history. Think the Wolf Man, the Invisible Man, and Abraham Van Helsing, and you’ll get the idea.
It’s the team-up that no one has really asked for, but Marvel’s superhero hits have become the go-to Hollywood franchise strategy. If The Mummy wants to successfully lay the groundwork for a series, however, it will need to stand alone as a good film first, and create likable characters with Crowe and Cruise. That’s a tough ask when you’re trying to make the Wolf Man as cool as Tony Stark — and a gamble when you haven’t even released a single film in the soon-to-be franchise.
The Mummy hits theaters June 9th.
Bungie today revealed the very first gameplay footage of its upcoming Destiny sequel, showing fans at an event in Los Angeles and those watching on its Twitch stream an early glimpse of the revamped online-only shooter. The game, due out on September 8th, 2017, is slightly altering its setting from the initial multi-planetary adventure in the first game. Now, players are fighting to retake Earth’s Last City from a hostile alien force and defend the game’s iconic Traveler, a sentient life form that protects Earth in the far future.
To the disappointment of many Hawkmoon and Gjallarhorn lovers everywhere, all the old gear is being left behind, canonically destroyed by the invasion of the military Cabal species.  In the first CGI trailer released alongside the game’s unveiling back at the end of March, we got the narrative rundown on the upcoming war between humanity’s Guardians and the Red Legion, with its villainous leader Ghaul. (Bungie is calling this the “Red War Campaign.”) In the first gameplay reveal, we get a look at some of the new guns and supernatural abilities — including a flaming Warlock sword — as well as what appears to be an even more cinematic mission layout and structure.
In Destiny 2's Story Campaign, you'll embark on a massive journey to fight back against the Red Legion and reclaim our home. pic.twitter.com/rYa7Q2ApLQ
Since its September 2014 launch, Destiny has been equal parts ambitious and controversial in the game industry. It’s irregular release model meant that, at launch, the game felt unfinished and in serious need of polish based on extensive player feedback. And yet, as Bungie refined Destiny over a number of different expansions, both large and small, the game evolved into a satisfying and rich experience that fully realized the blend of FPS and MMO elements it originally set out to achieve.
Destiny is unlike a traditional shooter, which typically comes finished out of the box with additional add-ons down the line to help the game make money over time. And it’s not quite an MMO, the creators of which tend to charge monthly subscription fees to keep the game alive over the course of many years.
Destiny 2 will feature brand new Exotic Weapons and Armor. pic.twitter.com/zQsu5sKpO5
Instead, Bungie employed a kind of hybrid model fitting for its hybrid title, which the company likes to call a “shared world shooter.” That means Bungie and publisher Activision sold a base piece of software for $60 and then, over the course of more than two and a half years, additional expansions ranging from $20 to $40. So players that stuck with Destiny since launch eventually paid more than $150 for the experience, and yet many extracted hundreds (if not thousands) of hours of gameplay out of it. The value of this experience has depended largely on how invested you as a player became, and the friends that stuck it out for the whole ride.
With Destiny 2, which in a first for the series is coming to PC, it’s unclear how exactly Bungie is going to pace the game’s release structure and what exactly it will feel like at launch. Given all it learned over the last nearly three years of ongoing Destiny development, we can expect the company to have learned a thing or two. We’ll know more as Bungie continues its slow drip of announcements and reveals leading up to the September launch.

The CW’s “Archie Comics for Gen-Y” TV series, Riverdale, spent its first season ratcheting steadily toward the sky, eventually pulling in 2 million viewers per week and knighting its young stars as the new “It” kids of Hollywood.
According to a data dive published on Tumblr’s staff-run Fandometrics blog, the show netted 15 million engagements (defined by Tumblr as “searches, original posts, reblogs, and likes”), and the #Riverdale tag was the 44th most popular across the entire site. That’s impressive, especially considering that the bulk of the site’s most popular tags aren’t for specific properties, but for more vague categorizations like #photography, #travel, or #inspo.

It also means, as Tumblr points out, that a first-season CW show spent the last four months outpacing the tags for well-established fan favorites like Harry Styles, Star Wars, and Pokémon. Beyond its adherence to the obvious, tried-and-true method of “a familiar thing but everyone’s hot now,” how did Riverdale get so popular? The romance and nostalgia angles certainly helped… plus everyone in it is beautiful. But more specifically, Riverdale was written and conceived around the idea of a fan community, incorporating fan service into its scripts before there were fans to appreciate it. Its fandom was reverse-engineered.
According to Tumblr, about 29 percent of all current Riverdale conversation centers around the character of Jughead Jones. Crucially, the character is played by Cole Sprouse, an unlikely personification of internet trends. He was made famous by an early 2000’s Disney Channel show that’s still fodder for memes and GIF sets. He’s cultivated a wry, delightful Twitter presence. And in his free time, he snaps pics of Kendall Jenner for the cover of The Sunday Times. He’s built a brand new career by inverting the tragicomedy of “Where are they now?” and “Look who grew up and got hot!” tabloid baloney, as well as “15 things you forgot about the early 2000s” BuzzFeed culture. And what’s more, he’s willing to admit it.
I only started acting again so you guys wouldn't feel like you wasted money on the posters of me at 12.
CW’s audience is eating it up, and several of the top Riverdale fan-fiction and fan-art bloggers point to the cult of Cole to explain the show’s popularity on Tumblr. Heaven, a fan who runs the popular Jarchie (Jughead and Archie) fan-art blog, explained, “I'm on Instagram a lot, and lots of people were talking about how hot Cole Sprouse was. He had a ‘glow up’ from his Suite Life days. His tweets are funny and he's very intelligent, so I took a great liking to him. When I heard he was going to be on Riverdale, I knew I just had to watch it.”
Riverdale has also instigated an outpouring of fan fiction — mostly speculative “shipping” of the dozens of possible romantic pairings inherent to a teen drama with an ensemble cast. The most popular pairing is “Bughead,” Jughead Jones and Betty Cooper, a duo that generated about 51 percent of Tumblr conversation around Riverdale romances. They’re followed by “Beronica,” Betty and Veronica Lodge, a couple that made up 32 percent of Riverdale shipping posts. But fans have invested time in every conceivable pairing, imagining relationships between Jughead and Archie; Veronica and Riverdale High’s queen mean girl, Cheryl Blossom; and Archie and Valerie Brown, one of the members of the girl band Josie and the Pussycats.
A rudimentary search for any of these ships will turn up dozens of blogs with fan-made art, slash fiction, treatises explaining the story logic and emotional resonance behind each pair, and GIF sets from the series that prove the couple’s undeniable chemistry.
And Riverdale fan blogger Avrealyn points out, “Everything about Riverdale, from its noir elements to its intriguing multi-dimensional characters, the beautiful cast, the fantastic quips and references and writings and storylines and perfect soundtrack choices, as well as the overall gorgeous aesthetics of the scenes… to the colors and the outfits, makes such great fodder for fan fiction and fan art.” That sounds like fan hyperbole, but it’s true that nearly every scene of Riverdale is shot to look like a neon-hued poster. Every frame makes a beautiful GIF, or suggests iterative illustrations.
And the soundtrack is also calculated for maximum teen-fan impact. The first music cue of the season is Santigold’s “Can’t Get Enough of Myself” — from her 2016 album 99¢, the first major music release handled almost exclusively by Tumblr — and the soundtrack only gets more blatantly market-tested and cool-teen-baiting from there. The whole cast is active on Twitter, Snapchat, and Instagram, which gives bloggers even more material to work with. And it gives them direct access to the stars, who engage (generally positively) with their ideas about the show’s relationships.
Fan art isn’t a new phenomenon. And fans write romantically charged fan fiction about essentially any piece of popular culture. But Riverdale encourages it to a degree precedented only by a handful of other recent shows (The CW’s Smallville, MTV’s Teen Wolf), with a writers’ room that’s more than familiar with the internet cultures that spring up around youth-oriented programming.
For example, Archie Comics’ chief creative officer, Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa, who created the series for the CW and wrote several of its early episodes, also penned episodes for Glee. That was another show that explored what seemed like hundreds of different on-screen partnerships. And Glee also saw a massive Tumblr fandom step in to supplement the on-screen stories of favored pairs, and to dive into the rare possible pairing that went unexplored by the writers. Many of the fans who now operate Riverdale blogs told me their interest in shipping started with Glee, or with CW shows like The 100 and Supergirl.
In recent years, the Archie comics have introduced a gay character to the core cast and allowed Jughead to come out as asexual. And the comics have always cheerfully swapped Archie between polar-opposite love interests who are still able to remain friends. So there’s a solid background for the type of quick partner-swapping and sexual-identity exploration that happens in the show. Incidentally, Aguirre-Sacasa, along with Riverdale writer Aaron Allen, also worked on HBO’s Big Love — a Mad Men-era prestige drama about the intersecting relationships in a polygamous Mormon household. They’re no strangers to the dramatic possibilities of convoluted relationships — or the ways presenting fans with relationship choices automatically creates teams of viewers, each enthusiastically rooting for their favorite pairing.
The rest of the creative team is rounded out by more Glee alums, and several writers (including executive producer Greg Berlanti) who worked on the CW’s Supergirl, which has a thriving fan-fiction community around the canonical couple known as “Sanvers” (Alex Danvers, played by Chyler Leigh, and Maggie Sawyer, played by Floriana Lima). Veronica Lodge even uses the word “ship” in Riverdale’s second episode to refer to the potential coupling of canonically gay character Kevin Keller and football player Moose Mason. And it’s obvious that writers took pains to imbue every friendship in the show with a healthy level of flirtation. Betty and Veronica kiss. Veronica and Archie kiss. Archie and Jughead hold eye contact forever. Betty and Jughead bounce every high-school storytelling trope imaginable off of each other. (Their shippers have the easiest time of it.)
The fact that CW, Berlanti, and crew worked backward to make a teen sensation doesn’t mean the fans have been duped, or that they’re on board with all the show’s choices. Fans have vocally criticized the show for queer-baiting, the practice of endlessly hinting and winking at gay relationships without actually letting them come to fruition onscreen.
Andrea, an Italian fan who ships Jughead and Archie, writes, “I’m a gay guy and I look for a possible gay relationship to create for my head-canons in anything I watch or read. In this case, the canon gay kid, Kevin, is not a character I particularly like. It’s not the portrayal of the character I would have liked to see — he wasn't so stereotyped in the comics. So I went looking for other possible queer characters… There is far better stuff to watch on TV, so for me, it's this ship that really keeps me going and keeps me active in the fandom. At this point, I much prefer fan fiction over the actual show.”
Fans have also sparred publicly with actress Lili Reinhart (Betty), who defended what seemed like an intolerant comment about “Beronica” shippers from co-star Shannon Purser (Ethel Muggs), even after Purser published a heartfelt apology. “We are in 2017,” writes Cassandra, a Beronica shipper. “There's still a lot of problems with LGBT rights in the world. It would be the minimum that, on TV, in a fictional world, there could be great representation.”
Sophia, who runs a blog dedicated to demonstrating the chemistry between Betty and Veronica, explains why their potential for romance is so important to her: “If Beronica were to become canon, Riverdale would have an interracial queer couple on the show with strong female leads. There's no show out there like that… that really represents an interracial queer strong healthy couple. We had Clexa, but then one of them died.”
It’s understandable that fans who see a show tailored around their interests, and designed to get their hopes up, would expect the showrunners to hear and respect their requests. Regardless of whether Riverdale’s creators think any given relationship makes sense for the characters involved, or the ongoing story, the might of the online community means they’ll repeatedly be asked about these ideas in interviews, through social media, and anywhere else they make themselves available. At a minimum, they’ll have to think about what the fans they deliberately drew into the fold actually want. Many of these viewers are hungry for the representation they’ve been denied in the broader culture, and Riverdale presents an environment where it feels possible, and even reasonable, to demand it.
The Riverdale phenomenon is mildly interesting, especially considering it’s a first-season show on a network that has had almost no major successes in the last five years, outside of superhero shows. But what’s fascinating is the fandom’s boldness, its intuitive understanding that the pieces of this show were built specifically to be played with.
That kind of fandom is simultaneously the peak of loyalty and its antithesis. Viewers are more invested in Riverdale’s characters and storylines than they are in the average TV show, but they also feel far more entitled to decide when the show hasn’t delivered what they believe they’ve been promised. The fact that some of them would rather have their own version of Riverdale than the one that actually airs is telling. We’re approaching an era where more and more creative properties are viewed as open-source, where deriding something as “not canon” barely even registers as an insult, and where fans who are given a backchannel to interact with stars, creatives, and each other will use it constantly and aggressively.
What Riverdale does or doesn’t do with all this input in its next season will provide something like a rough sketch of the roadmap for the next crop of teen TV writers who choose to loop in massive fandoms. Whether or not these fans keep watching what they come up with will let us know if it was worth it.
Correction: A previous version of this article referred to CW as a cable network, and Teen Wolf as a CW show. CW is a broadcast network and Teen Wolf airs on MTV.
Verizon Wireless will be adding the Asus ZenFone AR to its phone lineup at some point this summer. Google revealed the news during a presentation at the company’s I/O developer conference today, and Asus has confirmed it with a press release. What makes the ZenFone AR unique is that it’s the first phone to support both Tango — Google’s mobile augmented reality platform — and Daydream VR. ‘
First announced at CES, it’s just the second phone to integrate the nascent Tango technology, and this marks the first time a major US carrier will offer a Tango-enabled device.
ASUS announces @verizon 's the exclusive #wireless provider of the @Google @projecttango-ready #ZenFoneAR #io17 https://t.co/YIJjlL98jb pic.twitter.com/gK5vTpxiOZ
Asus says that Verizon will be the “exclusive” wireless provider for the ZenFone AR. The device features a 5.7-inch AMOLED display (is powered by Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 821 processor, runs Android 7.0 Nougat, and includes 128GB of storage and 6GB of RAM. Tango technology allows the ZenFone AR to “detect how far it is away from a floor, wall, or an object and understand where it is moving in three-dimensional space,” according to Asus.
No pricing or specific release date beyond “summer” is being announced at this time. But the ZenFone AR is certainly going to be the nerdiest device you’ll find at Verizon stores, so it’ll be interesting to see how Verizon markets Tango and Daydream to the everyday smartphone shopper.
Chelsea Manning’s nearly seven years in prison ended yesterday, and today she posted the first photo of herself since being released.
“Okay, so here I am everyone!! =P” she wrote, posting the photo on Instagram and Twitter.
Okay, so here I am everyone!!   . . #HelloWorld
A post shared by Chelsea E. Manning (@xychelsea87) on May 18, 2017 at 9:55am PDT
Very little has been seen of Manning, who lived as Bradley Manning seven years ago, since her incarceration for disclosing information to WikiLeaks. A grainy selfie and an official portrait were used repeatedly in media stories about her.
Since her early release — the result of a commuted sentence from President Obama — Manning has set up an Instagram to share new photos of her life outside of prison. Besides the new photo of herself, early entries included a shot of her first steps beyond bars.
Today, a federal court in the Eastern District of New York dismissed a lawsuit seeking to  hold Facebook liable for a wave of violence in Israel in 2015. According to the lawsuit, the violence was encouraged and coordinated by a handful of Hamas-linked Facebook accounts, in what some called “the Facebook Intifada.” The lawsuit sought a court order forcing Facebook to cease providing services to named terrorists, as well as monetary damages up to $1 billion.
In a ruling today, the judge found that Facebook cannot be held liable for those accounts, dismissing two separate complaints brought on those grounds. The result is a legal win for Facebook that could have broader implications for web platforms around the world.
The dismissal hinges on Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, the much-cited Safe Harbor clause that protects online platforms from many forms of liability. The court ultimately found that Facebook’s failure to ban Hamas-related accounts fell within Section 230 protections.
“Facebook's choices as to who may use its platform are inherently bound up in its decisions as to what may be said on its platform,” the ruling reads, citing established protections for speech. Since Facebook is protected from civil claims against particular speech acts on its network, the judge reasoned, the company is also protected from claims against who it allows on the network.
The result is a major vindication for Section 230 as it applies to terrorism cases. Some legal experts have argued Section 230 may not protect platforms in cases of material support to terrorist groups, on the grounds that access to social networks provides a tangible communications benefit. A number of lawsuits have sought to make that case, most recently against Twitter, but it has yet to find favor with the courts.
In a statement, Facebook applauded the decision, while highlighting its anti-terrorism moderation efforts. "We appreciate the court's consideration on this matter,” a spokesperson said. “Our Community Standards make clear that there is no place on Facebook for groups that engage in terrorist activity or for content that expresses support for such activity, and we take swift action to remove this content when it’s reported to us. We sympathize with the victims and their families."
Update 3:51PM ET: Updated with Facebook statement.
Cohen Dismissal by Russell Brandom on Scribd

Google has always used its annual I/O conference to connect to developers in its sprawling empire. It announces new tools and initiatives, sprinkles in a little hype, and then tells those watching: choose us, and together we’ll go far. But while in previous years this message has been directed at coders working with Android and Chrome — the world’s biggest mobile OS and web browser respectively — yesterday, CEO Sundar Pichai made it clear that the next platform the company wants to dominate could be even bigger: artificial intelligence.
For Google, this doesn’t just mean using AI to improve its own products. (Although it’s certainly doing that). The company wants individuals and small companies around the world to also get on board. It wants to wield influence in the wider AI ecosystem, and to do so has put together an impressive stack of machine learning tools — from software to servers — that mean you can build an AI product from the ground up without ever leaving the Google playpen.
The heart of this offering is Google’s machine learning software TensorFlow. For building AI tools, it’s like the difference between a command line interface and a modern desktop OS; giving users an accessible framework for grappling with their algorithms. It started life as an in-house tool for the company’s engineers to design and train AI algorithms, but in 2015 was made available for anyone to use as open-source software. Since then, it’s been embraced by the AI community (it’s the most popular software of its type on code repository Github), and is used to create custom tools for a whole range of industries, from aerospace to bioengineering.
“There’s hardly a way around TensorFlow these days,” says Samim Winiger, head of machine learning design studio Samim.io. “I use a lot of open source learning libraries, but there’s been a major shift to TensorFlow.”
Google has made strategic moves to ensure the software is widely used. Earlier this year, for example, it added support for Keras, another popular deep learning framework. According to calculations by the creator of Keras, François Chollet (himself now a Google engineer), TensorFlow was the fastest growing deep learning framework as of September 2016, with Keras in second place. Winiger describes the integration of the two as a “classic tale of Google and how they do it.” He says: “It’s another way that making sure that the entire community converges on their tooling.”
But TensorFlow is also popular for one particularly important reason: it’s good at what it does. “With TensorFlow you get something that scales quickly, works quickly,” James Donkin, a technology manager at UK-based online supermarket Ocado, tells The Verge. He says his team uses a range of machine learning frameworks to create in-house tools for tasks like categorizing customer feedback, but that TensorFlow is often a good place to start. “You can easily get 80 percent of the benefit, and then you might decide to extend the model in an iterative process working with the same tool.”
Google offers TensorFlow for free, but it connects easily with the company’s servers for providing data storage or computing power. (“If you use the TensorFlow library it means you can push [products] to Google’s cloud more easily,” says Donkin.) The search giant has even created its own AI-specific chips to power these operations, unveiling the latest iteration of this hardware at this year’s I/O. And, if you want to skip the task of building your own AI algorithms all together, you can buy off-the-shelf components from Google for core tasks like speech transcription and object recognition.
These products and services aren’t necessarily money-makers in themselves, but they offer other, subtler benefits. They attract talent to Google and help make the company’s in-house software the standard for machine learning. Winiger says these initiatives have helped Google “grab mindshare and make the company’s name synonymous with machine learning.”
Other firms like Amazon, Facebook, and Microsoft also offer their own AI tools, but it’s Google’s that feel pre-eminent. Winiger thinks this is partly down to the company’s capacity to shape the media narrative, but also because of the strong level of support it provides to its users. “There are technical differences between [different AI frameworks], but machine learning communities live off community support and forums, and in that regard Google is winning,” he tells The Verge.
This influence isn’t just abstract, either: it feeds back into Google’s own products. Yesterday, for example, Google announced that Android now has a staggering two billion monthly active users, and to keep the software’s edge, the company is honing it with machine learning. New additions to the OS span the range from tiny tweaks (like smarter text selection) to big new features (like a camera that recognizes what it’s looking at).
But Google didn’t forget to feed the community either, and to complement these announcements unveiled new tools to help developers build AI services that work better on mobile devices. These include a new version of TensorFlow named TensorFlowLite, and an API that will interface with future smartphone chips that have been optimized to work with AI software. Developers can then use these to make better machine learning products for Android devices. Google’s AI empire stretches out a bit further, and Google reaps the benefits.
Update May 20th 06:30AM ET: Updated to clarify the use of TensorFlow by Ocado in building in-house tools.
When word spread in 2016 that Google would move into serious virtual reality, not just disposable cardboard viewers, my colleague Dieter Bohn immediately put a couple of pieces together. One was the need for headsets that could track motion without dedicated “VR rooms” full of cameras or markers. The other was Project Tango, a Google experiment that used an array of cameras to map physical space. Google only announced the more modest Daydream mobile headset that year, but a Tango-powered device seemed inevitable. At I/O 2017, it finally arrived, in the form of a standalone headset that’s supposed to ship later this year.
Google head of VR Clay Bavor describes the new headset as one point on a spectrum called “immersive computing,” an emerging technological paradigm that “enables our computers to work more like we do.” His team’s been working on this project for two and a half years, and Google is partnering with Qualcomm, HTC, and Lenovo to release a reference design and two commercial products based on it. If this works, Google’s years-long experiments with augmented and virtual reality will have converged into the ideal self-contained VR headset. But the standalone device feels more like a new beginning than a culmination — and it may be healthier for VR if we treat it that way.
The new VR headset uses Google’s Android-based Daydream platform and a system called “WorldSense,” which tracks motion through front-facing edge-detecting cameras. I tried a prototype of the design, and it feels like a solid foundation that could be fine-tuned into something great, if Google can keep to the rest of its promises.
The final headsets are supposed to cost about as much as high-end tethered products like the $599 Oculus Rift or $799 HTC Vive, but without the additional cost of a PC. While that’s a lot of money, it’s not drastically more expensive than what people might pay for a gaming console. They’re designed to make VR feel casual and accessible even to people who don’t have Daydream-ready phones, especially people who aren’t interested in Android at all. “It turns out that a lot of people have iPhones,” Bavor jokes.
Meanwhile, a rendering system called Seurat — named after the pointillist painter Georges Seurat — is supposed to offer image quality that rivals what you’d get on a high-end PC. Andrey Doronichev, Google’s director of product management, describes Seurat as “computational magic.” It takes a rendered three-dimensional scene and samples shots of it from many different angles. As seen above, Seurat uses these images to assemble a facade that drastically reduces the number of polygons the headset needs to render, without a visible loss of quality.
Google can also use the same Daydream user interface it’s been fine-tuning for the past year on phones. A software update codenamed Euphrates will add the features you need for devices that users can’t just pop apart and use as a phone, like a full-featured web browser and a dashboard for accessing settings and other non-VR parts of Android.
But for all that, the device Google describes doesn’t feel like a finished product, or a direct competitor to tethered headsets. It feels like an amped-up Daydream. Google’s standalone headset is using the same familiar interface as phone-based Daydream devices. Unfortunately, the standalone headset also imports Daydream’s simple remote, instead of a pair of controllers that can convincingly mimic virtual hands. That means it still can’t run apps like Tilt Brush and Job Simulator — two beloved VR experiences from Google-owned studios. For now, those will remain restricted to third-party devices like the Rift and Vive. Partners like HTC and Lenovo can’t substitute their own controllers, either, or integrate technology like Leap Motion hand tracking.
Bavor says this will create a consistent standard for developers, and suggests that it might feel different using the remote with inside-out tracking. “Obviously things like Tilt Brush won't get translated to an experience like this,” he says. “But what we've found is some nice ways of blending [inside-out] head tracking and a [non-tracked] controller.” The change is certainly on his mind: “We do updates every year, and there'll be future updates” to the hardware, he says. For now, the lack of such a ubiquitous feature will make the headset feel a bit like a hybrid development kit, no matter how polished the rest of it is.
And that seems like exactly what Google wants. An exclusive look at the hardware beforehand, written by Stephen Levy at Backchannel, is an exercise in aggressively resetting the narrative that VR’s arrival is imminent. In a long essay published alongside it, Bavor pushed back against the idea of a “killer app” that sells everyone on VR, suggesting that seemingly niche applications will slowly grow to have mass appeal.
YouTube, which arguably is Daydream’s killer app right now, feels like another loose end for Google. People can’t move around inside its 360-degree videos, so unlike in the vast majority of VR experiences, the standalone headset’s sophisticated tracking system won’t do much. But Google, which already has a VR video platform called Jump, could change that with cameras that map three-dimensional space as they record it. This is experimental technology, but companies like Lytro are already using versions of it. So is the ultimate goal a YouTube where people will be able to literally walk around inside videos. “Maybe,” Bavor says coyly.
For the last few years, companies have all been building toward their first generation of “mass-market” (by virtual reality standards) headsets. Success meant creating something that felt finished and ready to push out to millions of people. Google certainly seems to hope that phone-based Daydream headsets are at that point — it projects there will be “tens of millions” of Daydream-ready phones by the end of the year.
But depending on what HTC and Lenovo unveil, Google’s standalone headset may be more like a bridge between two generations of virtual reality. A lot of pieces are falling into place, but in the process, Google is highlighting the gaps that remain. For now, that’s not a bad thing.
Thirty three pages of posts on the official Samsung Community forum boil down to one simple request: please add an option to turn off automatic HDMI switching. The first question was asked by CNMark in April of last year. Since then, hundreds of replies have chimed in with similar requests and anecdotes. "Turning on my computer changes the TV to my HDMI... pretty frustrating when the wife is watching one of her shows," writes one user. Most complaints have a similar theme.
Here’s how CNMark kicked it off:
Turn off auto-detect HDMI
How do you turn off the auto-detect HDMI feature? Sometimes my Apple TV comes on and then the TV automatically turns on as well but I don't want the TV to do so. How do you turn off this feature?
Thanks,
Mark
The "feature" seems to be a new addition to 2016 models, but it's not well documented and the inability to turn it off sounds like a bug. It's especially exacerbated by the Nintendo Switch, which causes these Samsung TVs and some other devices to switch over to its HDMI input randomly when it's in sleep mode. At least this can be slightly fixed on the Switch’s end by turning off the “Match TV Power State” setting, as a forum moderator helpfully points out.
On the thread there are plenty of documented attempts to chat with Samsung support — no amount of resetting the firmware or toggling options seems to fix the core issue. One intrepid user, "Sam Soong," started snipping wires in the HDMI cable to see if an advanced HDMI feature was responsible for the automatic switching, but with no luck.
HDMI-CEC (Consumer Electronics Control) allows devices to communicate with a TV and pass information and inputs on through. For instance, the PS4 has CEC, and can automatically switch a TV to its HDMI input when it fires up. This feature can also be manually disabled on the PS4. But there's also an option to disable CEC on these offending Samsung TVs, and it doesn't solve the issue, and disabling CEC on the PS4 doesn't help in this case either.
The best solution I've spotted on the forum so far is adding an HDMI switcher to your setup, so the TV only has one HDMI plug to worry about. It's not ideal, but until Samsung can offer a firmware update or other solution, it's the best way to end the frustration.
We’ve reached out to Samsung for comment, but no response so far.
Russia may have used Twitter as a tool of international espionage. An article published today in Time describes an official report that circulated through the intelligence community, claiming agents of the Russian government sent malware-laced Twitter messages to more than 10,000 employees of the US Department of Defense.
“Depending on the interests of the targets, the messages offered links to stories on recent sporting events or the Oscars, which had taken place the previous weekend,” the Time report reads. “When clicked, the links took users to a Russian-controlled server that downloaded a program allowing Moscow's hackers to take control of the victim's phone or computer — and Twitter account.”
It’s a new tactic for Russian groups, which have more typically relied on phishing to spread malware and Twitter accounts for political influence. Sometimes, those campaigns involved adopting a specific persona. Time also describes a Russian soldier based in Ukraine, masquerading as a 42-year-old American housewife in order to influence political debates.
Networks of bot accounts have been a persistent problem on Twitter over the course of the election. In October, analysts detected a network of zero-follower accounts impersonating American teens to retweet pro-Trump sentiments. The FBI is reportedly investigating similar networks of Twitter bots as part of its probe into influence on the 2016 election.
Twitter-based malware was a particular concern in the early days of the Trump administration, when the President insisted on using Twitter from a consumer-grade Samsung Galaxy S3. Had a foreign agent sent a malware-laced reply to the president, it would have been trivial to compromise the phone. More recently, the president has begun tweeting from an iPhone; it’s unclear if any security modifications have been made to the phone.
Google’s Daydream VR platform is getting its first major software revamp later this year, nudging the interface toward being a more full-featured operating system. The update, codenamed Daydream Euphrates, will roll out to all phones with Daydream support. As part of a larger move to support self-contained headsets that aren’t powered by phones, it will add a 2D panel that pops up on top of virtual environments, giving all users better access to normal Android functions in VR.
“The whole idea behind this is, we don't want to take you out of the VR experience if you need to check notifications or change a setting or pause or do whatever,” says Mike Jazayeri, the Daydream director of product management.
The update adds more image and video sharing options, too. There will be a new screenshot and screen capture feature, and you’ll be able to cast your screen live to a Chromecast-equipped TV — which means that people can see what you’re doing in VR, similar to the “mirror mode” on desktop VR headsets. (For now, it’s just local Chromecast-based streaming; you can’t broadcast live gameplay sessions online with this option, for instance.)
There’s also going to be a version of Chrome that works inside Daydream. This gets a little complicated, because as some readers may remember, you could already access Daydream experiences through Android’s Chrome browser. In that case, you’d be navigating to a page normally on your phone, then launching WebVR-enabled experiences that you could view through Cardboard or Daydream. But with this new flavor of Chrome, you’ll be able to literally browse web pages while in a headset, while also launching WebVR content.
Daydream’s not the first headset to have a VR web browser — Oculus launched one for Gear VR a couple of months ago, and Samsung had one before then. And this isn’t exactly going to be most people’s primary Chrome experience. But it’s another way to keep people from having to take the headset off if they need to find something online. And if you’re already using Chrome elsewhere, it’ll import your bookmarks and other personalizations, like the normal mobile version.
On a slightly separate note, Google is also adding augmented reality features to Chrome for phones that support Tango. You could launch a web app that lets you preview furniture in your living room, for example, without downloading a full app. The AR browser options will be released in an experimental Chromium build today, so developers can check them out on Github, while the VR browser will hit Daydream this summer.
The virtual reality version of YouTube is adding shared rooms that will let people view 360-degree videos together, part of a larger update to Google’s Daydream VR platform. The new feature, coming later this year, offers what YouTube VR product lead Erin Teague calls a “co-watching experience.” That means that small groups of people can enter a viewing session, talking to each other via voice chat.
Teague describes community as “one of the core pillars that makes YouTube YouTube.” People will have control over what they’re viewing, but they’ll be able to see what other people are watching and choose to sync up the same video. People will appear as customizable (but generally human-looking) avatars, and they’ll speak out loud in real time instead of leaving comments or chat messages. “How do you take comments and apply them to VR?” Teague asks. The answer? “Voice will be the way that people express themselves in VR.”
The whole system sounds a bit like Oculus Rooms, which provided spaces where people could hang out and chat through the Gear VR. Linden Lab has also showed off a group 360-degree video platform in its virtual world Sansar. More generally, many VR social networks let people hang around and watch videos together. Google’s co-watching experience seems less skeuomorphic than these — you’re communicating with friends, but under the illusion that you’re all in the center of the same 360-degree video, not sitting with each other in a virtual living room. We’ll have to wait to find out how intimate that feels.
Google’s standalone VR headset, announced yesterday at I/O, was both obvious and unexpected. People have been talking about a self-contained Google headset for over a year, and speculating (quite confidently) that the company would eventually use Tango augmented reality tracking in lieu of outside cameras. But Google head of VR Clay Bavor didn’t just announce the existence of new hardware — he promised a reference design and two commercial versions, made by HTC and Lenovo, by the end of the year.
That’s an aggressive timeline, suggesting that Google’s already got something in pretty good shape. Despite this, Bavor didn’t show much on stage besides a line drawing of the planned hardware. After the keynote, though, I was part of a small group that got to check out an early prototype — and while it’s too early to say whether Google can pull off a fully self-contained VR headset, the core technology really does work.
Before we started our demos, Bavor cautioned that we were trying a year-old prototype using a previous-generation chipset, with higher latency than we’d see on the upcoming reference design from Qualcomm or the final headsets from Lenovo and HTC. (The reference design will use Qualcomm’s new Snapdragon 835 chipset.)
We weren’t allowed to take photos or video, and the black plastic headset was bulky and bare-bones, although it fit a lot more comfortably than some other prototypes I’ve tried. The weight was better-distributed than on Daydream or Gear VR headsets, where all the electronics are packed in a phone on the front. While the field of view and screen resolution seemed roughly on par with the HTC Vive and Oculus Rift, finished versions may well use different components, so it’s premature to judge it there.
Anyone hoping for some Microsoft-style inside-out motion controllers from Google will have to wait a while. The first generation of Google’s standalone headsets will use an ordinary Daydream controller, which offers only limited motion tracking. This could change in the future, but during our demo, we didn’t even get to use the remote — our experiences were restricted to walking and looking.
The operative element we were supposed to be trying was the WorldSense tracking system, which is indeed based on Tango. Unlike Tango, the current iteration of WorldSense doesn’t include a depth-sensing camera. It relies primarily on front-facing cameras to detect edges in the environment and use them as reference points, so the headset can tell how far you’ve walked in real space and translate that into virtual motion as well.
In the first of two demos, wearers could walk around a virtual ocean floor, complete with wandering jellyfish and a circling sea turtle. The second put them in a large Imperial hanger from Rogue One, complete with a dour K-2SO. Google doesn’t give a hard limit for how much space one of its headsets can track, but I was stationed on a rug with a roughly one-meter radius for both; if I strayed outside it, the world was set to fade out.
Tracking is supposed to improve the more you use the headset in a specific place, as WorldSense builds a better spatial image of it. But Bavor promised that these prototypes had been set to start each demo fresh, as though they had never seen the room before. (As he joked at one point, Google is showing us its standalone headset in the worst shape we’ll ever see it.)
Inside the experience, motion didn’t feel quite as crisp as it would in an externally tracked Rift or Vive. My vision didn’t swim the way it sometimes does with inside-out headsets, but I felt as though the world was drifting with me, just a little bit, especially when I crouched to look at the ground. That said, it felt more natural than my time with Intel’s Project Alloy, Qualcomm’s own Snapdragon-based headset, or assorted other inside-out tracking systems. It’s the first experience I’ve had that rivaled that of Oculus’ Santa Cruz prototype. (I haven’t checked out Microsoft’s self-tracked VR headsets yet, unfortunately.) The world jumped out of place once, but only because I literally cupped my hand over the sensor strip.
I can’t say how well the prototype I saw works on any objective scale. I tried it in a room with good lighting and lots of edges and textures, including a cross-hatched pattern on the rug below me. In dimmer environments with less definition, it may not perform as well. On the other hand, some imperfections might be due to the older hardware and higher latency. Both demos had you move around a limited space with minimal interactivity, not a full-fledged virtual world. But the Rogue One setting was highly detailed, optimized radically (according to Google) through a system named Seurat.
Regardless, it’s impressive to see inside-out tracking doesn’t feel obviously compromised. In an industry where hardware can languish in prototype stage for years, WorldSense could plausibly be good enough to put in the real commercial headsets Google has promised — which could completely change the way people experience mobile VR. If Google sticks to its timeline, hopefully we’ll actually see them in a few months.
Selena Gomez released a new song called “Bad Liar” today, which, if you keep up with those kinds of things, you might already know about. What you might not know is that there’s also a new video for the song, and you can only watch it one particular way: vertically, on a smartphone, exclusively on Spotify.
Another thing: you won’t find the “Bad Liar” video if you just mosey over to Gomez’s Spotify page. It’s only available as part of Spotify’s Today’s Top Hits playlist. Eventually the video will likely move over to YouTube, but for now, you’re stuck with Spotify’s mobile app and a vertical view.
This is not the first time Spotify has added music videos to playlists. The service’s RapCaviar playlist often features videos snuggled alongside songs, but all of those videos are horizontal. Spotify’s decision to release “Bad Liar” vertically proves the company knows that people will mostly be watching on their phones, but that doesn’t change the fact that watching vertical videos is still kind of unpleasant.
Apple Music also recently announced that it was going to start focusing more on exclusive videos, so I guess this is where the streaming wars are at now.
The FCC has voted to begin undoing the net neutrality rules that were put in place just two years ago.
In a 2-to-1 decision, the commission voted to open debate on what are essentially two things: first, a proposal to reverse the Title II designation used to enforce tough net neutrality rules on internet providers; and second, the question of whether the FCC ought to impose any kind of net neutrality rules at all.
Today’s vote doesn’t immediately undo the 2015 Open Internet Order. Instead, it kicks off a public commenting period that will last for several months during which companies, interest groups, and advocates can file their thoughts with the FCC.
When the comment period closes, likely later this year, the commission will then put forward a finalized proposal, theoretically taking into account those comments, and vote to put that into the rulebooks.
At this point in time, it’s hard to envision the commission not overturning Title II by the end of this proceeding. Two of the three people leading the FCC right now were opposed to that classification in the first place, which means the votes are there to make it happen.
Internet providers and FCC chairman Ajit Pai have tried to separate what they’re doing here — updating the regulatory classification of internet providers — from net neutrality. But the reality is that there’s no way for the FCC to enforce tough net neutrality rules without relying on Title II as a legal backing. So in reversing Title II, the FCC is necessarily gutting its net neutrality rules.
Today’s vote also opens up a broad inquiry into what, if any, protections the FCC should add to replace the outgoing net neutrality rules. The commission seems skeptical that any net neutrality rules are needed at all, saying at one point that there is “virtually no quantifiable evidence of consumer harm” to guard against.
“The internet was not broken in 2015,” Pai said today. “We were not living in a digital dystopia.”
The commission’s lone Democrat, commissioner Mignon Clyburn, strongly disagreed that the FCC should lighten its oversight, saying that going through with this proposal “would deeply damage the ability of the FCC to be a champion of consumers and competition in the 21st century.”
Since taking over the agency, Pai has put an emphasis on expanding broadband access to areas of the US that still don’t have any providers. His hope is that by deregulating internet providers and removing restrictions on business models, like the creation of fast and slow lanes, ISPs will have more incentive to build out their networks and reach new customers.
Clyburn strongly disagreed with that that line of thinking. This proposal, she said, “contains a hollow theory of trickle-down internet economics, suggesting that if we just remove enough regulations from your broadband provider, they will automatically improve your service, pass along discounts from those speculative savings, deploy more infrastructure with haste, and treat edge providers fairly.”
During the meeting, Pai read letters from smaller internet providers claiming they had slowed network expansion because of the Title II regulations. “Consider for a moment why these statements are so important,” Pai said. “These are the very companies that are critical for injecting competition into the broadband marketplace, the very companies that are critical to closing the digital divide.”
Pai said the public would have 90 days to leave comments on the proposal.
When I go to an art gallery or museum, I sometimes have to resist the urge to touch things. I want to know it’s like to run my hands along a twisted sculpture and feel the cool metal, or to trace my finger along ancient wooden carvings. Most enticing of all are paintings: I’ve always imagined that the texture of “Starry Night” would add another layer of depth to the viewing experience. Of course, you can’t touch precious works of art. But you can get some of that same feeling with Old Man’s Journey, which launches today on iOS, Android, PC, and Mac.
Old Man’s Journey tells the story of an elderly man who sets out on a lengthy trip of self-discovery. It opens with the man staring out to sea, before receiving a letter that causes him to don a giant backpack, grab a walking stick, and set out. The story is told entirely without words. At certain points, the man will stop and sit, and reminisce about his life. Each memory comes in the form of a still image depicting a particularly important life event; the birth of a child, for instance, or an early voyage out to sea. The wordless narrative is reminiscent of short animated films like Paperman or any number of Pixar shorts. It’s a story that’s both sweet and simple, though lacking a bit in the way of subtlety.
One of the most striking things about the game is how it looks. Each area is like a beautiful painting. You’ll come across warm orange sunsets over quaint seaside towns, and dreamy Mediterranean-inspired villages that make you want to pull up a chair and hang out at a cafe all day. For the most part the scenes are still, but with small moments of animation that brings them to life, like tall grass flowing in a strong breeze, or a cat snoozing on a park bench.
To move the old man around these scenes, you simply need to tap or click where you want him to go. But there’s an extra layer of depth to each area that’s not apparent until you start manipulating the landscape. In Old Man’s Journey, you can raise and lower hills, connect highway roads, and move underwater debris all with a touch of your finger. The goal is to create a route for the man to safely follow. Raising a mountain might connect two paths, or it might uncover a hidden area to traverse. Later on, this manipulation becomes more puzzle-y. When a series of stone walls block your path, you need to figure out how to smash them by rolling giant metal gears down a hill.
It’s never especially challenging. At no point did I find myself stuck on any given puzzle for more than a minute or two. But the interactions are playful and charming, and their tactile nature makes an otherwise simple experience feel much more engaging and meaningful. There are a handful of moments that go on a bit too long — a sequence where you’re connecting train tracks really drags, for example — but for the most part Old Man’s Journey is a concise, heartwarming story you can experience in around two hours. It’s not quite the same as feeling a Van Gogh painting with the tip of your finger, but it’s close.
Old Man’s Journey is available now on Steam, iOS, Android, and the Humble Store.

Lenovo is refreshing its IdeaPad and Legion gaming laptop line today, along with the announcement of a new Flex 2-in-1. Three new IdeaPads are being released this June — the 720S, 320S, and the 320. They stand out more than anything else because they’re being released in real, non-generic laptop colors. They’ll probably appeal to college kids. I embedded a photo of the purple 15-inch 320 IdeaPad above, but it’s also available in a red, white, silver, blue, and black. The 15-inch 320 starts at $439.99 while the 17-inch starts at $489.99. It can include up to a 7th generation Intel Core i7 processor and up to 2TB of HDD storage with 16GB of memory.
The most expensive of the IdeaPads announced today is the 14-inch 720S. The S stands for slim, by the way. It starts at $969.99 and can include up to a 7th generation Intel Core i7 processor, 512GB of storage, 16GB of memory, a Full HD (1920x1080) non-touch screen, and USB-C with Thunderbolt. It also weighs less than three and a half pounds. Unfortunately, that laptop only comes in a lame silver or gold, which is unfortunate for anyone who likes fun. The keyboard design looks nice, however, and simple.
As I mentioned, Lenovo’s also releasing another gaming laptop in its Legion line. The Y920 is VR-ready, includes a 17-inch, Full HD (1920x1080) display, a Nvidia GTX 1070 GPU, 16GB of memory, 512GB of storage, a seventh generation Intel Core i7 processor, and a mechanical keyboard with RGB lighting. It starts at $2,699.99.
Finally, Lenovo also has a new 2-in-1. The Flex 5 starts at $719.99 and can include up to a seventh generation Intel Core i7 processor, 16GB of memory, 512GB of storage, and, depending on the size, an Ultra HD (3840x2160) IPS display with pen support.  All these devices run Windows 10. The laptops will be available in June while the Flex goes on sale some time this month.
Facebook Messenger is being updated across both Android and iOS with a refreshed, simpler look that puts an emphasis back on messaging. The app “is now organized around making Messenger your hub for connecting with all the people and businesses you care about,” according to VP David Marcus. The revised home screen layout certainly makes more sense than the bloated, confounding mess that’s on my phone right now. Across the top are tabs for Messages, Active, and Groups. Pretty self-explanatory. Messenger’s blatant Snapchat clone, Messenger Day, still gets a huge chunk of screen real estate beneath that, though.
The bottom of the app has sections for Home, Calls, People, and Games. Marcus says there will soon be a Discover tab down there, as well. This is where I complain again: I wish Facebook would let people hide or get rid of the functions of Messenger they’ll never use. I’ve never interacted with a single bot; I’ve never played a game. I love Instagram stories and will never enjoy Facebook Messenger stories.
I long for the days when Messenger was a lightweight, dependable chat app. You could convincingly argue it was a better app two years ago than it is today. Why must it do so much? Why does the thing need an entire games tab? It was annoying enough before when the Games section would reappear on my home screen no matter how many times I’d previously dismissed it. That said, not everything’s bad. I’ve seen some of the suggestions from Facebook’s M assistant pop up in my conversations lately, and those are somewhat helpful. A lot of Messenger’s features — sending money, making voice and video calls, etc. — make sense. But others are a definite reach.
Facebook says this new Messenger look will roll out globally this week on both major mobile platforms. Maybe I’ll start using it on my phone more now that the home screen makes sense again.
Donald Trump has made himself “vulnerable to fake news” by not adequately staffing the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, according to a letter sent to the president by members of the House Committee on Science, Space & Technology.
The letter — signed by House representatives including Don Beyer (D-VA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) and Mark Takano (D-CA) — urges the president to quickly appoint a qualified candidate to head the OSTP. The OSTP is responsible for advising the president on policies that affect science and technology. In the past, it has provided guidance on potential pandemics and called for open government initiatives.
“Disseminating stories from dubious sources has been a recurring problem with your administration,” the letter states. It cites a recent Politico story about Trump receiving false information on climate change, as well Trump’s claims of voter fraud and his assertion that Obama wiretapped him — claims rejected by then-FBI director James B. Comey. It is therefore critical to appoint a well-qualified OSTP director that “represents the views of the broader scientific community,” the letter continues, lest the president continue to believe widespread misinformation.
This is far from the first rebuke Trump has received when it comes to science. The president has called climate change a “Chinese hoax,” silenced government scientists with gag orders, and suggested a budget that would be very bad for scientific research. Such actions spurred concern among the scientific community, as well as April’s March for Science.



The Folio Society is a British publisher that releases some incredibly beautiful books, like their editions of American Gods and I, Robot. Today it adds to its lineup with The Call of Cthulhu and Other Weird Stories, a collection of H.P. Lovecraft’s stories. The edition comes with an excellent preface from Watchmen author Alan Moore and with some stunning art from Dan Hillier.
Lovecraft has become an increasingly controversial figure in the literary community. He’s lauded for his weird and horrifying cosmic-horror stories, which launched an entire subgenre, and still inspire authors and readers today. But his work is complicated by a long legacy of racism and bigotry. In his preface, Moore addresses this, trying to reconcile the author’s views with his truly innovative body of work: “Lovecraft and his work endure because his terrors have a higher register that lifts them far above contemporary scares and bigotries, an existential dread informed by his awed comprehension of modern cosmology, where mankind is reduced to a chance viral outbreak on a vanishingly tiny fleck of dirt amid a random and unending avalanche of suns.”
The Folio Society is releasing two editions: a “core” edition and a 750-copy limited edition, each with art that’s been commissioned for the run. The limited edition isn’t cheap at $575, but it looks like it could be a volume lifted directly from of one of Lovecraft’s stories.
We chatted with Hillier about how he went about illustrating Lovecraft’s “unimaginable” horrors.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
What is your own relationship with Lovecraft? Are there any particular stories that you've enjoyed before this project?
I've come to Lovecraft quite late, actually. In fact, it was only in preparation for this project that I really got stuck in. I had read a few stories in the past, mainly because people often asked if I was influenced by him, or told me I should read his stories based on the subject matter of my older work. And I enjoyed it, but it was only in reading the stories that make up this collection that I really got into his writing.
It took a while to adjust to his antiquated and often feverishly grandiloquent language, but once I did, I loved the drama and hysteria and intensity of his writing, and the power of his imagination meant that images for the work came easily to me.
How did you go about drawing these images, and how did you specifically work to capture the weirdness of the stories?
The images are made as I make all of my work, by collaging bits and pieces of 1800s woodcuts and engravings with my own drawn elements and allowing the process of putting these fragments together to build the picture as much as any sort of planning.
I wanted to make pictures that reflected the darkness and mystery of Lovecraft's stories, and went about building these images with the intention for them to be quite claustrophobic and shadowy, whilst also containing something cosmic and otherworldly. I used a lot more black than I usually do, and I wanted all of the images to reflect one another, sharing themes and textures, such as the stars and the black coiling smoke, as it's a feature of Lovecraft's writing for characters and objects to crop up in several seemingly unrelated stories.
My work is already quite dark and weird, so I enjoyed turning the dial up on that.
At the start of the project, we agreed that I wouldn't be illustrating as such, but rather making imagery that would fit with his stories' atmospheres and themes. But in the end, they became quite illustrative.
I wanted to steer clear of making imagery that was too representational, especially of Cthulhu, who has been depicted so many times and so well. With Cthulhu in particular, I wanted more to put over the elemental power and horror of the monster, rather than show a physical depiction of it.
These illustrations in this anthology focus quite a bit on faces. Why?
I think it's mainly a feature of the work I like to make, as the starting point of my pictures is often a nice wood engraving of a face that goes on to be the focal point of a larger, more complex image. Lovecraft's stories are also mostly about these vast, inter-dimensional horrors that drive people mad, or require them to try to comprehend the incomprehensible, and so I wanted to provide a shadowy, somewhat occult, pitch-dark atmosphere, with people up close in the centre of things.
What’s your process like?
I work using 1800s woodcuts and engravings, of which I now have thousands from various markets, shops, and online finds, scanning them into Photoshop, where I collage them and add my own drawing to them, layering and manipulating them until I have an image that I hope looks as if it could have always existed.
Generally, I'll have a rough idea of what I want to make, or I'll have a single element from a print — a face, or a piece of landscape, or a texture — and will build the image around that, allowing the process of adding and removing whatever is found along the way until the picture “clicks,” and then it's a case of tightening up the whole until it works.
Once it's finished, I'll usually have it screen-printed. It's been interesting making work for a book, as usually I produce these images at a much larger size, so making work that is very intricate but that will work in a smaller size was an extra consideration.
Can you tell me a little about the mandalas and what they represent? How did you come up with these?
When we were putting together ideas for the limited edition, I noticed that the reverse of the illustrated pages are usually left blank, and suggested I could put together some abstract pieces that would fit with the book and add to the sense of it being something quite magical and dangerous.
I'd been working on some mandala-like abstract pieces for a solo show that I was putting together at the same time I was making the work for this book, and thought that with some jiggery-pokery, they would work nicely to fill the blank spaces and add another level of weird magick to the book.
The main aim I had for the limited edition was that it would look like a dark and dangerous object, or one of the various mysteriously hieroglyphed items that crop up in Lovecraft's work, or even something like the Necromomicon, which appears in several of his stories.
Photography by Andrew Liptak / The Verge
Yesterday was the day Google was expected to announce the big new features coming to Android this year. It had already announced some basics back in March, but the I/O conference is usually when we hear about the real highlights — the stuff consumers are actually going to look forward to. But the presentation came and went, and the most exciting thing Android got was app notification badges. Seriously.
Barring any secrets Google is hanging onto, there’s no denying that this is one of the outwardly duller Android releases in recent memory. But the fact that Android O is missing flashy features is in many ways a great thing for users of Google’s products: Google does have a ton of new features on the way — they’re just built into discrete apps instead of the operating system.
Android O new features:
If you zoom out from Android and look at the breadth of additions coming to Google’s apps this year, its presentation yesterday becomes far more compelling: there’s a camera that can analyze whatever it’s seeing, a photo tool that can remove objects from pictures, the ability to interact with apps and services by voice without ever installing them on your phone.
Were Google to play the game like Apple, all of these features would be inseparable from its operating system. But for Google, it’s far more important that people are using its apps and services wherever they are — Android, iOS, the desktop, or sitting in their living room. So instead of building these features into a release of Android that will take years to reach a majority of users (the latest release, Nougat, is on just seven percent of Android devices), Google’s biggest upgrades will go out to any device that can receive updates to Google Photos and the Google Assistant. And with Google Assistant now on iOS, that’s a huge number of phones.
This approach also stresses how important Google sees the Assistant becoming. Google is well aware that the Assistant may be the future of Google Search — a core way that people look up information. And the top features Google announced yesterday were about empowering the Assistant to help people look things up: the Google Lens lets the Assistant analyze objects just by pointing a camera at them, like looking up what flower you’re seeing, and new APIs for developers will let the Assistant automatically reach out to third parties to get even more things done.
These features would be exciting as additions to Android O. But they’re a much bigger deal broken off and included inside the Assistant. They build upon the core Google experience, and that’s something even more people will be able to take advantage of.
Google has also put a renewed priority on making sure that Android can run on a wide variety of devices, including on phones with basic specs and limited data access. Building data-hungry features like Lens directly into the operating system would complicate that goal. By separating these features from the OS itself, Google is able to maintain a simpler Android that’ll scale better across the diverse ecosystem of devices it’s hoping to see the operating system on, potentially building a better experience for people using a more-limited phone.
At the same time, the focus of this year’s Android release — what Google is calling your phone’s “vitals” — is dry but important positioning for the future. Google says it’s reworked the operating system so that everything runs faster and puts less strain on a device’s battery. In a test yesterday, my colleague saw a Pixel running the Android O beta boot up more than twice as fast as a Pixel running Nougat.
Perhaps the largest change to O is one we won’t even experience until the following release of Android: Google claims it’s going to be much easier for phone makers like Samsung and HTC to ship future Android updates to their customers. That’s one we’re really going to have to wait to see the results on — it can sometimes feel like there’s been an eternal promise to fix the issue of slow Android updates — but if Google makes a difference this time, that’d be one of the most impactful changes it could bring to Android.
This shifting focus to apps isn’t unique to Google, either. Apple largely had the same approach with iOS 10 last year — the only difference is that Apple’s apps are intrinsic to its operating system. Just look at the list of updates: an overhaul to Messages, new sorting features in Photos, third-party integrations with Siri. These are the same areas of focus, they’re just only available in one place.
The pace of operating system refinements is necessarily slowing now that Apple and Google have taken care of the basics. That doesn’t absolve them from finding new places to iterate and improve upon their platforms, but it does mean that the way we interact with their operating systems is bound to see fewer changes year to year. As Google’s showing, that can be completely fine: it’s able to have an even bigger impact on the way our phones are used by delivering some app updates instead.
SiriusXM is in talks to acquire Pandora, according to reports from CNBC and the New York Post. Given that SiriusXM’s parent company Liberty Media and Pandora have been in off and on discussions for over a year at this point, the talks aren’t surprising in the least. But it doesn’t mean a sale is imminent.
Last year, Liberty Media reportedly made a $3.4 billion bid to purchase Pandora, which was declined by the board of the streaming service, due to a disagreement on the valuation of Pandora. This time around, the two companies once again haven’t been able to agree on the value of the deal, according to both reports.
If a deal eventually gets done, there are questions as to what SiriusXM can offer Pandora besides a bit more cash. SiriusXM likely needs an on-demand streaming service as much as Pandora needs deeper pockets — as products like Android Auto and Apple CarPlay become more prevalent, more users will move away from traditional and satellite radio (SiriusXM) and rely on the apps on their phones (and thusly in their infotainment systems) like Apple Music, ESPN, and Pandora for their music and morning radio shows.
Given the constant chatting these two companies have kept up since last year, a deal is still possible, but if SiriusXM is looking to acquire Pandora at a reduced cost like its parent company tried to do last year, this may not be resolved anytime soon. Pandora’s CEO Tim Westergren nor its board seems to be in a discounting mood.
Pandora declined to comment.
Now that Google Assistant has officially arrived to the iPhone (at least, for US-based users) a lot of people may be wondering why Google pushed the AI as a separate app from the main one. Here’s an overview of the differences between the two.
While it’s not officially called “Google Search” (and rather, just its plain ol’ namesake), many people refer to it as such because that’s essentially what the app is designed for. iOS users can download the app to add a nice little search widget on their home screen, using it to quickly look up things as you would on the website.
You can search on Google Assistant too, but Google says it wanted to keep the two apps separate because some people may not want the AI capabilities if they’re already happy and used to Siri. You can argue that Siri is not the best for search (it defaults to Bing and Apple Maps for directions, for example) so keeping the Google app on hand is helpful for general queries, searches for nearby businesses, and quick updates like sports scores and movie showtimes. The Search app has also been continuously updated to provide search results basically instantaneously.
Where the Google Assistant comes in handy is personal preference-based requests. The AI is designed to be conversational, combining search queries with task completions. For example, if you asked what restaurants are nearby, you can select from the results and follow up with a request to book a reservation. You can also tell Google Assistant your favorite genre of movies, types of food, and even your family members’ or significant other’s names so it has a record of all this information in order to provide the most relevant responses.
The Assistant will also gain third-party Actions, which allows you to control smart home gadgets or order food deliveries without leaving the app or manually entering an address and credit card number.
Though Google Assistant is designed to take on Siri, there are several things it cannot do on an iPhone. For example, you can’t use it to take a screenshot and share it on the web like you could on an Android, ask it to take a selfie, or use it to set alarms. Requesting Google Assistant to make calls or send an iMessage works, but it’s a couple of steps longer than just using Siri. You also can’t easily wake Google Assistant with the “OK Google” voice command or holding the home button — instead, you have to launch the actual app or hold the microphone down from the widget. Google blames these limitations to the API it was given to port the Assistant to iOS.
Restrictions aside, once Google Lens arrives to the Assistant, you’ll have a much better contextual image search which includes things like taking a photo of the Wi-Fi router and automatically log in to the network, or hover the camera over a concert hall marquee to learn more about the band. It’s also going to bring on the Word Lens feature from the Translate app to help translate foreign languages. Siri can’t do all these things (not yet anyway) and neither can the iOS Google app.
With Google Lens, your smartphone camera won’t just see what you see, but will also understand what you see to help you take action. #io17 pic.twitter.com/viOmWFjqk1
If you’re already happy with using Siri as an assistant for search, setting reminders, booking reservations, and launching apps, you probably won’t need the Assistant on top of the additional Google Search app. (You also may not need the Search app at all, if you’re satisfied with just asking Siri to “Google” something.) But if things like HomeKit has been disappointing you with their limited ecosystems, or you want to combine better search with task requests, perhaps the Assistant is the better AI for you. Either way, Google wants to give you the option to stick with just search if that’s all you need it for on an iPhone.
To give Google Assistant a shot, you can download it from the App Store for free here.
Kickstarter announced the launch of a new program today, called Hardware Studio, that’s designed to help startups navigate the dizzying world of manufacturing. The studio is the result of a partnership with two companies: Avnet, a large electronic components distributor, and Dragon Innovation, which helps small teams develop production plans. The Hardware Studio won’t do everything for startups, but it’ll serve as a jumping off point for DIY creators who have an idea for a product but no clue where to start with manufacturing.
The program has two components: education and connection. Educating creators comes in the form of the Hardware Studio Toolkit, a new community site that’ll host tutorials, webinars, and tools from Avnet and Dragon. To participate in the second aspect — connection — creators will have to fill out an application in which they’ll likely just have to provide extra details on their projects. If Avnet or Dragon accept the application, these creators will have access to additional tools, like a product planner for helping keep track of their needed materials, as well as office hours with engineers. Accepted creators can also receive discounts for additional consultation time. In theory, Avnet and Dragon could take an idea and fully bring it to life through their manufacturing connections in China and marketing expertise. Some crowdfunding campaigns might not want to pay for that knowledge, but Kickstarter is sure they’ll at least want to check out the free offerings. Indiegogo provides a similar service through a partnership with Arrow Electronics and Riverwood Solutions.
Of course, this entire program is aimed at preventing Kickstarter meltdowns in which backers never receive a product after fronting some cash. Julio Terra, head of tech projects, told The Verge that many startups don’t realize that by just “selecting the wrong part, it can make [their] product fail or push it back six months.” Sure, the company can’t force anyone to take advantage of these resources or dish out money for consulting, but it can at least point them in the right direction. Still, Terra explained that he doesn’t see it as completely cutting out the risk of crowdfunding. Risk is fundamental to innovation, he says, but at the same time, he and Kickstarter want to maximize backers’ chance of getting a product [while] also [increasing] creators’ chance of succeeding.”
The moral here? You’ll definitely still want to think twice before backing a campaign, but at least Kickstarter recognizes backers’ gripes.
Several years ago, when Kenta Nakanishi’s father passed away, he left his son a handful of personal items. Among them was a copy of Fire Emblem Gaiden for the Nintendo Famicom. “I played it many times,” Nakanishi says, “and I have a strong attachment to the game.” Nakanishi ended up getting a job at Nintendo straight out of university in 2009, and after a few years he got a chance to work on the beloved strategy series, serving in a technical support role on Fire Emblem Awakening. More recently, he took on his first role as a director on Fire Emblem Echoes: Shadows of Valentia. But it’s not just a new game in the series — it’s a modern remake of Fire Emblem Gaiden. “It made me love the game even more,” he says of working on the new version.
Fire Emblem Echoes launches tomorrow on the Nintendo 3DS, and for Nakanishi and the developers at Nintendo and Intelligent Systems, it’s a chance to introduce an entirely new audience to the original game. Fire Emblem Gaiden debuted on the Famicom in 1992, and in the ensuing years was never released outside of Japan. But since then, the series has grown in global popularity quite a bit. 2017 in particular feels like a breakout moment for the franchise. Earlier this year Fire Emblem Heroes debuted on mobile, becoming even more lucrative than Super Mario Run, while later this year will see the launch of spin-off Fire Emblem Warriors on Nintendo Switch. A second, currently untitled Switch game is also scheduled for next year.
As a 25-year-old game, Fire Emblem Gaiden needed to be updated in a number of ways to make it more accessible for a modern audience. Fire Emblem Echoes features enhanced graphics, 3D dungeons to explore, and more interactive towns where you can talk to characters and learn more about the world. Many of the changes were made because of the fan response to more recent games in the series — namely that Fire Emblem fans get really attached to characters. Echoes features a much more in-depth narrative (the original actually relegated key story moments to the instruction manual), while introducing new characters and fully-voiced dialogue, a first for the series. Japanese illustrator Hidari, also known under the pseudonym “Left Side,” was brought on board to make more appealing character designs.
The biggest challenge was balancing the addition of these new features with maintaining the essence of the original experience. “We wanted to take the original RPG elements from Gaiden,” explains Toshiyuki Kusakihara, director at Intelligent Systems, “and make it more modern and deeper.” Nakanishi adds that “One of the things that was hard for us, was [deciding] how much of the original elements to leave.” Gaiden includes several features that are unique among Fire Emblem games. Casting magic spells will reduce your health, for instance, while at the end of each dungeon you’ll find a stat-increasing shrine. The series has largely moved on from these elements in subsequent games, but those two features in particular were left in Echoes to retain some of the feeling of the original.
Of course, for fans outside of Japan, Echoes is essentially a brand new game. And because of this it was designed to be more approachable for players who are new to the game or the series. Echoes introduces an optional casual mode that eases up the difficulty, while the name of the game itself was changed so that those unfamiliar with Gaiden wouldn’t be confused. “Because it wasn’t released outside of Japan, and gaiden means side story, people would think ‘What is the side story for?’” says Nakanishi. “So we thought we’d come up with a new title.”
Fire Emblem Gaiden isn’t the only game in the franchise to never make it outside of Japan. In fact, it wasn’t until 2003’s Fire Emblem on Game Boy Advance, the seventh entry in the series, that a main Fire Emblem game launched overseas. Two years prior to that, though, Fire Emblem: Binding Blade star Roy was featured in Nintendo’s global fighting game hit Super Smash Bros. Melee on the GameCube, igniting some early interest in the series. Nintendo hasn’t announced any further remakes for the future — but if Nakanishi had to pick, he knows what game he’d choose. “Unfortunately his story has never been told,” he says of Roy, “so it would be great if we could release a remake of his story.”
Walk into any McDonald’s in the world and, other than some localized decorations and special menu items, it’s essentially the same thing as any other: same burgers, same fries, same macronutrient (im)balance, same standards of cleanliness and speed of service. That’s the goal, anyway, and our expectations of globalized services of this kind can be summarized in one word: consistency. Well, having spent the better part of a week in Silicon Valley to cover Google I/O, let me tell you, Uber is not one of these consistent operators. Not even close.
In my native Europe, hailing a ride via Uber takes a few minutes. This makes sense, because not every car on the road is an Uber driver, and not every Uber driver is free to respond to my whims. In Palo Alto, on other hand, Ubers arrive within seconds. Same for San Francisco, which seems to have completely abandoned the concept of conventional taxis in favor of a fleet of supposedly self-employed Uberinos. It’s simultaneously bewildering and seductive.
Seductive because it’s a frightfully responsive, almost instant, service, the likes of which I’d never previously experienced. I can see why people stick with it, even through all the awfulness of its internal culture and the boorish behavior of its CEO. Though my experience was only anecdotal, the extreme nature of what I saw was striking. Seeing Uber operating in its native environment, I witnessed small groups of two or three people systematically jumping into unmarked cars on every San Francisco street corner. I’m willing to bet that a substantial proportion of Silicon Valley productivity has grown dependent on Uber as the primary means of transportation.
Sitting in my home office in London, I was one of the people scratching his head at Uber’s stratospheric, multibillion-dollar valuation at a time when the company is still losing money at a scary rate. But now that I’m here in the extraordinarily wealthy tech capital of the world, observing how instrumental Uber has become to people’s lives, I get it. I absolutely don’t agree with it, and I’m not at all proud to still be using Uber myself, but I can understand why Uber is valued so highly by the people residing in Silicon Valley. This, the ultimate in bubble communities, receives and appreciates an Uber service that is alien to the rest of us.
The bewildering part, of course, has to do with the sheer amount of human resources required to make something like this work.
And it seems like that’s what Uber has. The technology is certainly no different, I’m still using the same app that I’ve used in practically every European capital, but the speed is an order of magnitude greater. I don’t know how anyone else feels about this, but it makes me a little queasy to think that there are that many people tasked with the mindless job of ferrying privileged tech types around.
Though I’ve been most perturbed by the stark disparity between the European and American Uber experience, that’s not to say that there aren’t differences on a more local level as well. Denmark has kicked Uber out, Portugal, Spain, and Italy have set up an anti-Uber taxi alliance, and hailing an Uber in Switzerland is a borderline illegal affair. I can’t catch an Uber in Barcelona, it’s a little tricky in Berlin, but I can find one quite easily in London or Paris.
I don’t know that there’s any great moral to this story, other than the observation that complex things can and do vary with geographies and cultures. Perhaps if Uber would commit to treating its drivers as employees, it could institute more universal standards — both of availability and quality of service, which is also all over the place — but the company seems likely to develop driverless cars sooner than it admits to the reality of its employment situation.
In any case, for those of us judging Uber on the basis of what it’s like in our local city or conurbation, I have to say that we don’t really know the true Uber. For that, you’d have to go right to the Silicon Valley source.
After getting a peek from Travis Kalanick earlier this month, Uber today officially launched Uber Freight, the company’s new service that will match truckers with companies who need cargo shipped across the country.
Uber Freight has its own app, of course, which is available today on iOS and Android. There’s a sign-up page for drivers, who will be vetted before they’re allowed to use the Uber Freight. The service “take[s] guesswork out of finding and booking freight, which is often the most stressful part of a driver’s day,” according to Uber, which says it’s dismantling a process that typically takes “several hours and multiple phone calls.”
The video Uber released makes the process look as simple as using its existing cab service. The app is full of a list of available jobs and the routes they require (say, Tulsa, OK to Memphis, TN), and each listing tells the driver what they’ll be hauling and how much they’ll be paid. Once they arrive in that destination and make the delivery they can then, like an Uber cab driver, find the next job.
Uber says that Uber Freight will help “level the playing field” for truckers, perhaps hinting at the inequality that plagues the trucking industry. Trucking is dominated by white men, and accounts of women and drivers of color facing discrimination while trying to break into the workforce are well documented. The biggest point of friction in these situations is building and maintaining relationships with the companies that hire drivers, so a service like the one Uber is offering could help alleviate that tension.
But because trucking is so physically demanding and time consuming, it typically requires lots of planning and budget monitoring on the part of the driver. As an Uber taxi driver, it might be fine if you drop a passenger off in a neighborhood with no return trips. That’s a much bigger problem if you’ve just driven 1,500 miles from home.
Uber’s not the only company trying to change the trucking industry. Amazon is reportedly working on a similar service that would pair drivers with companies that need goods delivered. Manufacturers big and small are also working on bringing semi-or fully-autonomous technology to long haul trucks.
Uber, of course, is also working on self-driving trucks following its acquisition of Otto. But while Otto may be at the core of Uber’s trucking ambitions, it’s also the center of the lawsuit filed by Waymo, the self-driving car division of Google’s parent company Alphabet. Waymo claims that Anthony Levandowski, a former Google engineer who founded the Otto, was using the startup as a shell company in order to steal Google’s self-driving tech and pass it on to Uber. That case is currently set to go to trial.

Our news week edition of Ctrl-Walt-Delete continues! Google I/O 2017 kicked off on Wednesday, and we recorded this week's episode of Ctrl-Walt-Delete immediately after the opening keynote to get it in to the episode for you. There was a lot that happened so Walt and Nilay break it down for you.
Also, the duo talk a little bit about the Windows hack that was leaked from the NSA and what this could mean for Microsoft and software updates in the future.
We love your feedback on the topics of the show and suggestions on how to make our podcasts better and more fun. You can tweet at Walt at @waltmossberg and Nilay at @reckless. And of course, we'd love it if you subscribed on iTunes (here's the direct RSS feed, if you like), along with The Verge's other podcasts The Vergecast and Verge Extras. You might also want to check out Recode Decode, hosted by Kara Swisher, and Too Embarrassed to Ask featuring The Verge's Lauren Goode.
And hey, have Ctrl-Walt-Delete T-shirts! Check out our merch store here.
Cameras are everywhere yet nowhere at the same time. Nobody buys cameras anymore. Instead we use the good-enough camera that comes as standard equipment on our phones, which these days is pretty damn good. Nevertheless, you’ll still have to accessorize the hell out of it to make your pics pop and your videos sing as beautifully as dedicated shooters. That means snap-on lenses, battery cases, selfie flashes, and external storage, to name but a few. The 3-axis gimbal is perhaps the most audacious cameraphone accessory, with prices starting at about $300. At least that was before an upstart named Rigiet hit Kickstarter with a gimbal for half that price, yet still claims to be the "most advanced stabilizer" in the world.
Rigiet is a stabilizing 3-axis gimbal that works with most GoPro cameras (via adapter) and phones with screen sizes up to about 5.5-inches. It's very similar to the Osmo Mobile from DJI in that it dramatically smooths and automates your handheld video production. It features seven shooting modes including Auto Tracking, which uses computer vision to follow an onscreen object, and Motion Time Lapse to create dramatic time lapses as the camera pans across a scene.
Last night's sunset captured with Rigiet motion time lapse
A post shared by Trixxy (@trixxy) on May 7, 2017 at 4:23am PDT
As a first time gimbal user, I have to admit to being easily impressed by what the Rigiet can do. The onboard optical image stabilization of my iPhone has nothing on a 3-axis gimbal, especially gimbals with computer vision software and advanced shooting modes. But that praise can be lavished equally on the DJI Osmo Mobile as well.
The price is what makes this gimbal a standout accessory. It has most every advanced hardware and software feature you'll find on the $299 DJI Osmo Mobile, but lists on Kickstarter for just $144 (the $129 super early bird levels are gone) and includes a GoPro mount. Rigiet will cost $229 after the campaign.
Rigiet also features two microUSB jacks that allow you simultaneously charge your phone and the Rigiet from an external power source like a portable battery. It's a bit of a kludge that requires a couple of microUSB cables dangling off the stick, but it lets your shoot all day long, or at least until your phone's on-board storage is depleted.
Yeah, my pre-production unit is pretty good. But I have a long list of nitpicks, none of which are deal breakers given the price:
Is it the "most advanced stabilizer" on the market. No. But Rigiet does achieve parity with the most popular features out there which is saying something at this price.
Yeah, I am happier actually. I'm happy that my kids and their friends are thrilled by the "professional skater videos" (as they call them) I'm able to produce while running beside them:
Handheld iPhone on left vs iPhone held by Rigiet gimbal (with @jannikslagter)
A post shared by Trixxy (@trixxy) on May 5, 2017 at 4:02am PDT
And I can't help but enthuse over the ability to lock onto subjects, allowing me to leave the camera unattended to join the action (and yes it’ll lock onto your face too for those longing for YouTube vlogging stardom):
Testing Rigiet auto tracking when locked on my daughter.
A post shared by Trixxy (@trixxy) on May 6, 2017 at 10:52pm PDT
And motion time lapses have upped my Instagram game considerably:
Testing a Rigiet gimbal
A post shared by Trixxy (@trixxy) on May 2, 2017 at 8:49am PDT
If the question is, should everyone with a smartphone buy a 3-axis stabilizer then I'd have to say no. But if you don't own a dedicated camera, and you've got $150 to burn, and you can put up with my nitpicks above then hells yes, buy a Rigiet. It packs a lot of punch for not much money compared to the other smartphone gimbals on the market. And as an accessory, it'll work with your current phone and your friend's phone and most likely your next phone for years to come which is something you can't say about most smartphone accessories.
Last night Nintendo revealed some new details on two of its big upcoming Switch games, Arms and Splatoon 2. But mixed amongst the story trailers and new character reveals was some bright, colorful new hardware. The Splatoon-themed, neon pink-and-green options include both a pair of Joy-Con controllers, and the sleek Pro Controller. There’s also a similarly-themed Switch carrying case, complete with lots of squid graphics.
Unfortunately, right now the options have only been announced for Japan and Europe — there’s no word on a release in North America. The accessories will be launching on July 21st, the same day Splatoon 2 releases on Switch, and in Japan you’ll be able to get the game and Joy-Con as part of a console bundle. For those in North America looking for a colorful new Joy-Con, there are other options. In June, Nintendo is releasing a bright yellow option to go along with the launch of Arms.
We’ve known it was coming for a while, but Microsoft has added Shoulder Tap to the latest Windows 10 Insider Preview build. Originally planned for the Windows 10 Creators Update, Shoulder Tap will cause a giant, animated version of an emoji to pop up over your taskbar if one of your pinned contacts sends you one through Skype.
Microsoft removed the Shoulder Tap gif from their post that exposed a new gear button in the Taskbar pic.twitter.com/W4iCxPnUbS
You can see how the feature works in the above GIF via Rafael Rivera, which was originally posted by Microsoft before getting pulled, presumably due to the unannounced gear icon that the GIF shows (the function of that icon is still unknown.)
And if you’re not a fan of having your computer overwhelmed by giant emoji every time your friend sends you one, don’t worry — you can toggle Shoulder Tap off.
Lots of ideas for receiving the benefits of exercise without actually, you know, exercising have come and gone in the last 50 years. So it’s worth being a little skeptical about this one: mice, when given a certain molecule, could run 100 minutes longer without any training.
The usual caveats apply: this is a mouse study, and we haven’t tested the drug in humans. But scientists hope that this compound — called GW1516, or GW for short — can be turned into a medicine that provides benefits for people who have trouble exercising. (By this, they mean people who have heart conditions or other physical limitations, not just the lazy among us.)
Plastic-eating caterpillars could solve our trash problem.
A new place to follow smart science coverage that isn’t overhyped and overblown.
What’s exciting here, though, is that GW comes from our knowledge of genetics. See, scientists already know that it’s possible to genetically engineer mice to run a lot longer than normal mice without getting tired. Activating this gene, called PPAR delta, has other benefits, too. It’s harder for these mice to gain weight, and they respond well to insulin — so they’re less likely to become diabetic. All of these are benefits of being fit, because normal exercise activates PPAR, too. But you can’t run around genetically engineering a hyper-fit population — so figuring out how to get the benefits from a drug is clutch. In a study published today in the journal Cell Metabolism, scientists injected mice with GW for eight weeks. The compound activated the PPAR gene, and the mice treated with it got benefits just like the genetically engineered ones did.
All of the mice used in the experiment were sedentary, and the scientists first gave them tests to see how long they could run without getting exhausted; they defined “exhaustion” as blood sugar dropping below a certain level. By the end, mice in the control group ran about 160 minutes before they became exhausted. But mice who took the drug could run for 270 minutes.
The team also took a look at other differences in the mice who got the molecule versus the ones who didn’t. Genes that break down fat for energy did more work in the mice with GW. At the same time, genes that beak down carbs for energy did less work. This makes sense, because it’s exactly what happens in real life: the bodies of really fit people typically burn fat for fuel instead of carbs.
All this said, the mice that took the molecule didn’t have any better muscles than the ones that didn’t, so it seems like the benefits come from changing how their body breaks down energy. It’s all early days for this research, but if this finding pans out in humans, it could be very good news for people who are sick and very bad news for gyms.
This story was originally published on May 2, 2017 and has been updated with video.

OnePlus has announced that it’s partnering with DxO to improve the cameras in the upcoming OnePlus 5.
DxO is perhaps best known for the DxOMark benchmarking test that remains one of the most commonly cited metrics for camera performance on a smartphone (even though it’s important to remember that benchmarks never tell the full story), along with developing several pieces of professional photography software. But the company also has hardware experience in the DxO One, a well-regarded camera that slots directly into the Lightning port on an iPhone to offer improved pictures than the built-in camera.
OnePlus and DxO aren’t offering any details as to the nature of the collaboration, or even whether DxO is contributing to the hardware or software components of the OnePlus 5’s camera .A cynical-minded person could look at the partnership as OnePlus looking to ensure it scores highly on the DxOMark test — which OnePlus’s announcement does specifically call it out by name — but we don’t know that for sure.
We’ll presumably find out more soon though, given that the OnePlus 5 is expected to launch sometime this summer.
Variety reports that Netflix has put down nearly $20 million at the Cannes Film Festival for the worldwide rights to Bubbles, a stop-motion animated film about Michael Jackson’s pet chimpanzee.
The film was co-directed by Taika Waititi (The Hunt for the Wilderpeople, Thor: Ragnarok) and Mark Gustafson (The Fantastic Mr. Fox, Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio), from a script by unknown screenwriter Isaac Adamson that ranked near the top of Hollywood’s 2015 Black List.
Bubbles was produced by Dan Harmon’s Starburns Industries, which also financed the stop-motion dramedy Anomalisa — a Best Animated Feature nominee at the 2015 Academy Awards.
This is just the start of Netflix’s big week at Cannes — its first competition film, Bong Joon-ho’s Okja, premieres tomorrow, followed by Noah Baumbach’s The Meyerowitz Stories on Sunday. The streaming platform will likely do some more shopping as well, as it has made a tradition of at all the major film festivals at this point: at Sundance this year, Netflix nabbed 14 new features for its service, and at the Toronto International Film Festival last fall it bought eight.

Nvidia has a new graphics card out, the GT 1030 — and unlike pricier options, it starts at just $69.99, or just one-tenth of the $699 price tag that the company’s monster GTX 1080 Ti commands. The news was first spotted by VentureBeat.
The goal of the GT 1030 is to provide a cheaper, less powerful graphics card for gamers looking to get into competitive play on a budget. As such, it offers relatively weak specs — 2GB of onboard memory, and a core clock speed of 1265 MHz (which can boost to 1518 MHz). But that’s enough to run a wide range of popular e-sport games — including Dota 2, Rocket League, Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, or League of Legends — perfectly well.
The GT 1030 isn’t the first cheap e-sports focused card either. As VentureBeat notes, the GT 1030 will directly compete with AMD’s $79.99 Radeon RX 550, which is a similarly priced and specced budget GPU designed for e-sport play.
While most gamers would obviously prefer to get their hands on the most powerful graphics cards they can, the reality is that unless you’re trying to run something like Battlefield 1 or Deus Ex: Mankind Divided at 4K, you can probably get away with something a little cheaper. Especially when it comes to e-sports titles, which tend to be less demanding when it comes to system resources.
The GT1030 is available now from a variety of PC part supplies, including Zotac, MSI, and Gigabyte, starting at $69.99.
Today, Amazon is launching a new bestseller list called Amazon Charts, which will track the top 20 books that have sold the best on any given week and the 20 books being read the most.
While Amazon already has a number of hourly bestseller lists across a broad range of genres, this list will provide a more stable snapshot of the week’s bestselling and best-read books. The list will be broken into two broad categories: the top 20 books read and purchased in fiction and in nonfiction. The list will incorporate data from three places: physical books bought through the site’s storefront, Kindle books, and Audible audiobooks. The list will track the sales, borrows, and preorders, in an attempt to present a look at what Amazon’s customers are reading.
The team stressed that this list wasn’t going to replace the numerous hourly lists present on the site that get broken down by category. Rather, this new list will provide a week-long snapshot of sales and reading data.
Bestseller lists are a huge tool used by readers and publishers alike. Major lists like those found in The New York Times, LA Times, and other publications can lead to huge exposure and new sales for authors. These lists are important, especially in specific categories, because of the exposure they bring. The New York Times recently culled its bestseller lists down to 14 categories, prompting outcry from authors and publishers alike. The team behind Charts notes that Amazon’s list will likewise be useful to publishers, and includes some specific data, like an author’s agent, alongside the books on the list.
Charts is also an opportunity for Amazon to utilize what it describes as a purely data-driven list, eschewing the editorial latitude that some lists have by presenting a list that’s driven entirely by sales and reading data, compiled from the data the Kindle and Audible users generate. The list won’t pull information from the book social network Goodreads, which Amazon owns. Charts also won’t work with existing systems that track sales data, like Nielsen’s BookScan, instead opting to use its own data. “Many well-known bestseller lists today add, remove, or re-rank books based on editorial considerations and customers have asked for a bestseller list that is based on reading engagement and sales data,” David Naggar, Amazon’s vice president says, “rather than an opinion-based list of what books they should be paying attention to.”
Removing the editorial consideration out of the list could have its drawbacks, however. There’s been examples of where lists dependent upon data have backfired, such as what happened to Facebook’s Trending Topics after the company fired its editors for the section last year. Amazon appears to hope that the sheer volume of data will make gaming the list difficult, but it’s not clear if there’s safeguards in place for identifying obvious attempts to artificially change the list’s rankings.
The raw-data approach means that Charts will look slightly different from other bestseller lists out there: it won’t include the broader snapshot of sales across the bookselling ecosystem, such as what are sold at physical brick-and-mortar bookstores like Barnes & Noble. There are some usual suspects present on the list at launch: Atwood’s The Handmaid’s Tale, J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter series, Stephen King’s IT, in addition to the current hot books, like Paula Hawkin’s Into the Water. But Amazon’s data picked up Beneath a Scarlet Sky by Mark Sullivan, which appeared on Charts, but not others.
The data also allows Amazon to insert some features that are pretty unique. Some entries on the list will be labeled as “unputdownable,” based on how fast readers read the entire book relative to the others on the list. Other labels include where a book is most popular, and it’ll also provide the book’s customer rating and links to reviews, sample chapters, and of course, an option to add the book to your shopping card.

In March developer Bungie finally revealed some details about Destiny 2, providing a glimpse at the story, while also announcing that it would launch on September 8th on PS4, Xbox One, and — in a series first — PC. What we didn’t get to see was the game itself.
That changes today, as Bungie is hosting a live stream event to officially unveil gameplay from Destiny 2. The stream kicks off today at 10AM PST / 1PM EST, and will come to you live from an airport hangar in California. You can check it out either on Bungie’s site or Twitch channel. The Verge will also be live at the event bringing hands-on impressions and details.
In addition to the game itself, expect to also see a number of partners as well. Bungie previously revealed that it’s working with a range of companies to produce new Destiny merchandise, including art books from Insight Editions, gaming peripherals from Razer, and action figures from the likes of Mcfarlane Toys, ThreeA, and, yes, Funko.
As a refresher, here’s the reveal trailer from March:
Mercedes-Benz has tapped Utah-based solar company Vivint Solar to bring its home battery storage solution to the United States for the first time. Vivint will start selling the Mercedes home batteries to new customers only in California in the second quarter of this year.
Mercedes splits up its home batteries differently from Tesla, its most visible competitor in this space, though they’re functionally the same — the batteries let homeowners store and save electricity generated by solar panels so it can be used   around the clock. Tesla’s $5,500 Powerwall 2 has a 13.5kWh capacity, and customers can buy up to 10 of those to scale to their needs. Mercedes’ home batteries, on the other hand, have a smaller capacity of 2.5kWh, and customers can scale a total of eight of them for a more modest 20kWh.
Vivint’s offerings will be cheaper, though. The company plans to sell a basic package of a 2.5kWh for $5,000 when paired with solar panels, while the complete 20kWh system will run around $13,000, including installation.
Mercedes-Benz Energy Americas CEO Boris von Bormann says he’s not worried about competition or comparisons to Tesla. “The market is big enough that there are several companies in this space that can coexist and do really well, so there’s not a need for a shark mentality out there to grab market share from others,” von Bormann tells The Verge.
Vivint Solar has been around since 2011, but never expanded beyond solar panels and, through a sister company, smart home installations. “I wasn’t interested in the chemistry associated with doing energy storage,” Vivint Solar CEO David Bywater tells The Verge. “So we talked to a whole bunch of companies, and through this process we felt very strongly that Mercedes-Benz was the right partner for us.”
Von Bormann feels the same way. Mercedes’ parent company Daimler has been selling its home batteries in Germany and the UK after announcing the product in 2015. But Mercedes was waiting for “a partner that has a national footprint that has a high quality standard in their installation and in the way they present the company” in the US, which von Bormann calls a “key market.”
Both von Bormann and Bywater think their companies can take advantage of the growing interest in solar energy despite the uncertainty the new administration has brought to the industry. President Donald Trump recently signed an executive order to roll back the Clean Power Plan in favor of emphasizing coal, and another that could expand offshore drilling for oil and gas. His energy plan doesn’t mention solar or other renewable energy sources, and his administration’s 2018 budget proposal includes deep cuts to related agencies, like the one that helped drive down the cost of solar in the first place. It’s not exactly the friendliest time or place to launch a home storage solution for solar panels.
“Will there be some [negative] influence by the current administration? Obviously. Hopefully not to the point that it hinders the industry,” von Bormann says. But he thinks recent evidence of broad (and in some cases bipartisan) support of solar is a sign that the market’s growth can’t be stopped. “Solar makes sense. No matter where you stand on which side of the aisle, hopefully, at some point, sense prevails.”
Correction: An earlier version of this story stated that the 2.5kWh battery’s $5,000 would include solar panels. A representative for Vivint has clarified that the price of the panels are not included in that package.
AMD has announced some more Ryzen processors set to hit later this year, including mobile-focused Ryzen processors for laptops, the Ryzen “Threadripper” for high-end desktop PCs, and a budget Ryzen 3 line, as noted by Liliputing.
The first Ryzen processors were released by AMD earlier this year, and were seen a major leap forward for the company’s CPU offerings that actually managed to offer meaningful competition for Intel’s popular Core i5 and i7 models when it came to both price and performance.
The mobile Ryzen line, codenamed “Raven Ridge,” will be what AMD calls an APU — an “accelerated processing unit,” which combines a CPU and an integrated GPU into a single chip (similar to how Intel CPUs offer integrated Intel HD graphics). Like the desktop Ryzen processors, the mobile CPU components will be four-core, 8-thread chips based on the same “Zen” architecture. AMD expects to see the mobile Ryzen APUs in a variety of laptop form factors, ranging from ultraportables to gaming machines in the second half of 2017.
At the other end of the spectrum is the upcoming Ryzen Threadripper, set to release in the summer. It still has the same Zen architecture as the rest of the Ryzen line, but the Threadripper will be a CPU with up to 16-cores and 32-threads — for comparison, the high end Ryzen 7 offers has eight cores and 16 threads. There’s no word on price yet for the Threadripper, but given the high-end nature of the processor, it probably won’t be cheap.
Lastly, AMD confirmed that the budget Ryzen 3 processors are still planned for later in 2017. The Ryzen 3 is meant to fill in the lower end of the product lineup, and compete with Intel’s Core i3 chips — much as the Ryzen 5 is meant to compete with Intel’s Core i5 models, and the Ryzen 7 to compete with Core i7 processors.
VanMoof, the electric bicycle company that impressed us last year with its speedy and stylish Electrified S, is releasing a new model designed specifically for Tokyo. The Electrified X is more compact than the S, with smaller wheels and an all-new frame that retains all of VanMoof’s smart features like pedal assist and anti-theft location tracking.
Tokyo is a geographically huge city, but at street level things are often on a smaller scale than you’d expect.  “Everything here is more compact,” VanMoof CEO and co-founder Ties Carlier tells me at the company’s new pop-up store in Harajuku. “Apartments are smaller, cars are smaller, even the roads are tinier. So with that in mind, we thought we’d need a bike that’s also more compact. I just knew there had to be a way to get that same technology and that same VanMoof feeling we have into a new design that will fit a city like Tokyo.”
The most common types of bike seen in Tokyo, however, are the oversized clunkers known as mamachari, which more or less means “mom’s bike.” These are big, utilitarian rides that usually have 26-inch wheels — the Electrified S has even bigger 28-inch wheels — and tend to be used for shopping or transporting kids. You don’t have to spend more than $100 or so on a non-electric mamachari, and their popularity among all sorts of people suggests Tokyo residents aren’t opposed to big bicycles. But VanMoof believes the Electrified X, with its range of up to 120 kilometers (75 miles), will be used in an entirely different way.
“Actually electric bikes are already very big here — people love to ride them,” Carlier says. “But I think the big difference there, and what’s super interesting to me, is that they’re used for very short distances. It’s usually a mamachari used within the same neighborhood — it’s very rare that someone rides it outside the neighbourhood to work or further away. That’s a bit of a shame, I think, and that’s what our bike is perfect for. That 5- or 10-kilometer ride a day, you’re faster than a car or any other transportation, basically, and it makes it so much more fun. The fun part is the most important thing, I think. With my commute in Taipei or Tokyo or Amsterdam, this bike is the best part of my day.”
That might sound hyperbolic, but after taking the Electrified X for an hour-long spin around Tokyo yesterday, I can believe it. The bike is just a total blast to ride. With a top speed of 24 kph (15 mph) it’s a little slower than the Electrified S, but I didn’t mind. The 250-350-watt front-wheel motor makes pedaling up inclines effortless, and there’s a boost button that gives you an extra burst of speed and feels like using a mushroom power-up in Mario Kart. Before I knew it I was approaching Takadanobaba, way north of Shinjuku, and I hadn’t even thought to check where I was going.
At six foot four, I’m a lot taller than most Japanese people, but I still found the Electrified X to fit me fine. The other popular bicycle wheel size in Japan is 20 inches, which pretty much feels like a BMX to me, but a 26-inch mamachari is too ungainly; the 24-inch Electrified X really does find a comfortable middle ground. It’s not so small that you feel ridiculous trying to go at top speed on the road, but when you do ride on the sidewalk — as almost everyone does in Japan — it’s compact enough to get out of the way. And since you don’t need to change down gears or pedal hard to start up again after stopping, it’s a lot less frustrating to ride alongside obstacles and pedestrians.
“I think with this bike you can ride on the road,” says Carlier “It’s fast, and it should be okay — I do it and it feels much safer. I think the mamacharis you’ll see on the pavement, but the rest like you and me, young professionals will ride on the road. I think it’s the right place for a bicycle.” Carlier does, however, hope that Tokyo will develop more bike lanes in the future — right now there are barely any — and says this may form part of Tokyo’s redevelopment in the run-up to the 2020 Olympics.
Could the Electrified X really be faster than commuter transportation? I have my doubts here in Tokyo, unless you have a particularly convoluted commute. But Carlier claims he rode his Electrified X right out the door from Haneda airport and arrived at his Airbnb an hour faster than his colleague who took the train. “Not only that,” he says, “my colleague arrived tired and stressed from the Metro after walking and with all these direction, and I came with a smile on my face — I had a beautiful ride through the city.”
“The most important thing is that the electric bike opens up the city. In Amsterdam people know it’s the best way to get around, but that’s because it’s a small city and everything’s within a 20-minute ride. I do think Tokyo’s the perfect city to show that electric bikes can open up the city. The public transport here is considered to be good, and it is, of course — but is it a nice part of your day?”
VanMoof is taking orders for the Electrified X in Japan from Tuesday next week. It’ll cost 370,000 yen (about $3,320), though preorders will be available for 270,000 yen ($2,420) for a limited time. This price includes a two-year warranty along with VanMoof’s “bike hunter” service, which promises to either track down or replace your stolen bike within two weeks. As for a release for the Electrified X outside Japan? Nothing’s planned right now, but it could be in the cards.
“It was really designed with Tokyo in mind, but we’ve shown it to people in the US and Europe and a lot of people love it — I think potentially we could bring it to other countries too.” Carlier says. “The weird thing is, it’s actually become my favorite bike. I love the big one, but now I’m riding this one and it fits my size perfectly too.”
Carlier is a couple of inches taller than me, even. If he’s right about the Electrified X, VanMoof may just have made its most universally appealing bike yet.

Okja, the latest film from Snowpiercer director Bong Joon-ho, will premiere at the Cannes film festival this week, and ahead of its debut, Netflix debuted a new trailer that shows the creature at the heart of the film in its full glory.
Okja is about a woman named Mija (Ahn Seo-hyun), who befriends the titular creature. We’ve only had glimpses of Okja in earlier footage, but now that we’ve seen it in action, the film doesn’t really look like a monster movie at all. It looks like Tilda Swinton’s character has designed Okja to be an edible solution for a hungry world. Her super-pigs, she explains, are beautiful, eat less food and produce less waste than other livestock, and most importantly, they “taste fucking good.” But when Mija and Okja are separated, Mija teams up with a group of animal-rights activists, and their rescue mission throws a wrench in Swinton’s plans.
The film will get a limited theatrical release in the United States after its June 28th debut on Netflix.
American and European officials met in Brussels yesterday to discuss the Trump administration’s proposed ban on laptops and tablets on trans-Atlantic flights, and according to reports, the measure won’t be implemented anytime soon.
The BBC reported Wednesday that officials from the US and EU “decided against” the ban following yesterday’s meeting, though “other measures” are still under consideration. An unnamed official told the Associated Press that the proposal is “off the table” for the time being. Officials are due to meet again next week in Washington, DC.
The proposed measure, as reported earlier this month, would expand an electronics ban currently in place on certain US-bound flights from eight majority-Muslim countries. The current measure prohibits travelers from bringing any devices that are “larger than a smartphone” as carry-on items. The UK announced a similar ban in March that affects flights from six countries.
US officials have defended the ban as a measure to thwart terrorist attacks, saying that intelligence shows that ISIS is developing smaller bombs that could be concealed in electronic devices. But the airline industry has pushed back, warning that expanding the electronics ban to Europe would result in higher costs and new security threats.
The International Air Transport Association (IATA) said this week that such an expansion would cost passengers $1.1 billion a year due to longer travel times and lost productivity. The IATA also said the measure would mark a dramatic expansion of the ban currently in place, impacting an estimated 390 flights a day. The current ban affects 350 flights a week, the IATA said.
In a letter to the US Department of Homeland Security and the European Commission, IATA Director General Alexandre de Juniac called on officials to explore “alternative measures,” including better bomb detection technology and behavioral screening. De Juniac also said that storing electronics in a plane’s cargo area could increase the risk of lithium-ion batteries catching fire, as reported by Reuters.
A joint statement from the European Commission and the Department of Homeland Security said officials will meet again next week in Washington, DC “to further assess shared risks and solutions for protecting airline passengers, whilst ensuring the smooth functioning of global air travel.”


YouTube is making it easier for users to start live-streaming on mobile devices. According to a report from Android Police, the video site is dropping a requirement that means users have to have more than 1,000 subscribers before they “Go Live” via a phone or tablet. The company previously dropped this subscriber-count requirement down to 1,000 from 10,000 in April.
The change hasn’t yet been confirmed by YouTube or Google and doesn’t appear to be showing up for everyone, but will likely roll out over the coming days. It’s important to note also that this doesn’t meant just anyone can start live-streaming from a mobile device — you’ll still need to have a verified channel and no live stream restrictions in the last 90 days to qualify.
UPDATE: A YouTube spokesperson reached out to The Verge to say the report from Android Police was incorrect. “We've been experimenting and expanding mobile live streaming for almost a year now. However, it is still only available to a relatively small subset of users.”
600 Gogoro Smartscooters are coming to Paris this summer as part of the Coup eScooter sharing service. Coup, a subsidiary of Bosch, first launched the scooter sharing service in Berlin with 200 Gogoro electric scooters in 2016. It expanded to 1,000 scooters less than a year later. It’ll be going up against the Cityscoot service which launched in Paris last summer with 150 electric scooters.
Coup requires a Class B (for normal cars) or international driver's license — you don't need a motorcycle license. The Coup app for iOS and Android lets you locate and reserve the closest scooter parked in dedicated two-wheel parking zones around select districts of central Paris. Coup cost €3 for 30 minutes of riding or €20 for a full day. Insurance is baked right into the rate.
It's no secret that The Verge staff has a crush on Gogogo's electric scooters ever since their unveiling in 2015. But so far, they've only been on sale in their home city of Taiwan. Through Coup, Gogoro is hoping to get its delightful little people movers into more cities without the hassle of ownership.
“Gogoro and Coup are focused on delivering new services that encourage consumer adoption of more sustainable transportation choices like the Smartscooter. The Coup e-scooter sharing model has been proven successful in Berlin and we are looking forward to introducing it in Paris this summer with the same success,” said Horace Luke, co-founder and CEO of Gogoro in a press release. “We created Gogoro to be a technology company integrating innovation and sustainable energy to create new business models, services and products that ignite urban residents and city governments to embrace sustainable energy with the new fuel of the future.”
The European Commission has fined Facebook €110 million ($122 million) for “providing incorrect or misleading information” about its 2014 acquisition of WhatsApp.
In a press release published Thursday, the Commission said that the social media company misinformed European regulators when it said that it would be unable to link the profiles of users on WhatsApp and Facebook. In 2016, however, WhatsApp announced that it would begin sharing some user data, including phone numbers, with Facebook. In its decision, the Commission said that “the technical possibility of automatically matching Facebook and WhatsApp users' identities already existed in 2014, and that Facebook staff were aware of such a possibility.”
The decision announced today will not have any impact on the Commission’s decision to authorize the acquisition, and it is not related to separate data protection investigations that are currently underway, the EC said in its press release. Germany ordered Facebook to stop collecting data from WhatsApp users in September 2016, and Facebook agreed to suspend data collection on UK WhatsApp users in November of that year. This week, WhatsApp was fined €3 million by Italian antitrust authorities for “inducing” users to share data with Facebook. The EC announced its investigation in December 2016.
"Today's decision sends a clear signal to companies that they must comply with all aspects of EU merger rules, including the obligation to provide correct information,” Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said in a statement. “And it imposes a proportionate and deterrent fine on Facebook. The Commission must be able to take decisions about mergers' effects on competition in full knowledge of accurate facts."
In a statement published to its website Thursday, Facebook said it “acted in good faith” during its interactions with the European Commission, and that it “sought to provide accurate information at every turn.” The social network acquired WhatsApp in 2014 for $22 billion.
“The errors we made in our 2014 filings were not intentional and the Commission has confirmed that they did not impact the outcome of the merger review,” the statement reads. “Today’s announcement brings this matter to a close.”

Google kicked off its three-day developer conference with a two-hour keynote. There were a lot of news and updates, notably to things like the Google Assistant, Google Home, and Google Photos, but if you don’t have 120 minutes to spend watching the entire thing, we’ve recapped the keynote for you in a snackable 10-minute supercut. Then, if you want to dive into more details on each of these news items, see our storystream for everything you may have missed.
Over the course of its eight years of existence, Kickstarter has become a crowdfunding juggernaut, synonymous with ambitious (and occasionally unrealistic) campaigns to bring new gadgets, games, and other startup-worthy ideas to life. Prior to today, a Japanese version of the service remained ambiguously absent, despite the obvious opportunities for crowdfunding neat exports otherwise impossible to buy outside Tokyo.
Now, according to a post on Kickstarter’s website, it will begin accepting projects from Japanese creators later this year. In the past, Japanese citizens have been able to contribute to Kickstarters, but have never been able to post their own projects. That doesn’t mean there haven’t been projects from Japan.
“Over the years there have been creators from Japan and other countries who have launched projects on Kickstarter by collaborating with partners,” a spokesperson confirmed to The Verge. Currently, that means partnering with a person or organization in one of Kickstarter’s 21 available markets. Information is scarce as to when the launch in Japan will happen, but Kickstarter has a sign-up page if you’re interested in getting an update on when the service goes live.


Today’s Google I/O presentation was as wide-ranging as the company’s various ventures into future technology, though the biggest cheers of excitement were inevitably reserved for Android. I just got my first taste of Google’s next iteration, codenamed Android O, and it looks like it’s targeting exactly the areas where Google’s mobile OS needed improvement.
Battery life, a thing that matters to all users at all times, is getting a nice helping hand from a couple of changes that limit resource consumption by apps running in the background. When a background app wants a location update, for instance, Android O will feed it the user’s last known location instead of activating the GPS or other hardware to collect a fresh location. Then, when the app is in the foreground, it regains its privilege of being able to poll for current location info. If you’re thinking that’s how it always should have been, I totally agree.
Google’s umbrella term for the unsexy but essential under-the-hood improvements in Android O is "vitals." My other highlight from among them is the massively improved bootup time: my personal Google Pixel took more than twice as long to start up than Google’s demo Pixel running O. I also find Android O runs very fast and smooth already, despite being only beta software. Naturally, not everything works flawlessly in the new OS yet, so I can’t judge how well Google is doing with its other vital bulletpoint, stability, but the first impression I’ve obtained is a positive one.
The more visible changes include a streamlined Settings menu (when has a Settings menu not looked in need of streamlining?), another gradual update to how notifications work, and new app badging à la the iPhone. Google calls these notification dots, and it adds a nice twist to the idea by automatically color-matching the dots to the app icon. A long press on an app with a notification dot on it lets you access a secondary menu where you can swipe that alert away without having to hunt it down in among your agglomeration of notifications in the tray.
Perhaps the biggest small change in Android O is the addition of picture-in-picture functionality. It allows YouTube Red subscribers to punt a video they’re watching to a small window — positionable anywhere on the screen — and carry on using their phone as usual. The Google Duo video-chatting app also supports this behaviour, but those two apps are the full extent of this functionality for now. I’d really love to see this made available to all YouTube users, and once third-party app makers like Netflix jump on board, it’s likely to grow into a popular feature.
Android O is littered with little nips and tucks that just enhance the user experience without necessarily being visible or apparent. At this stage in Android’s evolution, this approach feels like the best one to take, and I suspect we’ll all be just as aggrieved about not having the Android O update on our non-Google phones as we have in previous years of slow Android upgrades.*
*Google claims it’s made some other changes in the OS that will make Android more modular and thus expedite Android updates, but I’ll believe that when I see it, not before.
Google hosted its I/O developer’s conference today during which it announced additional features for its Photos app, virtual assistant, and Android O. A lot of these things were cool, but what was most befuddling throughout the event was the company’s continued focus on Mother’s Day. Does Google know when Mother’s Day is? Today, the company rolled out an update to its iOS Photos app that specifically highlights a Mother’s Day movie-making feature. See here:
As a reminder, Mother’s Day was this past Sunday, May 14th. To be fair to Google, this movie-making feature debuted before the holiday, but at the time, videos could only be compiled from the desktop app and then subsequently edited through the app. Now they can be made on the app. Still, this is hyper-specific UI for a holiday that comes around once a year.
I wouldn’t have thought much of this strange holiday update timing, but after the company brought Mother’s Day up twice during I/O demos, I really got to wondering what the deal is with Google and the holiday. During a demo of Google Home phone calls, Rishi Chandra, VP of home products, suggests that if he forgot to call his mom on Mother’s Day, he could do so hands-free from the stage. Chandra’s mom reminds him that Mother’s Day was three days ago to which he says he missed it because of event rehearsal. Alright.
Then later in the event, Google shows how its Photos app can be used to make a Mother’s Day gift in the form of a physical photo album. Again, Mother’s Day was on Sunday; why are we still talking about it? Maybe this is all a testament to the power of mom guilt.
Here’s a 1 percenter problem: I have both an Amazon Echo and a Google Home in our apartment, and so I could theoretically use whichever one is better. In a lot of ways, I think the Google Home is better: it sounds nicer, it works with my television, and it knows a lot of personal information that I haven’t bothered to try to make available on Amazon’s Alexa.
But I usually just go with Alexa, because “Alexa” is way easier to say than “OK Google.”
Rishi Chandra, VP for Google Home, tells me he’s heard that feedback. In fact, feedback along those lines is one of the reasons that you can say “Hey Google” instead of “OK Google” to activate the Google Home. But is Google open to adding another, easier-to-say hot word to its Assistant?
Maybe!
Here’s the story: Google decided not to give its intelligent assistant a name like Siri or Alexa or Cortana or whatever. Instead, it’s just the Google Assistant. There are nice things about that name: it’s genderless, it tells you what the thing is, and for Google, it signals that it’s a core product for the future of the company.
All of which makes Google “cautious” about throwing another hot word into the mix, according to Chandra. Because that new hot word might end up becoming what people call its assistant. Chandra is clear that Google isn’t religious about never adding another one, and it is listening to feedback from people like me who end up nearly swallowing their tongues when they try to say “OK Google” for the fifth time in a row. But he doesn’t want to make any quick changes without fully thinking through those implications.
As I wrote earlier today, a cautious approach to how to turn AI into consumer interfaces is kind of Google’s new thing, and in that context I don’t hate the decision to think through hot words really carefully. I just hate saying “OK Google.”
CBS debuted a full trailer for Star Trek: Discovery today, showing off a clip stuffed with plenty of Federation action, spaceships, and a ton of new characters, in a story set a decade before Captain Kirk and Spock ventured out in the Enterprise.
The trailer opens with Michelle Yeoh as Captain Philippa Georgiou and Sonequa Martin-Green as First Officer Michael Burnham walking across a desert planet. There, Georgiou tells Burnham that it’s time for her first command, and we jump to scenes on the bridge of the Discovery. Over the course of the next two minutes, the ship engages the Klingons, the new cast blurs by, tensions rise, and the character interactions hint at a number of plot threads involving the Federation’s current place in the universe. This show looks as though it has a far more militant Starfleet than the optimistic-explorer group in the original 1966 show.
CBS first announced Discovery in 2015, and revealed a teaser during last year’s San Diego Comic-Con. The show has since run into considerable problems: while it was supposed to begin airing in January 2017, it was pushed back to May, and delayed again earlier this year. Last fall, the show also lost its showrunner, Bryan Fuller, due to his workload, which includes Starz’s American Gods. With this new trailer, the show does seem to be back on track. Deadline notes that the show’s sixth episode is currently being shot, and that the order for the season has been upped from 13 episodes to 15. CBS also announced that it’s greenlit a companion talk show, Talking Trek.
Unfortunately, the trailer doesn’t offer a firm release date: the show is just coming “this fall.” Fortunately, there’s so much going on in this quick initial look that the trailer-analyzer brigade will probably still be combing through it frame by frame when fall rolls around. For those who live in the UK and Ireland, Netflix released a international version of the trailer you can watch here. Just note that it’s region locked for US viewers.
Clue helps women keep track of their menstrual cycle by allowing them to input information about when they have their period, how they’re feeling when they have it, their sexual activity, flow, and other notes. The idea is that with this detailed log, Clue can offer women a more thorough look at their fertility and how their period affects day-to-day life. Today, the company is building new functionality into its app that’s meant to help women understand how their birth control pill impacts their cycle. “Smart Pill Tracking,” as the company calls it, asks women to tell the app whether they took their pill that day, or more specifically, whether it was taken late, completely missed, or doubled because they had previously skipped a day.
Maybe more importantly, though, the app can also explain how pill dosages impact fertility. If you miss a pill, for example, there’s an increased chance of pregnancy. If they opt-in, users have to tell the app every day whether they took their pill, and if they don’t mark “taken,” it’ll offer instructions on what to do. (If it’s been less than three hours, the pill should be taken immediately and will still be effective, for instance.)
The app includes an alarm to remind users to take the pill, which is helpful but not foolproof. Sometimes doses are missed not because someone forgot to take the pill but because she doesn’t have her pill pack with her, or her prescription ran out and needs to be refilled. The information Clue provides likely isn’t any more helpful than a WebMD page, but it at least puts everything in front of a woman’s face so she doesn’t have to go out of her way to figure out what to do.
Personally, I’ve always found one of the worst aspects of using a Nexus or Pixel smartphone to be getting stuck with Google’s bad, default emoji. Emoji intended to represent people look more like thumbs. Or, in the words of The Verge’s Megan Farokhmanesh, they resemble “normal emoji that melted.” Or Dots candy or something. I feel a slight anxiety when l include what should be a fun, cheerful emoji in my texts to friends who have iPhones or Samsung phones. which display more regular emoji. What will it look like to them? Must I pull up some chart to see?
Google finally got the message that these emoji suck. Okay, “suck” is a little harsh. I’m sure some of you like them. But they’ve always been a little too offbeat when other phone makers offer emoji that mostly look similar. Google tried to tone things down a little and restore normalcy with Android N, but it wasn’t enough. So this time the company decided to start over and make things right for Android O.
Fast Company has a behind-the-scenes look at the redesign process, which apparently took 18 months. Somehow this revelation went unmentioned on stage, where it was only briefly stated that you’ll be able to download your own emoji sets and custom fonts in O. So if you don’t like these, hopefully you’ll be able to switch back rather easily. But the emoji seen above are the new system default.
You can get the new emoji yourself if you install the beta release of Android O. Do you dislike the blobs enough to put up with random beta bugs? I just might. If not, you’ll get them when the OS update is officially released later this summer.
Goodbye and good riddance.
I just spent some time with a small, early demo of the new home screen experience for Android O on TV. Even though it’s not fully working yet — some of the apps don’t open, and the Google Assistant isn’t running on it — it has a nicer TV UI than the other television devices I use every day.
Those TV devices: Apple TV and Chromecast. The latter, while convenient, has no on-screen UI at all, which is a problem if you’re trying to pick a show with somebody else. The Apple TV is, well, it’s a big, boring grid of apps, only a few of which actually surface any kind of deep content on the home screen (and only if you happen to put them in the top row).
Android TV is more like Fire TV and the Xbox: each app is able to create a “channel,” which displays important content right on the home screen. You scroll vertically through your favorite app channels, then left to right to get live previews. It will also work with live television apps.
There’s obviously a big old app grid if you want that, and a row of your favorite apps up at the top. You’ll be able to use Google Assistant to search for shows or even ask contextual questions. We got to do a small test of that on another TV device running Android Marshmallow, and it worked pretty well as far as the demo goes. It successfully showed the weather, and ably brought us information about Stranger Things.
There’s also a “Watch Now” queue, which will theoretically have the next episode of recent shows you’ve been watching and movies you’ve quit halfway through. It’s like a “keep watching” list on Netflix. But it’s also like a proper Netflix queue, because you can save any show or episode to it by long-pressing on its icon.
That’s not all that far off from what Apple is trying to do with its TV app, but on Android TV it’s built right into the home screen. That may sound like Android has figured out a way to do what Apple couldn’t — but the whole story is obviously more complicated.
Complication number one: app makers can choose whether or not to participate in the Watch Now section of Android TV, just like they can choose whether or not to participate in Apple’s Siri search and its TV app. Content companies have proven to be remarkably reticent to allow their content to be listed in places other than their app.
The only way to really get those apps into something like the Watch Now queue is probably leverage: sell millions upon millions of devices and prove that the feature is so popular that you’d be crazy to lock your content out of it. And that is really the second complication: Android TV was such a flop for the first few years of its existence that it’s been difficult for it to climb back. There’s simply not going to be a big enough install base for Google to gain that leverage.
So Android O on TVs: looks good, fairly promising, but probably not enough to make you want to switch to it. Turns out it’s easier to make a demo of a better TV interface than it is to actually make it a real thing customers use. It should be available alongside Android O for phones later this year.
A lot of people turn to search engines when they’re looking for work, so today the world’s biggest search engine announced Google for Jobs. The project aims to leverage Google’s advanced machine learning capabilities, sorting through millions of job listings to better match opportunities with candidates.
Right now Google isn’t planning to start hosting its own job listings. It is collecting them from third parties like Facebook, LinkedIn, Glassdoor, Monster, and ZipRecruiter. It then filters jobs for criteria like the length of the commute, and tries to bundle together openings for similar jobs that might be listed under different names. A couple of big companies, including FedEx and Johnson & Johnson, have been piloting the program, and Google CEO Sundar Pichai says they saw an 18 percent increase in applications over their previous methods.
It’s not clear if Google is dipping its toe into this market before launching a competitor to job search engines like Indeed. Right now, after a user clicks on the job they want, Google sends them to another service to apply. According to Bloomberg, Indeed generated over $300 million in revenue in the first half of 2015, and IBIS World estimates the total market to be around $4 billion annually, so there is certainly an attractive opportunity for Google if they want to take on incumbents. The product is rolling out in the US in the next few weeks.

Some people earn miles using their credit cards, others do it by actually flying somewhere. Today, Delta has added Lyft to its rewards program so you can accumulate miles from a service you might use more regularly — at least, more regularly than air travel.
To earn frequent flyer miles, Lyft users can link their account to Delta’s SkyMiles program from a dedicated website. The system works a lot like a credit card program: you earn one mile for every dollar spent on Lyft. At launch, Lyft is offering three miles per dollar for rides to and from airports.
Lyft isn’t the first ride-sharing app to implement a frequent flyer partnership model; Uber has a similar program with Starwood Preferred Guest which lets users earn points to use when booking SPG hotels, which includes the Sheraton, Westin, St. Regis, W Hotels, and more. Uber also partnered with United Airlines and American Airlines to prompt users to book an Uber when their flight lands.
After a year of incubation, Android Instant Apps are finally ready for the world. Originally announced at last year's Google I/O, Instant Apps are a way for developers to offer a lightweight version of their Android app without requiring a visit to the Play Store. You just click a link in your web browser and all of a sudden you're using a real Android app, with all the power that implies — other than a few safety restrictions. A few Instant Apps were made available in January as a trial run, and a few other companies have partnered with Google to build instant apps since then, but now at this year's Google I/O the necessary tools have been made available to all developers.
To make an app Instant, developers need to make it modular and compatible with deep links, so users can click on a URL and end up in exactly the part of the app they're looking to use. The initial download also needs to be under a certain size, but users also have the option to download the whole app once they've gotten a taste.
Instant Apps were originally supposed to run on versions of Android as far back as 4.3, but right now they only support 6.0 or newer — though 5.0 support is supposed to be coming soon. The upcoming Android O will add additional improvements to Instant Apps, including the ability to search for and launch Instant Apps from the launcher, as well as add them to your home screen.
Twitter unveiled a new set of privacy and data controls today that allow users to see and control how advertisers target them on the platform. The company explains in a blog post that it’s expanding individual access “to give you the most transparent access to your Twitter information to date, including demographic and interest data, and advertisers that have included you in their tailored audiences on Twitter. Each category of data will be clearly marked, and you will be able to view or modify this data directly.”
The update appears to be rolling out to users now, though it might not be fully available for every Twitter member yet. Here’s the good news. Once you have access to the system, it will allow you to turn a lot of the advertisement targeting off.
To access the page, you’ll first want to head to the “Your Twitter data” tab, located under Settings. The page includes some basic info like your username, the exact date and time you created your account, and devices you’ve logged in with. If you’re concerned about security, it’s a good page to bookmark: it allows you to see the time, date, device, and IP location of your last 50 logins, as well as which specific locations Twitter uses to show you relevant content.
Anyway, back to the ad targeting. If you keep scrolling through this page, you’ll find the “interests” section. In my case, Twitter lists 69 (nice) interests for me, and zero interests from partners (...).
According to Twitter, your interests are based on profile activity. Mine include categories such as “cartoons,” “console gaming,” “politics,” and “cute,” presumably because it knows that I spend most of my time on Twitter being yelled at by gamers and drowning my existential dread with pictures of adorable animals. You can remove interests, though the feature won’t allow you to add any.
If you want to opt out of targeted ads, head to the “Interests from partners” section. You can turn off this feature in a few ways. First, go to “personalization and data” and deselect any options to receive personalized ads. There are a few to choose from: apps, location, web browsing history. Opt out as you see fit.
You’ll also want to deselect the “share data through select partnerships” option. Twitter notes that while this will affect which ads you see on your stream, it won't remove you from advertisers' audiences. You can request a list of which advertisers have your Twitter handle on their own marketing lists by visiting the link under "Tailored audiences."
On its support page, Twitter explains you may also opt out of interest-based advertising via Digital Advertising Alliance’s consumer choice tool, as well as enable the “Limit Ad Tracking” or “Opt out of Ads Personalization” setting on your phone.
Congratulations! You have ever-so-slightly loosened yourself from the grip of capitalism. At least on Twitter.
When the ShadowBrokers first published the code for EternalBlue — an NSA exploit targeting Windows’ file-sharing protocol — researchers knew it was a bad bug. But most had no idea of the scale of the damage that would be caused by the vulnerability.
Much of that damage has only become visible in recent days, as a ransomware program dubbed “WannaCry” locked up computers from the UK’s National Health Service to the Russian Ministry of the Interior. Some of the damage caused by EternalBlue was harder to spot, caused by more discreet malware designed to infect and monetize computers without leaving a trace. As researchers look for clues as to WannaCry’s origins, more of those programs are coming to light, and giving us more information about the sheer scale of the damage caused by Eternal Blue.
One of those programs, called Adylkuzz, exploits the vulnerability to mine an obscure cryptocurrency called Monero. According to research released this week by Proofpoint, Adylkuzz became active sometime between April 24th and May 2nd, weeks before WannaCry burst onto the scene. Researchers estimate it reached hundreds of thousands of devices, spreading through the same Windows vulnerability exploited by WannaCry.
Adylkuzz didn’t cause the same stir because it wasn’t shutting down computers or sending ransom notes — all the program did was perform Monero’s mining operation in the background. While that’s definitely not good for your computer, it’s not catastrophic enough to raise alarms, allowing the program to remain undetected until the WannaCry fiasco drew more attention. In fact, because Adylkuzz closed the EternalBlue vulnerability once it infected a machine, researchers suspect the program actually limited the spread of the more damaging ransomware.
Despite the low profile, Adylkuzz was nearly as profitable as WannaCry. Proofpoint identified at least $43,000 paid out as part of the scheme, and it’s likely other wallets would raise the figure even further. So far, roughly $80,000 has been paid out to known WannaCry wallets, a surprisingly low figure given the chaos caused by the attacks. At least one other EternalBlue-powered cryptocurrency miner has been spotted in the wild, and there may be others that are yet undiscovered.
There has also been an explosion of WannaCry variants, possibly the work of copycats. Researchers located a kill-switch domain over the weekend that blocked the initial attack, but in the days since, a handful of alternate versions of the ransomware have popped up either pointing to new domains or with no kill-switch protocol at all. But researchers are split on the origin of the variants, with some pointing to code corruption issues as evidence of a third party at work.
Earlier today, researchers at TrendMicro announced the discovery of an entirely new variant called UIWIX. Like WannaCry, it’s a ransomware program built on EternalBlue — but UIWIX is able to infect machines without writing files to permanent storage, making it far harder to detect through conventional forensics. It also adds new methods to throw off researchers observing it in a virtual environment, leading TrendMicro to suspect a separate group is responsible for the new attack.
That combination of new and old variants make it harder to definitively say who was responsible for the initial WannaCry infections, as it grows increasingly likely that multiple actors are in play. The question has become particularly urgent after Symantec and Kaspersky announced evidence tying the initial attack to a previously researched North Korean cybercrime group.
The good news: patching the single vulnerability will protect against all the different variants, particularly now that Microsoft has released its emergency XP patch. As a result, some researchers see WannaCry’s sudden fame as a powerful weapon against the lesser-known bugs. “I think that WannaCry caused a few cybercriminals to accelerate their timelines,” said Trend Micro cloud research VP Mark Ninnukhoven. “WannaCry burned the match for EternalBlue. For defenders this is a really good thing as WannaCry — which did cause some real-world damage and has frustrated organizations worldwide — wasn’t nearly as malicious as other malware and ransomware that we’ve seen previously.”

Google just concluded its I/O 2017 keynote, where executives led by CEO Sundar Pichai laid out the company’s future roadmap for Android, Google Assistant, Google Home, virtual reality, and much more.
Skydiving Google Glass-wearers, giant phone giveaways, and major hardware announcements no longer rule Google’s biggest annual conference. Instead, the company has settled into a pattern of releasing information about what it’s doing (and what it wants to do) for developers at I/O, instead of trying to wow consumers or the press.
You might call that boring, but that’s also a misguided notion, because there was much to glean from Pichai and the rest of the Googlers who presented onstage. So here are the 10 most important takeaways from today’s I/O keynote.
Android’s mobile dominance hasn’t stopped growing. CEO Sundar Pichai revealed at the keynote’s start that the tally of monthly active Android devices now exceeds 2 billion. That includes smartphones, tablets, Android Wear devices, Android TVs, and any other number of other gadgets that are based on the operating system.
Google Assistant can now analyze the world around you with the help of your smartphone camera. Using a technology the company calls Google Lens, the Assistant will analyze your surroundings and display relevant content on your screen. You’ll see a restaurant’s rating when pointing your phone at the storefront, you can aim it at a flower and it will identify the species, and you can even pull up a band’s music or videos by pointing Lens at a concert poster. But the most useful example might be this: if you point Lens at Wi-Fi login credentials, your Android phone will be able to use that info to log on to that network. (Thank you, Google.)
Google’s not the first company to try to add artificial intelligence to a smartphone’s camera. Samsung recently launched “Bixby Vision” on the Galaxy S8, a sight-based version of its own Bixby digital assistant, for example. And Snapchat (and now Instagram) are using low-level AI to apply goofy filters to your face. But Google’s offering much more with Lens than just image recognition, shopping, or face filters. And while Facebook is exploring similar computer vision efforts, Google is trying to do it sooner than later with Lens.
Assistant is expanding beyond Android to iOS. Google Assistant will be a standalone app on iPhone and iPad, offering many of the same functions as what we’ve seen it do on Google’s own operating system. You don’t have to wait long to try it, either; it’s available starting today.
Like Amazon, Google is turning its smart speaker into a phone. Over the coming months, all Home owners will be able to place free calls to the United States and Canada. By default, Google uses a private number for this feature — but you’ve got the option of tying it to your own mobile phone number. The same goes for everyone else in your house, as phone calls support Home’s multi-user setup. Only outgoing calls will be available at launch, as Google is taking a cautious approach to avoid privacy headaches.
Google’s smart speaker was already one of the best ones on the market, but the company announced a suite of other new features and updates beyond calling to Home that make it much more powerful. Home is now going to be able to control HBO Now, Hulu, SoundCloud, Deezer, and more. Even better, Google is opening up access to Home’s Bluetooth radio, meaning you can treat it just like any other Bluetooth speaker.
Home is also becoming more useful away from the device itself. Google showed off what it’s calling “visual responses.” Using Google Assistant, Home will now be more capable of directing the right information to the right connected screen. Say something like: “OK Google, show my calendar for today” and Home can instantly display your day’s events on a Chromecast-connected TV. Ask Home for directions to a place or event, and it will send the directions right to the Google Maps app on your phone.
More than ever, this requires extreme commitment to Google’s products and services, but that’s sort of the point — Google is betting it can bring all this stuff together in such an attractive way that you won’t think twice about buying (or ditching) your Amazon Echo.
Google Photos is getting a slew of great additions. The app will now recommend that you share photos you’ve taken with people that it recognizes as being in the shot. Google calls this Suggested Sharing. It’s also introducing Shared Libraries, which allow families to collectively add images to a central collection more easily. But Google is emphasizing control, here: you can share your entire photo library, share only from a certain date, or share photos that include certain things like your kids.
Digital backups are great, but what if you want physical memories? Google now offers printed photo books. Books can be created directly on your smartphone. Google will even recommend books to you when it thinks a particular collection makes sense. Books are available beginning today for prices that start at only $9.99.
And in the future, Google said that Photos will be able to automatically remove unwanted items in your shots — like so:
Google’s VR ambitions are expanding beyond Daydream’s current form, which involves strapping your smartphone to your face. The company announced that upcoming headsets from partners including HTC and Lenovo won’t require a smartphone or PC to power the user’s VR experience. You just put it on and it works. The headsets track virtual space with something Google calls “WorldSense,” powered by technology from its Tango augmented reality system. Unfortunately, we didn’t hear exactly when this standalone vision will become reality. Google just offers a vague “coming soon.”
New #Daydream standalone headsets from partners like @htcvive won't require a phone or PC. #io17 pic.twitter.com/7TpYPJGEdU
Google is launching its preview program for Android O, and the first beta is being released today. We’re still in the pretty early days of Android O’s development, so you shouldn’t install this preview on your everyday smartphone. But if you’re dying to check out the big new features — improved notifications, picture-in-picture, and more — you can enroll a compatible Pixel or Nexus device and begin testing out Android O.
Bringing the “next billion” users online with smartphone technology has been a major focus for Pichai since he took over as Google CEO in 2015. Today, the company announced one way it’s going to try to reach that goal: Android Go, a version of the mobile operating system built for entry-level devices that’s optimized for being used in data-restricted environments.
Android Go, which is built on Android O, comes with a “rebuilt” set of Google apps that require less memory, storage, and data to run. Android Go also has its own version of the Google Play Store, which features apps that are best suited for the developing world (like YouTube Go). The OS is able to run on cheap smartphones with as little as 512GB of RAM or less, and Google also built in a way for carriers to show users exactly how much data they’re using. Android Go is still an internal project, but Google sounded confident about it’s ability to take over where 2014’s Android One initiative left off.
Pichai was quick to hammer home the point that his company’s future depends on artificial intelligence, specifically the machine learning techniques that let algorithms learn on their own and improve over time. This technology underpins everything from its Assistant and search to Google Photos and the AlphaGo system. During the opening remarks of the I/O keynote today, Pichai announced Google’s next-generation Tensor Processing Unit, a specially designed chip for machine learning that works on the company’s TensorFlow platform.
This new TPU chip effectively makes building AI on Google’s platform incredibly fast and efficient, more so than with hardware and machine learning platforms used by competitors. With TPU and TensorFlow being optimized to work together, Google is effectively transforming its cloud computing platform into the Android for AI. This is a big deal for Google’s future. If the company can own the hardware and software used by the most cutting-edge AI researchers, it can stay at the forefront of the field and have its hand in every exciting advancement that machine learning, and every other AI breakthrough, yields in the future.
Google said today that we’re going to start seeing appliances show up with support for the Google Assistant, and two companies are already launching integrations: LG and GE.
Both companies are updating their existing lines of connected appliances so that they can be controlled through the Google Home and Assistant. Supported appliances including fridges, ovens, washers and dryers, an air purifier from LG, and an air conditioner and water heater from GE.
This doesn’t mean you’ll be able to speak directly to these appliances to control them, however. You’ll still have to use one of the existing Google Assistant interfaces — your phone or a Google Home — but they’ll be able to handle commands that you had to open up LG’s or GE’s app to handle in the past.
That said, the experience sounds slightly awkward, since you’ll have to be very specific in your requests to the Google Assistant. With GE, for instance, you’ll have to say “OK Google, ask Geneva Home if the dishes are clean,” since Geneva Home is the name of its connected app. It’d be simpler if you could just ask, “Are the dishes clean?” How many dishwashers could you possibly be trying to check, anyway?
LG says it’ll begin rolling out support for the Assistant this month. GE says its support will launch today.
While this is an important get for Google, it isn’t breaking new ground here. GE has already had Alexa support on all of these appliances, and LG even launched a fridge with built-in Alexa that you can speak to.
During a presentation at the I/O conference today, Google said that we’ll start to see “Google Assistant Built In” badges on supported products. A slide in the presentation said we’ll start to see support from Sony, Panasonic, Onkyo, and other familiar appliance brands:
Google announced a few big updates for the Google Home today. None of them are game-changing on their own, but they all add up to a substantial update for the connected speaker. Details are pretty basic right now, and Google didn’t say when any of these features would arrive, but here’s the gist of what’s coming up for the Home.
Google calls this feature “proactive assistance.” Essentially, Google Home will do its best to alert owners to things they need to know, like reminders, traffic alerts, or flight delays.
At launch, these are going to be really basic — it sounds like the Home won’t support notifications for much more than that. The limitation may be to prevent people from getting overloaded right away and give up on notifications altogether.
Google is keeping notifications pretty subtle, too. The Home’s light ring will begin spinning around, without making a sound, when there’s an alert. Owners will just have to say, “OK Google, what’s up?” to hear what it has for them.
Amazon just introduced calling through the Echo — but that was only to other Echo devices. Google is one-upping Amazon by letting the Home dial out to actual landline and mobile phones. Whenever this feature rolls out, you’ll be able to ask the Home to call anyone on your contacts list, and it’ll dial out to them on a private number.
Because Home does voice recognition, it’ll be able to figure out which person’s contact list to use when looking up who to call.
Unfortunately, it sounds like this feature is only coming to the US and Canada for now, so everyone else will have to wait on this one.
You can finally set reminders and calendar entries. Finally.
Google Home has already been able to control a handful of music and video services, but it’s about to get a bunch of major missing names. For music, that includes Spotify’s free tier, Deezer, and SoundCloud. For video, it includes HBO Now and Hulu. On top of that, Home is also getting the ability to stream anything over Bluetooth.
Altogether, these new integrations should make the speaker much more useful as a central media controller. While it can already do select services, you can’t really rely on the Home right now if you use a variety of streaming apps. Increasingly, it looks like you’ll just be able to ask the Home to do something and know it’ll work.
Sometimes you actually want to see what’s going on, so Google’s making a TV interface for the Google Home. You’ll soon be able to ask the Home to send information to your TV, from basics like the weather and your calendar, to information it’s looking up like nearby restaurants or YouTube videos you might want to watch.
Google also says that "over time” it’s going to bring the Assistant integrations that third parties build to the TV.
The Home is going to expand to five new countries this summer: Canada, Australia, France, Germany, and Japan.
Facebook today announced a series of News Feed tweaks to further decrease the reach and prevalence of clickbait on its social network. This comes after a substantial News Feed update last year that restricted the spread of clickbait and punished publishers who primarily use the tactic to trick users into tapping on a link. Now, Facebook says it will target clickbait on an individual post level and not just by analyzing the bulk posts of a page. It will also look at two distinct signals: whether a headline “withholds information or if it exaggerates information separately.”
“People tell us they don’t like stories that are misleading, sensational or spammy,” writes Facebook engineers Arun Babu, Annie Liu, and Jordan Zhang in a blog post posted today. “That includes clickbait headlines that are designed to get attention and lure visitors into clicking on a link. In an effort to support an informed community, we’re always working to determine what stories might have clickbait headlines so we can show them less often.” The company is also going to begin fighting clickbait in foreign languages, and not just on the English language version of its service.
Facebook says its new effort is an improved one because it looks at clickbait-detecting signals separately instead of trying to determine if a post or page is guilty of a number of joint factors. It does this similarly to how email spam filters, by identifying hundreds of thousands of examples of this manually by having a human team consider “if the headline exaggerates the details of a story, and separately if the headline withholds information.”
It then automates this process across the entire social network by looking for commonly used phrases that match the clickbait criteria. Facebook says most pages don’t engage in this kind of activity, and so won’t see any change in post reach or referral traffic. But those that do should see a noticeable decrease in activity.
This move, though it does echo the News Feed tweak from last year, is part of more recent and broader effort from Facebook to clean up its social network. In the wake of the contentious US election last year and the explosion of fake news, spam, and misinformation campaigns, Facebook is grappling with just how far reaching its influence is and how little control it exerts over bad actors on its platform.
So, in addition to its ongoing fight against fake news, Facebook has pledged to combat government-led “information operations,” which are state-affiliated campaigns to sow disinformation and spread propaganda. It also announced earlier this month that it would reduce the prevalence of spam and links to sites with terrible ad experiences.
If you have a rooted Android device, be aware that you may no longer be able to use the Netflix app going forward. The streaming company confirmed that its latest app update will block devices that are not “Google-certified or have been altered” from accessing the mobile service.
While Netflix did not specify why exactly it decided to stop playing nice with rooted devices, the fact that Version 5 of the Netflix app leans on Google’s Widevine digital rights management solution suggests some obvious reasons. As Engadget points out, the purpose of the DRM is to protect media companies from piracy; rooted devices that give users control over the operating system have a greater possibility of circumventing the barrier put forward by the DRM.
Though Netflix’s actions may seem well-intentioned, it does negatively impact users who’ve rooted their devices simply for greater control and customization of their phones rather than to bypass security measures. To see if your device is affected, check the Netflix app on the Google Play Store, and you’ll see whether the app is still compatible. If not, Android Police suggests a workaround of directly downloading Netflix APKs to receive the latest updates on a blocked device.
Philips has been extending its Hue range of smart home light bulbs with a variety of table lamps for a while now. But the existing selection of lamps, like the Hue Beyond or the Hue Phoenix, all have the similar issue of looking more like strange, glowing space jellyfish than, you know, actual table lamps.
Today, the company has announced some new Hue lamps — the Philips Hue White Ambiance Wellness and the Philips Hue White Ambiance Wellner — which clearly show that the company’s days of designing space-age table lamps are... not coming to an end anytime soon.
It’s not that they look bad, per se; of the two, the Wellness almost approaches normalcy for what you’d expect a lamp to look like. (I’m really not sure what Hue was aiming for with the blob-shaped Wellner.) And yes, there is the obvious solution of simply buying a regular Philips Hue bulb and sticking it in my boring, old desk lamp. But if Philips is going to make these premade lamps, it is too much to ask for one that doesn’t look like it came out of a science fiction movie? I guess the round, soft shape is kid-friendly.
Both the Wellness and the Wellner are already available in England, and they are set to cost $99.99 when they release in America in mid-June.
Correction: The Hue Wellness and Wellner will be available in mid-June, not mid-July as this post originally stated.
In an effort to speed up bag drops for priority customers, Delta Air Lines will be testing facial recognition technology at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport starting this summer. Customers will be required to scan their passports at specially equipped kiosks, where a camera will scan their face to confirm their identity.
Four new self-service bag drop kiosks are being installed in Minneapolis, but only one will include the facial recognition software. Delta will be collecting customer feedback during the process to gauge how it will expand the service to other airports in the future, a spokesperson said. Delta is spending $600,000 on the new machines.
The announcement comes as the US government has been reshaping its security processes around the use of more facial recognition. Customs and Border Protection is registering visitors leaving the US using facial recognition, and it’s mulling over making facial scans necessary for US citizens as well.
CBP began testing facial recognition systems at Dulles Airport in 2015, then expanded the tests to New York’s JFK Airport last year. Face-reading check-in kiosks will be appearing at Ottawa International Airport this spring, and British Airways is rolling out a similar system at London’s Heathrow Airport, comparing faces captured at security screenings with a separate capture at the boarding gate.
But while those face-scanning initiatives are being used for security purposes, airlines like Delta also see a customer service opportunity as well. And as more people become more comfortable (or at least tolerant) with the idea that privacy doesn’t carry much weight at US airports, the use of these types of scanning processes is likely to grow more frequent.
Delta insists that privacy will be protected and that its self-service bag drops won’t collect anyone’s information or retain any images of their faces. Still, privacy experts warn that government agencies (and now private airlines) run risks when using this technology, especially if it’s found that they are cross-checking facial images with law enforcement databases without permission.
Delta says its only interest is speeding up the check-in process for customers, while also freeing up gate agents to deal with more important situations. “We expect this investment and new process to save customers time,” said Gareth Joyce, Delta’s senior VP for airport customer service and cargo, in a statement. “And, since customers can operate the biometric-based bag drop machine independently, we see a future where Delta agents will be freed up to seek out travelers and deliver more proactive and thoughtful customer service.”
Nick Kennicott lives in rural Georgia, so when Gordon Ramsay asked him to go buy truffles and sea urchin to make an omelette, he balked. “I can’t get sea urchin and white truffle,” he said. “They’re like $500 per ounce.”
Kennicott is a student in Ramsay’s MasterClass, an online course made up of 20 videos, each under 10 minutes long. The video recipe that called for sea urchin and white truffle is called “Make: Elevated Scrambled Eggs.” In it, Ramsay stands in a pristine, well-lit kitchen and monologues about the importance of not overcooking your scrambled eggs. This technique is the first thing he learned in Paris, he says to camera, and he’s going to teach you how to do it in this six-minute video. This is an insiders-only tip.
“Insiders only” is the basic premise of MasterClass, except anyone with a credit card can become an insider. For a one-time $90 payment, users get lifetime access to several hours of video, plus written materials, from people who are considered “masters” in their field. Pay $90 and Serena Williams will teach you how to perfect your backhand. Pay $90 and famed director Werner Herzog will teach you how to scout a film location. Pay $90 and Deadmau5 will teach you the correct timing of a beat drop. MasterClass launched two years ago this month, and co-founder David Rogier recently told The Verge that the lineup is not just an attempt at obvious celebrity endorsement. “I really wanted people to learn from the absolute best, and I don’t think that’s been offered before,” he said. “The real filter is people who you’d still want to take a class from in 100 years.”
But who exactly are these classes for? Are they for people like Kennicott, a pastor who cooks as a hobby for friends and family? (For the record, sea urchin and white truffle appear to run for around $45 / ounce online, but that’s still not cheap.) Or are they for people easily swayed by a celebrity’s word? Online-only education doesn’t have a good reputation — just ask anyone who’s ever paid $1,400 thinking they could get a medical degree on the internet. But MasterClass is not a scam, even if it sometimes sounds too good to be true. It really is the only online education program to count Aaron Sorkin, Gordon Ramsay, and Steve Martin as instructors.
Rogier told The Verge that among MasterClass’ paying students are both accomplished professionals and Oscar winners, as well as amateurs and hobbyists. In each video’s comments section, users can talk to their fellow classmates, although there’s no way to tell who else is online at the same time as you. It’s like any other comments section in that it can look like a stream of people just chatting into the void. Gordon Ramsey’s students include a man living in Honolulu who has no sense of smell, a woman from Alberta who says she’s “having an affair with [her] kitchen” and a kid from Ohio who says he’s the “middle son wanting to be cool.” In Werner Herzog’s filmmaking course, there’s a “Filmmaker / Editor / Producer / Musician / Human Being” living in Los Angeles and “a curious polymath with a strong desire to tell beautiful stories!” from Paris.
But no matter where the students are watching from, or what bio they write to describe themselves, everyone ends up taking the same exact classes, down to an instructor’s weighty pauses. As with most startups, MasterClass seems to be prioritizing reach over personalization, which can lead to disappointment for users who go in expecting one kind of class, only to find out after the money’s been paid that it’s another thing entirely. In that case, there’s always the 30-day refund.
Sherry Strong, an author and clean-eating advocate, took Steve Martin’s MasterClass with the hope of infusing some levity into her work. She’s giving a keynote presentation about sugar addiction soon, and she hopes that comedy will encourage people to let their guard down during the post-keynote discussion. She enjoyed Martin’s class, but was “not nearly as impressed” with Aaron Sorkin’s screenwriting course. “Perhaps it was for more advanced screenwriters, but there were key basics missing for me,” she said. Nick Kennicott, on the other hand, found some of Gordon Ramsey’s videos a bit too basic. “I think some of the things that were in this class were actually in videos of Gordon Ramsay on YouTube,” he said. “Like parting out a whole chicken.” He’s right — there are actually several videos of Ramsay breaking up chickens on YouTube — but his MasterClass lesson plan is right there on the website. One course is called “Breaking Down A Whole Chicken.”
So if you need to figure out how to break apart an entire chicken, head to YouTube. But maybe MasterClass gives users $100 worth of inspiration, if not tangible skills. Clark Coffey, an independent filmmaker and actor who took Werner Herzog’s class, said the experience wasn’t really about how to make a movie, but rather why you should make one. “A person taking this class isn’t going to learn much about the technical aspects of making a film,” Coffey told The Verge. “But I think there’s a lot to learn in these videos about something more important: a philosophy of filmmaking, and of craft, and art — and dare I say, life. The videos are uniquely inspiring and motivating — at least to someone like myself who’s a fan of Herzog’s.”
Herzog, whose tutorials have titles like “Financing First Films,” “Negotiation Skills,” and “Working with Actors on Set” do give some practical advice. (On funding: “I do not want to have attorneys negotiate, that’s the end of everything.”) But he also talks about things like pre-filming rituals and how to get past the “endless chain of banalities” that filmmaking can sometimes turn into. “I’m not really teaching,” Herzog told The Verge. “I’m just passing on what I learned in practical experience in my life.”
You need life experience to make a movie, too, and if you don’t have enough, Herzog has some suggestions. According to Coffey, the class assignments include things like, “Using your house as a starting point, pick a direction and walk 100 miles in that direction,” and “arrange an interview with a prison inmate in your hometown.” This is Herzog’s version of Ramsey’s white truffle omelette. Obviously, not everyone has the free time or mobility to go on a 100-mile walk, and a prison visit comes with its own set of roadblocks. Coffey did complete the walking assignment, although he says it was broken up over a week of traveling, in Chicago, Toronto, Niagara Falls, and Hawaii. “The most significant limitation is that you’re not actually there in a room with the instructor and your fellow students,” Coffey said. “You can’t ask questions and have a two-way conversation.”
Herzog did film a Q&A session in which he answered questions from his students, sent though and vetted by MasterClass. “There were hundreds and hundreds of questions coming in in writing,” Herzog said. “It has surpassed all expectations from anyone in the amount of response.” But Herzog is not and cannot be available at all times to answer questions (one of the downsides to having a famous teacher), and so users are left with the abyss-like comments section and something called The Hub, a forum embedded into MasterClass’ site where students can discuss specific topics.
On The Hub, students frequently post drafts of their work, asking for candid feedback. Unlike a more public platform like Reddit, the comments on The Hub are largely thoughtful and generous — there’s just not a lot of them. In a post from about two weeks ago, a student asks for “general feedback” on an experimental short film. Only one person responded to his call, clearly trying to nail the grad-seminar balance of criticism and praise.
Despite the fact that The Hub has been available since launch, Coffey said the most helpful discussions have occurred off-platform — when students move their conversations over to Facebook. And that’s going to be MasterClasses biggest issue: getting members to come back, even after their six-hour classes end. The subscription might last a lifetime, but how many times can you watch Aaron Sorkin’s lengthy monologues about his craft? And if other platforms provide more useful discussion spaces than MasterClass, why stay there? But MasterClass doesn’t want people to rewatch the same videos over and over; the company’s business plan only works if people keep coming back for new and different courses.
Rogier refused to offer even a ballpark figure of how many users MasterClass has, but it’s clear that the company is trying to expand quickly. Rogier told me he wants to double the number of classes offered in the next year, and expand the amount of tutorials from existing instructors.
Increasing the number of instructors makes sense, because for all of the students I spoke with, the celebrity instructors were MasterClass’ biggest appeal by far. (Coffey is a lifelong Herzog fan; Kennicott found out about Ramsay’s class because he follows him on Facebook.) MasterClass makes it pretty easy for the celebrities, too, who are compensated an undisclosed sum for their effort. Herzog told me it took just three days to film his class, and he didn’t even mind that MasterClass’ aesthetics didn’t quite jive with his own. “It was in a small studio,” he said. “And in my opinion, too many cameras. I’m always on the frugal side — basically, let’s face it, I’m a one-camera guy.”
There’s another MasterClass selling point, one that Rogier only mentions to me at the end of our chat, and it’s a little bit dark. We were talking about the possibility of having Prince as a guitar teacher, and Rogier remarked that with Prince’s death last year came the death of his craft. Not guitar-playing in general, but how Prince specifically played guitar. “If [musicians] do interviews, it’s about their music, new albums,” Rogier said. “This is about making sure their craft isn’t lost.”
MasterClass becomes a bolder and slightly more eerie startup if you think of it as meticulously documenting the artistry of the world’s biggest celebrities — as described by the celebrities themselves — so that it can serve as a digital time capsule after their deaths. If that’s the case, MasterClass still has a number of celebrities to collect, but ego and fear of death has always been a great persuasive device.
Happily, all of the current MasterClass teachers are still alive and working, and the students that I spoke to were all able to name at least one benefit of taking a class. Coffey says Herzog was his “dream instructor.” Sherry Strong says that she’s writing a screenplay, and Steve Martin’s class encouraged her to inject some comedy into her script. And Nick Kennicott said Gordon Ramsay’s course made him more comfortable working with fish — just not, of course, sea urchin.
Samsung announced yesterday that it’s now preloading its Bixby virtual assistant on its Family Hub 2.0 refrigerator. The company will also roll it out via an over-the-air update for units that have already shipped, according to Pulse News Korea. The assistant will let users search for recipes and weather information with their voice. This definitely makes more sense than having to rely on the 21.5-inch LED touchscreen while in the kitchen.
Bixby launched with the new Galaxy S8 but is still only partially active in the US. Phone owners have only been able to use Bixby Vision augmented reality, Bixby Home, and the Reminders features. The full voice commands aren’t available, and we don’t know when they will be. Still, Samsung envisions its assistant being implemented in all its products, including TVs and wearables. The fridge is just the start.
This evening, SpaceX will attempt to launch its sixth Falcon 9 rocket of the year, sending a communications satellite into orbit for the company Inmarsat. But don’t expect one of the company’s signature landings after launch this time. Unlike most of its missions these days, SpaceX will not try to recover the Falcon 9 post-takeoff.
That’s because the requirements of this mission would make it pretty hard to land the rocket after launch. The satellite that SpaceX is launching, called Inmarsat-5 F4, is larger than a double-decker bus and weighs nearly 13,500 pounds. That makes it perhaps the heaviest single probe that the Falcon 9 has ever lifted. Plus, the satellite is going into a particularly high orbit called Geostationary Transfer Orbit — a path 22,000 miles above the Earth’s surface. Both of these factors combined mean that the Falcon 9 will need to use a whole lot of propellant during launch to get the satellite where it needs to go. That means there will be very little propellant leftover to perform a landing. (Learn more about that here.)
However, today’s launch is still significant for SpaceX, since it marks the company’s first mission for Inmarsat. The satellite that’s going up tonight will join three additional I-5 probes already in orbit, making up the Global Xpress constellation for Inmarsat. This satellite group is responsible for providing high-speed, mobile broadband service to airliners, ships, and more.
Additionally, today’s launch comes just over two weeks after SpaceX’s last mission — and the company’s next launch is tentatively scheduled for just over two weeks from now. That means SpaceX may finally be getting to the launch cadence that the company has boasted for a while now. In February, SpaceX president Gwynne Shotwell told Reuters that the company planned to launch “every two to three weeks” this year, after one of the company’s launchpads in Florida became operational. It seems like SpaceX may be on track for meeting that goal.
Tonight’s Falcon 9 is scheduled to take off around 7:20PM ET from pad 39A at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida. The company has a 49-minute launch window, during which time the Falcon 9 can still take off. If for some reason tonight’s launch is scrubbed, SpaceX has a backup launch date for tomorrow at 7:21PM ET. Though weather is looking good for tonight so far; there’s an 80 percent chance that conditions will be right for launch, according to Patrick Military Air Force Base. Check back here about 15 minutes prior to takeoff to watch SpaceX’s coverage of the launch live.
Qualcomm continues to have a rough start to the first half of the year after being sued by Apple and the United States Federal Trade Commission in separate lawsuits over anti-competitive practices. On Friday, Samsung and Intel both filed briefs backing the FTC in its case against Qualcomm, claiming they have been “harmed” by the misconduct.
Although Samsung develops its own chips that compete with Qualcomm’s, it uses its competitor’s chips in its smartphones — such as the Snapdragon 835 processor in the Galaxy S8. “Despite having requested a license from Qualcomm, Samsung cannot sell licensed Exynos chipsets to non-Samsung entities because Qualcomm has refused to license Samsung to make and sell licensed chipsets,” Samsung said in its brief, calling Qualcomm’s actions “exclusionary.”
Intel, on the other hand, claims in its filing that Qualcomm’s practices have “inflicted and continues to inflict precisely the harms that the antitrust laws seek to protect against,” according to The Wall Street Journal.
“Qualcomm has maintained an interlocking web of abusive patent and commercial practices that subverts competition on the merits. These practices have illegally coerced mobile phone manufacturers into purchasing the chipsets they need from Qualcomm and Qualcomm alone,” Intel wrote on its website.
While Qualcomm has not commented on Samsung and Intel’s briefings, it did warn investors in its most recent earnings report that growing legal challenges may affect its financial outlook. Qualcomm’s motion to dismiss the FTC suit is slated for June, and will be heard in a federal court in the Northern District of California.
Hardware chain Lowe’s is outfitting employees with a simple exoskeleton to help them on the job. The company has partnered with Virginia Tech to develop the technology, which makes lifting and moving heavy objects easier. The non-motorized exoskeletons are worn like a harness, with carbon fiber rods acting as artificial tendons — bending when the wearer squats, and springing back when they stand up.
“It feels very natural,” Kyle Nel, the director of Lowe’s Innovation Labs, tells The Verge. “When the person is walking and bends down to pick something up, the rods collect potential energy. And when they stand back up it puts that energy back into their legs and back. It’s very smooth, and it feels like this heavy thing [they’re lifting] is much less heavy.”
Lowe’s has issued four of the custom-built suits to employees at a store in Christiansburg, Virginia. The equipment has been in use for over a month and the company says early feedback is extremely positive. “[Employees] wear it all day, it’s very comfortable, and it makes their job easier,” says Nel, adding that Lowe’s is working with scientists from Virginia Tech to conduct a proper survey of the technology’s usefulness. “It’s early days, but we’re doing some major studies,” he says.
Many companies and research institutes have developed simple exoskeletons of this type. Swiss firm Noonee sells a harness that lets wearers sit in midair, alleviating strain when squatting; and General Motors has teamed up with NASA to develop a motor-assisted glove that makes it easier to grip and lift heavy objects. More advanced exoskeletons like Panasonic’s powered suits are also available. However, as with this foray by Lowe’s, the actual number of exoskeletons deployed in the field is still small.
Lowe’s is confident that technology like this will help the chain stay efficient and productive. The company’s Innovation Labs has previously worked on projects like bespoke 3D printing (tested on the International Space Station) and creating a robot that guides customers around stores. This latest venture, though, seems more likely to yield results speedily, and Lowe’s says it kept the suit simple to make it easy to improve.
“We didn’t want to over-engineer it, make it too fancy, or give it too many bells and whistles,” says Nel of the exoskeleton. “We’re putting it in the rough and rumble world of a real store and will iterate on top of that.”
Asus is reportedly ending development on its ZenWatch line of Android Wear smartwatches, according to a report today from Digitimes that cited sources in Taiwan's supply chain. The report is unconfirmed and The Verge has reached out for comment.
The Digitimes source claims that Asus is shipping an average of just 5,000 to 6,000 ZenWatch units per month across the product line, sales that are low enough that Asus is expected to discontinue the product line.
If true, Asus exiting the Android Wear business would mark yet another major hardware manufacturer bailing on Google’s smartwatch platform, alongside companies like Motorola (which has put off smartwatches “indefinitely”) and Samsung (who has shifted focus to its own Tizen-based Gear line). The ZenWatch products were among the most affordable Android Wear devices, too.
But even as traditional hardware companies are backing away from Android Wear devices, fashion companies seem to be picking up the slack; a host of new Android Wear 2.0 watches is set to arrive later this year from decidedly less tech-focused brands like Tommy Hilfiger and Hugo Boss.