arch
It’s been a busy week for streaming services, and Amazon is closing things out with a huge announcement: the company has closed an overall deal with The Walking Dead creator Robert Kirkman, along with signing a first-look agreement for his production company Skybound Entertainment. In one fell swoop, it makes Amazon Prime Video the exclusive home for any new shows from the minds behind The Walking Dead, Fear the Walking Dead, and Cinemax’s Outcast.
Skybound historically has a close relationship with AMC, the network behind both Walking Dead TV shows. Two years ago, Kirkman signed an overall deal with the network that made it the home for any upcoming projects. (Outcast, which was already underway at Cinemax, was exempted from the deal.) Despite declining ratings over the last year, The Walking Dead has continued to be one of the biggest hits in television, and the overall deal was a way for AMC to keep one of its most profitable hitmakers in-house.
The shift now puts Amazon in that position for any new shows, and the larger deal with Skybound ensures that Amazon will have first dibs on any other projects that the company develops. While it’s an incredible win for Amazon, it also makes perfect sense given Skybound’s larger emphasis on digital strategies. Under the stewardship of producer David Alpert, the company has eagerly jumped into YouTube Red programming, virtual reality projects like Delusion, and app-driven film experiments like the recent Capture. Given Amazon’s diversified range of products and services, Skybound’s ambitions are simply much better served by Jeff Bezos’ company than they could ever be with a traditional television network.
It also adds one more interesting wrinkle to the continued evolution of streaming service programming itself. Just this week Netflix announced it had bought Mark Millar’s company in order to develop original programming, while Disney revealed that it would be launching its own bespoke streaming service in 2019. Skybound’s partnership with Amazon puts the streaming service on par with one of the most interesting TV networks in the landscape, and it will almost certainly make Prime Video a de facto destination for horror and genre fans.
This week on The Vergecast, Nilay, Lauren, Dieter, and Paul begin by discussing the controversy over the Google engineer who was fired over writing a 10-page viral memo about diversity. The story illustrates a deeper problem in Silicon Valley, which Lauren has discussed in her podcast recently, so the cast talks about the science of the claims, the responsibly of Google, and what it means in the larger tech industry.
In the second half of the show, the crew runs through the latest leaks, releases, and controversies in the gadget world, including Paul’s segment he does every week, “FROYO PODS.”
01:46 - Google engineer fired over memo files labor complaint
33:09 - Consumer Reports stops recommending Microsoft Surface PCs over reliability concerns
37:41 - The new iPhone could have a resizable home button and face recognition for payments
46:22 - 4K Apple TV with HDR spotted in HomePod firmware
48:54 - Essential promises a new phone release date “in a week”
56:19 - Another Pixel 2 leak shows the phone’s large front bezels
58:14 - Paul’s weekly segment “FROYO PODS”
If you enjoyed this podcast and the many topics discussed on the show, there’s kinda more you can listen to! Check out Ctrl-Walt-Delete’s final episode, and our Anchor channel, which experiments with audio and podcasting in new and interesting ways.
We’re also starting new podcasts soon! So let us know what you’d want to hear next from The Verge.
You might also want to check out Recode Decode, hosted by Kara Swisher, and Too Embarrassed to Ask hosted by today’s guest Lauren Goode! You can find them all in iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, and anywhere you get your podcasts.
Netflix is trying to keep Marvel and Star Wars movies on its service after its distribution deal with Disney ends in 2019. Netflix’s chief content officer Ted Sarandos told Reuters that the company was “still in active discussions” with Disney to hold on to the rights to stream certain franchises. Meanwhile, Disney CEO Bob Iger has said there’s no distribution plan in place currently for Lucasfilm or Marvel Studios, according to Reuters.
Earlier this week, Disney announced that it was going to end its distribution deal with Netflix — a deal that was made in 2012, but only took effect last year. The deal will end in 2019, when Disney intends to launch its own streaming service, featuring upcoming movies like Toy Story 4 and the Frozen sequel.
As the timeline stands right now, Netflix should have the rights to the first and second installments in the Star Wars trilogy (The Last Jedi is set to come out at the end of 2017) but not the third installment, which is set to come out in the winter of 2019.
Having the final installment of that trilogy would be a big get for Netflix, but if Netflix wants to eventually become a massive studio with diverse content that it has exclusive control over, its long-term plan will be more about creating original content than hosting already popular franchises.
Apparently Netflix expected this Disney splintering eventually. Sarandos told Reuters, “That's why we got into the originals business five years ago.”
In an effort to make the batteries that power wearables and medical devices safer, scientists have developed new flexible batteries that can run on saltwater — and maybe one day blood, sweat, or tears.
The lightweight batteries, described in a paper published this week in the journal Chem, can withstand being folded in half a hundred times. And they’re safer: instead of running on toxic chemicals, they’re powered by relatively harmless liquids like saltwater and IV rehydration solutions. That’s key if you have a battery powering a device that’s worn on or inside your body. That way, if the battery leaks, the stuff inside won’t hurt you.
Batteries work by storing electrical energy as chemical energy. They have three main components: two metal electrodes that conduct electricity — one that’s positively charged, one that’s negatively charged — and a soup or paste of electrolytes in between. When the battery is powering a device, ions shed their electrons and then drift through the electrolyte soup from one electrode to the other.
In a lot of the flexible batteries out there, these electrolyte solutions are made out of strong acids or toxic chemicals, the study says. That stuff is corrosive, flammable, or toxic, and you definitely don’t want it dribbling onto or into your body. That’s why scientists at Fudan University in China came up with a way to replace these toxic electrolyte solutions with something much less harmful.
Their batteries come in two different forms. One looks like a strip of tape, made of two flattened electrodes that sandwich the electrolyte in between. The other battery is composed of two tiny threads made out of carbon nanotubes. One thread incorporates specks of a positively charged electrode, while the other weaves in negatively charged electrodes. The two threads are then packed together into a tiny, hollow tube filled with the electrolyte solution. The idea is that these thread-like batteries could one day be woven into wearables or smart clothing.
The researchers experimented with a few different types of electrolyte solutions. The one that worked best was sodium sulfate, which is sometimes used as a laxative. But saline solutions, which are literally diluted salt water, also worked well. Eventually, bodily fluids like blood, sweat, or tears might take over the roll of the electrolyte solution to power medical implants, the study says.
You know what that means, right? The future of power might be in your pee.
Speedtest has long been the go-to for measuring internet speed, and now it’s launched the Speedtest Global Index, a monthly global ranking that allows you to see how your country stacks up when it comes to internet speed.
The Global Index compiles data from the billions of tests consumers run on the service, and shows both mobile and fixed broadband speeds from around the world. Set to be updated monthly, each country’s ranking shows both its average download speed, as well as any difference in rank from the previous month. Click through on an individual country, and view both its average download and upload speed.
Speedtest’s blog seems to indicate that charts tracking performance will also appear on individual country pages as monthly reports continue to publish, allowing people to “uncover trends and detect potential storylines.”
This is certainly not the only internet speed ranking, but it is fun to see how countries move up and down the charts. Cyprus, for example, moved up a whopping 21 positions in mobile ranking from last month’s data to number 35, while France moved down five positions in the same chart to number 37. If you’re wondering how the US fares... we’re down at number 46 for mobile under Montenegro, Sweden, and Hungary, and at number nine for broadband. (Hey, not bad!) Only three countries appear in the top 10 for both categories: Singapore, South Korea, and Iceland.
Matt Spicer’s new film Ingrid Goes West is the warmest, most interesting movie I’ve ever seen about a cellphone.
Aubrey Plaza stars as Ingrid, an unmoored young woman left with no friends or close family after her mother’s slow, painful death. She’s made a habit of turning to her phone for companionship and guidance. With a pile of life insurance money waiting to be spent, she decides the best way to find herself is to make the same dramatic life decision as generations of young Americans, and head west. The Gen-Y twist is that her manifest destiny isn’t just the beaches and palm trees. She’s desperate to form a friendship with her favorite Instagram influencer (Elizabeth Olsen), who she initially bewitches by stealing her dog, then “finding” and returning it.
(As if to emphasize just how eerily accurate the film is, Olsen recently gave an interview in which she said she joined Instagram just to capitalize on the “opportunity” for sponsored content and brand ambassadorship.)
It would have been all too easy for this movie to turn into a cheap parody of social media culture, and an unfair, unsympathetic portrait of a young woman with material obsessions and no moral code. But Ingrid Goes West evades that fate with on-the-nose detail (Joan Didion quotes, Edward Sharpe-inspired nuptials, “girl crushes,” fluttering-heart emoji, poached eggs) and a complicated antiheroine that puts Plaza at the top of her game. Plus, her charming, constantly vaping love interest (played by Straight Outta Compton’s O’Shea Jackson Jr.) is irrationally invested in Batman, giving the film space to lampoon boys’ pop culture obsessions right alongside its centralized, stereotypically feminine subject matter.
The film even dares to ask, and makes a few satisfying attempts to answer, the question of what we want and need from social media. Though Instagram feeds and iMessages appear on the screen often, and the story is a dark, down-the-rabbit-hole psychological thriller, it’s easy to feel a warmth and solidarity with Ingrid, and to find her longing for connection familiar and relatable.
Recently, I spoke to director and co-writer Matt Spicer about why and how he decided to tackle the tricky questions at the heart of Ingrid Goes West.
This interview has been edited for clarity and length.
How did you decide to make a movie about Instagram influencers?
It came out of a regular lunch between me and Dave [Branson Smith], the co-writer. We’d been friends for a while and we were just shooting the breeze and talking about Instagram. We both love it, but it had us feeling shit about ourselves sometimes. Feeling like we’re not cool enough, or not going on enough vacations. It can bring out the dark side of you, if you’re not careful.
I think it was Dave who said, “Well, wouldn’t it be funny if there was kind of a Talented Mr. Ripley or Single White Female with social media?” We kind of laughed about it, but then I couldn’t stop thinking about it over the next couple of days. I called him and I was like, “You know, I think we should do something like this.” We started brainstorming from there, and outlining.
Did you do any research? How did you decide which type of Instagram influencer this movie was going to be about?
My girlfriend and [Dave’s] wife are super active on social media because of their jobs, so I tangentially have a lot of exposure to that stuff, and so did he. We told them the idea and they were really helpful through the whole process — reading drafts and giving us guidance and notes and turning us on to specific people they thought would be funny references. When we initially settled in on doing something like this, I think, a) we’ve all already seen The Talented Mr. Ripley, and b) because the culture of Instagram and of society in general is different for women than it is for men, it made more sense if they were both women. Once we settled on that, we started thinking, “Okay, who are these women who make a living by putting their lives online, and going on vacation and wearing cool clothes?”
There are so many of them out there, and we went down a real rabbit hole with all these different Instagrammers. We were looking at what kind of stuff they post, what kind of captions they write, what emoji they use, how they talk. It was fascinating from an anthropological standpoint.
How did you discuss how you were going to physically present Instagram on-screen?
It was really important to me that we use Instagram and not create a fake “Pictogram” or something. I hate when I see something on TV and it’s clearly supposed to be Facebook or Instagram, but it’s not. We talked to our lawyers, and they advised us on what we could or couldn’t do. It’s a harder road to go down, and a more annoying one. For example, Instagram totally changed their interface while we were shooting. We shot all these insert shots of the phone with a certain interface, and then they didn’t match anymore. That was really frustrating. We had to fix some stuff in post-[production].
I just thought it made the film feel so much more real and relevant, by having it be Instagram and not some made-up thing. Familiarity with that app is such a part of our daily lives, I think for most people, as soon as you change it, it doesn’t feel right. Something feels off about it.
“Going west” is a timeless symbol of personal reinvention in American literature and film. Is that related to her urge to model her life after an Instagram influencer’s?
I’m not from LA. I’m from Pennsylvania, and I came out to LA to be a filmmaker when I was younger. For me, California and LA have always been where you go to realize your dreams and be the version of yourself you’ve always wanted to be. Obviously the reality of that is much more nuanced, and it’s not all bad, but it’s not all great, either. It’s challenging to navigate that and still maintain a shred of your own personality and self in a place where it’s really easy to get lost.
That definitely applies to her situation. This idea of building your personal brand and your image is so ingrained in the culture [of LA]. It just made sense that it was LA and not like, Austin, which is a cool city, but the social commentary isn’t quite as sharp. Even New York is not quite the same as LA in that regard.
Do you consider Ingrid an antihero or a true protagonist?  There were times when I wasn’t sure whether the movie was sympathetic to her.
The films that inspired us were, again, The Talented Mr. Ripley, or Taxi Driver, for instance. They’re films where the main character is clearly not a role model. But they’re really interesting, complex people. There aren’t a ton of roles like that for women. It was really exciting to create a part like this that hopefully, in our wildest dreams, lives alongside those characters as a complicated… yeah, anti-hero, I guess, would be a good word for it. We’re not supposed to like everything she’s doing, and she’s definitely not a role model, but what’s interesting is the parts of her we do relate to. I think it’s interesting to have characters we can reference in order to recognize the darker parts of ourselves.
The Talented Mr. Ripley is about really obvious class striving and class barriers. Do you think that type of thing is re-created on Instagram?
Yeah, and in a way, it’s weird, because people don’t talk about class as much as they used to. Anyone can become a celebrity now. The usual pathways to fame have been broken down. Now all you need is a phone and an eye for photography, and anyone can build a brand and become famous. How do we define class, and how do we define fame? It seems so fragmented now.
In a way, it’s good. But in a way, it’s also… it can make you feel even worse about yourself. In the old days, there were celebrities and then there was everybody else. And so there wasn’t that much pressure on someone from Pittsburgh, or wherever. It was like, “I’ll go to the movies, and I’ll enjoy living that fantasy through [celebrities], and then I’ll go back to my normal life.” Now we’re all expected to live this glamorous life and put our best self online, and it’s just adding stress and anxiety to people’s lives.
With the death of Ingrid’s mother being the catalyst for the rest of the events of the film, I got the sense that what she was looking for on Instagram was mostly guidance on how to be a person. And some affection.
She references it in the film, but we talk about her mom having a drinking problem. I went to some Alcoholics Anonymous meetings while we were writing, to hear people talk about their experiences growing up in those kind of households. The one common refrain was that, for a lot of people who grew up in those environments, healthy relationships feel unhealthy, and vice versa. The way you are taught to ask for love and affection is very different than how it is for other people. Yeah, I don’t think Ingrid knows how to ask for what she needs in terms of validation or human affection, so she starts looking for it the only way she knows how: through her phone, because she’s alone. She doesn’t have anybody around her to tell her not to do something. To say, “Maybe it’s not a good idea to go all the way to California to become friends with someone you talked to on the internet one time.”
But that feels good to her. That’s definitely it. A lot of the things we do online, I think that’s the question: why are we doing this? What are we looking for here? Are we looking for validation from strangers, and why are we looking for that?
What audience do you think is going to respond most immediately and intimately to a movie like this?
I’m hoping young people go see it. They’re the ones I think are going to be most affected by social media. People say young people don’t go to the movies anymore, but I hope they make an exception in our case. I hope it provokes conversation in terms of looking at this thing they’ve probably had their whole lives, and saying, “Why do I post this, and what do I hope to get out of it?” But it’s funny, we screened it for very diverse audiences over the last six months, and older people have a really strong reaction to it as well.
Aubrey Plaza’s character is in her late 20s, which really feels like the prime age to me for this story. Teenagers have it figured out. I don’t think they’re the ones struggling with these questions.
I’m in my early 30s, and I feel like I’m in that middle generation where I remember what it was like before social media, but it’s such a part of my life now that it’s hard to remember. Then there are people like my parents, who are on Facebook, and they’re just so excited to share photos, but it’s a fun little hobby for them. It’s not their whole lives. Then there’s my sister, in the younger generation, for whom it’s just all-consuming, and they don’t even think about it. They don’t even know what it was like to not have Twitter or Instagram or instant messaging or every song available to you online whenever you want.
This movie still feels like an extreme, though. It’s almost a horror movie. It doesn’t seem like something that’s happening all the time. So that’s good.
Yeah, well, I hope it’s not happening to people.
Ingrid Goes West opens in limited release on August 11th.
Samsung is headed to IFA later this month, and it’s starting to sound like we’ll see some new smartwatches there. Android Headlines spotted an FCC filing from Samsung showing off a Samsung Gear Sport, a thus-far nonexistent smartwatch or fitness device of some kind.
Given that it’s passing through the FCC right now, the device is probably almost ready to be released. Samsung used its IFA presentation to introduce a new generation of Gear smartwatches this time last year, so it makes sense that we’re seeing hints of that happening again this year, too.
All we really know so far is that the Gear Sport supports Bluetooth and Wi-Fi and probably runs Tizen, given the lack of Galaxy branding. It’s not clear if it’ll take the shape of a smartwatch or be closer to a long fitness tracker, but the most recent Gear devices have all had identical round shapes. The last Gear-branded fitness band was released just over a year ago.
A sports-focused watch would make plenty of sense. Apple has really refocused the Apple Watch around fitness, while Samsung’s Gear watches are still going for a much more fashionable look. Making a new model that’s more tailored to exercise would help it better compete with Apple and could get more people interested in the product.
If Samsung does release a sports-focused watch, it wouldn’t be surprising to see it introduce other styles of the devices as well. But so far, we haven’t seen anything on it.
The latest update to Google’s native camera app, which you can also download via the Play Store, now brings a minor but potentially useful update: selfie flash. Since most smartphones don’t have a flash built in to the front-facing shooter, Google Camera mitigates this by adding a manila-toned slab right as your selfie is taken, which is supposed to help produce a little extra light in dimmer settings.
To enable the selfie flash, tap on the Flash icon when in front-facing camera mode and select automatic or on. You’ll know it’s enabled when you see the lower third of the screen covered by a block of beige. The goal is to brighten your selfie with a warm color rather than cold flash of bright white, though it doesn’t seem to have automatic white-balancing like the iPhone’s camera. After you snap a photo, the entire screen is enveloped in the beige lighting. (It takes an extra second until your selfie is delivered, so keep your head and hand steady.)
The version 4.4 update also brings a few more shortcut gestures, such as double tap to zoom, and swipe to toggle between shooting video and still photos. As noted by Google, the latest version is designed to work on recent Nexus and Pixel devices running Android 7.1.1 and above.
In what reads like science fiction becoming reality, researchers at the University of Washington have been able to successfully infect a computer with malware coded into a strand of DNA. In order to see if a computer could be compromised in that way, the team included a known security vulnerability in a DNA-processing program before creating a synthetic DNA strand with the malicious code embedded. A computer then analyzed the “infected” strand, and as a result of the malware in the DNA, the researchers were able to remotely exploit the computer. The results were published in a recent paper.
“We wanted to understand what new computer security risks are possible in the interaction between biomolecular information and the computer systems that analyze it,” the researchers wrote, led by Tadayoshi Kohno, a professor of computer science at the University of Washington.
The basic structural units of DNA are called nucleotides, and they’re stored as letters A, C, G, and T. Sequencing allows scientists to determine the order of the nucleotides, which in turn means scientists are able analyze the genetic information carried in the strands. The cost of sequencing has sharply fallen by over 100,000 times in the last 10 years.
After sequencing, this DNA data is processed and analyzed using many computer programs. Modern technology means hundreds of millions of DNA strands can be processed at the same time. Though taking over computers using DNA seems like something out of the movies, creepily played out in real life, the researchers say there’s no reason for concern. “We have no evidence to believe that the security of DNA sequencing or DNA data in general is currently under attack. Instead, we view these results as a first step toward thinking about computer security in the DNA sequencing ecosystem,” the scientists said.
“A primary goal of this study was to better understand the feasibility of DNA-based code injection attacks. We also know of no efforts by adversaries to compromise computational biology programs,” they explain.
Just last month, scientists revealed they were able to insert a GIF of a horse into the DNA of living bacteria.
For a hot minute, tablets were both super interesting and super hard to define. Sure, there was the iPad, but there were also other contenders. Android blurred the line between phones and tablets with 7-inch slabs. Microsoft pushed out Windows Surface devices that were basically tablets. (It has since decided to dub them "laptops" because, well, that's how people actually use them.) Hell, even Amazon was battling at the high end for a little while with Fire tablets.
It’s a little simpler now. As we pick the best tablet, we're focusing on the "tablet things" that most people want to do with a tablet. It should be good for watching video, playing games, and reading. It should be thin, light, and have a battery that lasts long enough that you don't have to worry about it dying on your commute. There are people who want a tablet that can do "real work" like spreadsheets, video editing, and whatnot. Most tablets can do some of that in a pinch — and one tablet can do more than you'd expect — but most people prefer to do that work on a proper laptop or a hybrid device like the Surface Pro and its clones.
You can probably already guess the bottom line. When it comes to doing the tablet things that most people actually do, there is only one tablet that fits the bill. It is, of course, an iPad. Everything else has either shifted to traditional computer status (the Surface Pro), or was left behind in the relentless march of technology and relegated to low-end mediocrity (nearly every Android tablet).
So when it comes to tablets that aren't low-key trying to be laptops, the real question is simply this: which iPad?
The new iPad, simply called "iPad" and released in April 2017, is the best tablet for most people. It hits all the marks for a good tablet, and sometimes it knocks them out of the park.
As we wrote in our review, the most important thing about the iPad is simply the price: it starts at $329, which is significantly cheaper than new iPads used to be. And given how much that price gives you, it might be the most bang for your buck you can get from any gadget right now, period.
The iPad has a very good screen — not the best available on a tablet but very few people will care. It's fast, has a massive selection of apps, and supports TouchID for security. It's also likely going to get software updates for a year or two longer than its predecessor, the iPad Air 2, so it's worth it even if a refurb of that older tablet is available. Later this fall, a new version of iOS will allow the iPad to do more advanced multitasking, but it might not turn the iPad into a full-on computer for you.
There are a couple things you'll miss out on with the iPad, but they aren't must-haves. For one thing, it doesn't have a connector for accessories like keyboards (you’ll have to use a Bluetooth keyboard if you want one for this iPad), nor does it support the Apple Pencil. It also only has two speakers — which, for a device you will watch a lot of movies on, is a slight disappointment.
The $329 model comes with 32GB of storage, which is fine so long as you don't download a ton of movies and music; you'll want to stream them instead. If you need more storage, $429 will get you 128GB, which should be plenty for most people. It costs $130 for LTE connectivity, but chances are, you will do just fine tethering it to your phone in a pinch when you need it.
If you absolutely want the best of the best, the new 10.5-inch iPad Pro will not disappoint. It starts at $649 for 64GB of storage, but you'll probably want to consider getting more if you're already investing that much money. Add in a smart keyboard and Apple Pencil, and you can quickly spend $1,000 or more on this kit.
Related
But for that money, you'll have a tablet that is every inch as powerful as many laptops out there today. It has the best screen ever placed on a gadget, with accurate color and even dynamically changing refresh rates for smoother scrolling and video. The screen is slightly larger than what you get on the 9.7-inch iPad, but the overall footprint of the device is not much bigger, thanks to smaller bezels.
Is it worth spending this much on an iPad? Perhaps. If you already know how to make it your main computer and are adept at getting things done in iOS, you will be able to get more out of the iPad Pro.
These other tablets are basically for people with niche needs. If you really hate the size of the larger iPads, the iPad Mini 4 is a decent option, but it could stand to be updated. As for Android tablets, do not buy the now-old and yet still-overpriced Pixel C, but the Samsung Galaxy Tab S3 is okay if you must have Android on your tablet.
Our favorites of the low-cost options are Amazon’s new Fire tablets. They’re dirt cheap and have pretty poor performance to match. For $80 (or $50 with ads), they’re surprisingly acceptable knock-around tablets for very basic tasks like reading and watching Amazon Prime movies. And nobody does kid-mode features, like limiting access and tracking usage, better than Amazon.



Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy.
Microsoft is teasing what it describes as big and bold changes to its Xbox Live Achievements. In a podcast interview with Windows Central, Xbox Platform VP Mike Ybarra says Microsoft is working on something that “fundamentally changes the concept” of Xbox Achievements. “We are working towards a bigger, more meaningful change about somebody's gaming accomplishments in history, as a gamer on Xbox,” says Ybarra. “We can do a lot more to reflect and let people show their gaming history and their status.”
It’s not clear what Microsoft will introduce for Xbox Achievements, but the company has a number of different ways it could better reflect gamer progress and history. Xbox Achievements were first introduced more than 10 years ago with the Xbox 360, but Microsoft has never really overhauled them. Gamerscore, a number linked to Achievements, has always helped represent how much effort an Xbox Live player has put into the games they own but little else. “We're going to go big in the area of letting people show off and represent their gaming history and the type of gamer that they are, far more than we do with Gamerscore,” says Ybarra.
Microsoft isn’t revealing its exact changes yet, but the company is currently testing a new beta dashboard for Xbox One owners. The software maker is also redesigning its Xbox Avatars, to make them a lot more customizable and diverse. There’s a lot of changes coming to the Xbox platform later this year, alongside Microsoft’s new Xbox One X console.
If you’ve ever wanted to see the critically acclaimed musical Hamilton on Broadway, but can’t afford the notoriously expensive tickets, there’s now an app that allows users to potentially win two seats to the musical for just $10 each. The HamApp, as it’s lovingly called by creator Lin-Manuel Miranda, is being released today on iOS and Android.
The app also features an app-based show lottery, stickers, camera filters, and news, with augmented reality content also on the way. "We are constantly exploring ways to allow more people to experience Hamilton in its many forms,” said Hamilton theatre producer Jeffrey Seller in a statement.
There’s also a Snapchat-like filter function that lets you pretend to be characters in the show, including a founding father on the $10 note. If you’ve ever wanted to mimic a US president or win Hamilton tickets, now’s your chance.
We're about a month away from new iPhones being unveiled, and that means all kinds of mock-ups and dummy models and supposed part leaks have been coming out. And one kind of odd thing that's popped up several times over the last week has been a new iPhone color: it's somewhere between orange and bronze and pink; it's objectively pretty ugly; and I think I really love it.
Supposedly, this year's iPhones will only come in three colors — and one of them won't be rose gold. It's safe to assume the first two colors are black and white, and it seems very possible that Apple would make the third into yet another pinkish, goldish shade (even if it doesn't actually look all that gold). The last gold and rose gold models were pretty popular, after all.
Now, there's absolutely no firm evidence yet that this bronze-ish option is actually coming to the iPhone. And if it is, there's a very good chance it'll look much better on finished models than it does on these fake ones. I think the video above shows the best-looking version of it yet.
But it's hard to imagine this color looking dramatically better in person, if these are actually accurate representations. The black camera bump seems out of place, and the white front looks particularly distracting, especially since it's surrounded by a kind of golden edge.
#iPhone8 Design-Dummy, das Display wäre größer als jenes eines Plus-Modells, aber im Gehäuse eines regulären. pic.twitter.com/wflyGMAHBt
Yet, in spite of all this, there's something about this color I really like. We don't get all that many color options on phones (although things are a bit better in the Android world), and I can't remember seeing anything quite like this one. It's weird. It's noticeable. It's potentially the best brownish gadget since the Zune (which I also kind of, sort of liked). In some light, the color almost resembles a pinkish foundation and feels like it's designed to fit perfectly in an Instagram post or fashion ad.
I don't know that this color alone is enough to bring me back to iOS from Android, but it’s the kind of thing that has me thinking about the iPhone’s design again, after three tired years. And paired with the full-on redesign we’re expecting, I think it could be a pretty interesting flagship look for the next-generation phone.
Now the big question is, what will Apple actually call the color? There was heated debate in The Verge’s Slack room as we tried to figure it out. Here are some of the best (and, fittingly, worst) suggestions:
I think my vote is on Rug Burn.
Orphan Black, the Canadian science fiction show that revolves around human cloning, will end on Saturday, August 12th after five darkly funny, gory seasons. The show began with a former British street urchin, Sarah Manning (Tatiana Maslany), watching as someone with her exact facial features commits suicide by jumping in front of a train. From there, the show unravels to be about large biotech corporations, conspiracies, and above all, morally questionable science.
Spoilers ahead for all of Orphan Black except the finale.
Science classes teach students early on that human experimentation is ethically wrong if the subjects don’t know they’re being experimented on, or exactly what the experiment entails. Orphan Black explores this taboo by giving us villains that love experimenting on unwilling or unwitting people. From installing a secret camera in a woman’s artificial eye to harvesting the eggs of an eight-year-old girl, the corporate forces on the show are unapologetically sinister and indifferent to basic scientific ethics. The show is both a celebration of science and a reminder that it’s frightening when used to the wrong ends.
With the end of Orphan Black imminent, we’re looking at the real world for our fix of real science straddling the world of science fiction. Since the show began airing in 2013, have we gotten any closer to the future of extreme body modifications and human cloning that Orphan Black has so often teased? I spoke with Paul Knoepfler, a biology professor at UC Davis, and John Quackenbush, professor of biostatistics and computational biology at Harvard and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, to see how far away we are from some of the show’s most outrageous inventions.
GROWING A TAIL
Early in the show’s run, Olivier, a body-modification fan who’s one of the antagonists overseeing a human cloning project, shows off the pink tail he’s grown. Sarah is understandably disgusted. But such body modifications could exist, as humans are already naturally born with primordial tails, Knoepfler says. All you’d need to do is stop the pre-programmed cell death of those tail cells, maybe by giving a pregnant woman a drug, Knoepfler says. The most challenging part of getting a functional tail would be finding a way to extend the length of the spine, according to Quackenbush. And even if a tail was successfully constructed, there are more unknowns, says Knoepfler, like what part of the brain would control it, or whether the tail would trip you as you’re walking. Granted, that isn’t a problem if it’s this short:
I SPY WITH MY BIONIC EYE
At the end of season 2, Rachel Duncan, a clone who’s grown up under the care of large corporations, is stabbed in the eye. She receives an artificial replacement, and after many months, she regains complete sight. Ultimately, though, she decides to tear out her eye, because she learns the man responsible for commissioning it also had a camera installed inside it to spy on her. This leads to a truly creepy cinematic moment where Rachel sneaks into the man’s office, looks down at his mysterious tablet, and discovers a live stream of what her eye sees: a screen within a screen within a screen, ad infinitum. “I watched you touch yourself in the shower where you think it’s clean,” the man says gleefully in a following episode.
Putting the show’s sinister ingenuity aside for a moment, Rachel’s bionic eye — spy-cam and all — may be possible, Knoepfler and Quackenbush say. Bionic eyes already exist, but the main challenge is connecting an artificial eye with the optic nerve, which connects the eye to the brain. That nerve probably would have been damaged during Rachel’s initial injury. Creating a bionic eye poses an additional challenge, as the eye must mimic nature and be able to send and receive the right kinds of signals to be read by the brain, says Quackenbush. But if the eye and optic nerve could be reconnected, the eye could potentially be powered by a battery, and making a camera small enough to fit inside the eye is completely possible with today’s current technology. Then Wi-Fi and Bluetooth would give the eye live-streaming capabilities.
POISONOUS BOT IMPLANT
In the penultimate season, Sarah discovers she has a bot implanted inside her cheek, which acts as a tracking device and contains a poison her enemies can release into her bloodstream. Micro-tracking implantations already exist in our world: just take the microchips that are often implanted in dogs and cats, Quackenbush says. The tracking device part of the bot also seems plausible: there are devices today that can draw on nearby Bluetooth devices as a network, Quackenbush says. And even storing a toxin inside the bot isn’t just science fiction, given the steady infusion of insulin or other drugs that devices already offer humans today. The problem, however, is the bot’s power supply: it would have to be significant enough to potentially sustain the bot throughout a human lifetime — and no such batteries exist yet.
AND OF COURSE, CLONING
“We already have clones; they’re identical twins,” says Quackenbush. But there are other, less random methods for achieving human cloning. One way is how Dolly the sheep was cloned, by taking the part of the egg cell that contains genetic information and replacing it with a donor’s cell nucleus. The egg is then fertilized and grown into a clone. But using this method, called somatic cell nuclear transfer, on humans could be extremely unsafe, because the clone could have serious developmental disorders, Knoepfler says.
Quackenbush imagines another method to approach human cloning: reversing cell aging. Basically, adult stem cells could be reverted into their original state as stem cells, when they possessed the genetic potential to divide and become the heart, liver, skin, and other organs. “An embryo, in many ways, is the ultimate stem cell,” says Quackenbush. But this method hasn’t been tried before.
Orphan Black’s science consultant, Cosima Herter, believes that cloning humans is illegal in North America. “We’re not allowed to hear about it, because we’re not allowed to do it,” she wrote in a blog post for the show in 2013. This isn’t quite right — no federal laws, at least in the US, ban human cloning. The US Food and Drug Administration is the regulator that matters for research into cloning humans.
With the end of Orphan Black comes the end of a decently plausible science fiction series. It’s given us hints of what the future might have in store. It could even inspire the science to come. “I think [science fiction] is part of what got us into this business in the first place,” Quackenbush says of himself, and others in the science community, “You see the future and you want to try to invent it.”
David Baron has been chasing eclipses for almost 20 years. His first total solar eclipse — when the Moon fully blocks the Sun from sight, turning day into night — was in 1998, in Aruba. The experience convinced him to travel the world to catch more eclipses. “I really didn’t know what a big deal it would be,” says Baron, a science writer. “It was so moving, almost psychedelic. I just decided I wanted to experience it again.”
Since 1998, Baron has traveled to Europe, Australia, and Indonesia to witness five total solar eclipses. And on August 21st of this year, he’ll climb nearly 11,000 feet to the top of Rendezvous Peak in the Teton Mountains in Wyoming, to witness the first total solar eclipse crossing the US from coast to coast since 1918. He’s not alone: eclipse chasers all over the world travel wherever they can to get a fleeting glimpse of the celestial phenomenon. This month’s eclipse is expected to draw millions of people.
The experience can be addictive, Baron says. A total solar eclipse lasts only a few minutes — just a couple minutes on August 21st, depending where you are — but those few minutes can give you a “feeling of incredible connection to the universe,” he says. During a total solar eclipse, the day turns into night, and all of a sudden you can see the planets appear in the sky. You can also see the Sun’s wispy outer atmosphere, called the corona, the jets of light and rays shot into the surrounding universe. “It’s just the most breathtakingly beautiful, I daresay, glorious sight in the heavens,” Baron says.
Eclipse chasers have been around for a long time, and we have good records of who attempted to catch more recent eclipses. In 1860, a group of scientists traveled by train, stagecoach, wagon, steamboat, and canoe for 47 days to witness a total solar eclipse in today’s central Manitoba, Canada. (Unfortunately, clouds covered the entire eclipse.) In 1870, Frenchman Jules Janssen escaped Paris by balloon during a Prussian siege to reach Algeria and witness a total solar eclipse there.
Baron writes about these, and other, eclipse-chasing adventures in a new book, called American Eclipse. The book focuses on the eclipse of 1878, which crossed the US from Montana to Texas. Among the eclipse chasers this time were astronomer Maria Mitchell, who wanted to show the world that women could be scientists; and a young Thomas Edison, who yearned to prove his scientific worth. (He spent eclipse day testing an improbable instrument called the tasimeter, which was designed to measure the heat emitted by the Sun’s corona.)
The 1878 eclipse proved to be an important one for the US: it allowed a young country to prove that its burgeoning scientific community was capable of doing serious scientific research. And it inspired thousands of regular Americans to become interested in science: many flocked to Denver, buying blue or smoked glass to stare at the Sun as the Moon hovered over it; on Pikes Peak, Colorado, dozens picnicked as they waited for the eclipse. Crowds cheered loudly once the Sun became completely covered. Baron says he’s experienced the same collective cheering while watching a total solar eclipse in Munich in 1999.
“Eclipses, I find, connect the present with the past like few other natural events,” Baron writes at the end of American Eclipse. “For me, personally, they are life milestones. Each forces me to reflect on who I was the last time I gazed at the corona. For us, collectively — as a society, a nation, a civilization — they can have the same indelible, life-affirming effect. They afford a chance not only to grasp the majesty and power of nature, but to wonder at ourselves — who we are, and who were were when the same shadow long ago touched this finite orb in the boundless void.”
Ahead of this month’s total solar eclipse, The Verge talked to Baron about eclipse chasing, his book, and whether this year’s total solar eclipse will be as important as the one in 1878.
This interview has been lightly edited and condensed for clarity.
We know what drives scientists to chase eclipses. But what about regular people?
It is just the most jaw-droppingly beautiful and spectacularly moving experience I’ve ever had, and certainly a lot of people feel the same way. Even though it is so brief, it’s like nothing else you’ve ever experienced and so for a lot of folks, it can become an addiction. You just want to have that experience again, that feeling of incredible connection to the universe.
Who’s your typical eclipse chaser?
A number of eclipse chasers are kind of the traditional group of amateur astronomers, folks who go with their telescopes and their solar filters and really like the scientific aspects of it. They’re not studying it, but they’re taking photos with their fancy cameras and stuff like that. But then you’ve got other folks — and I would put myself in their camp — who just find it exciting and moving and beautiful. And that can be anyone who may have seen their first solar eclipse by accident, or they were just going along with a friend who really wanted to see it and were unexpectedly moved by the experience. There is a wonderful, wonderful video that was produced by some Australian TV program about this mother-daughter pair who chase eclipses. It just captures what I’m trying to say: it makes you feel alive and part of the universe and something you just want to share with people you love.
Have you bumped into the same eclipse chasers over and over?
I haven’t personally, but it’s hard often, because if a total eclipse goes over a large section of land, people will be spread out. But when I was in Indonesia last year, I was traveling around with a Canadian eclipse chaser whom I’d met online and we intentionally hooked up on the island of Belitung, Indonesia, and rented a car together. As we were driving around the island, he happened upon an American eclipse chaser whom he hadn’t seen in 15 years, who he had last seen in Ghana at a previous total eclipse. And he recognized that guy. So it definitely happens; it has yet to happen to me.
Where did you meet the Canadian guy?
There are a couple of places where eclipse chasers can kind of hang out or meet up with each other. There’s this very active listserv called SEML, Solar Eclipse Mailing List. Whenever a total eclipse or even partial eclipse is coming up, folks will be talking about where they’ll be going. It provides tips on hotels or travel or the best place for clear skies. It’s a way for eclipse chasers to kind of fuel each other’s enthusiasm. There’s also eclipse-chasers.com. The most interesting aspect is there’s an eclipse chaser log. So after you’ve seen a total eclipse, you can have your own log entry and you can update it, marking on Google Maps precisely where you were, counting whether you had clear skies, cloudy skies, and how many minutes, seconds, and tenths of seconds you were in the Moon’s shadow. And it all gets added to the running tally, so if you go to the eclipse chaser log, you can see who’s in first [place] in terms of total eclipses, or total time in the shadow of the Moon. I’m way down the list somewhere.
It kind of reminds me of what birders do with their life lists. I’m not part of the birding community, but I think there’s both an aspect of collegiality and also competition in terms of who’s got the longer life list. There’s a bit of that in the eclipse chasing, too. Everyone really wants success for everyone else, but you also kind of like the fact that you’ve seen more total eclipses or you had better success than somebody else.
What drove you to see your first total eclipse?
That was May 1994, when there was a partial eclipse that was going to cross the US. In the course of reporting on that eclipse, I interviewed the astronomer Jay Pasachoff from Williams College, and he was emphasizing that even a very interesting partial eclipse is nothing compared to a solar eclipse. And he said to me, “Before you die, you owe it to yourself to see a total eclipse.” And I took it seriously. I took a book out of the library or I bought a book about total eclipses, and I noticed that, in a few years, there was going to be one crossing Aruba in February, and it just seemed like a no-brainer that I should go to Aruba and see what he was talking about. That’s what got me to see my first total eclipse.
During that trip to Aruba, you got the idea to write a book about total solar eclipses. Why did you decide to make Edison such a central character in the book?
Really, my excitement for this story began with Thomas Edison. I was looking at various eclipses that might be worth writing a book about, but when I discovered that Thomas Edison — in the very year right after he invented the phonograph, and immediately before he invented the light bulb — had gone to Wyoming to see a total eclipse, I thought, well, there’s gotta be a story here. This is a key year in Edison’s life, and here he is out in the Wild West. It’s been written about so little. If you read any Edison biography, it will mention maybe in a paragraph that, oh and by the way, in the summer of 1878, Edison took a vacation, went out West, saw a total eclipse, and then he came back.
If Edison hadn’t gone West in 1878 to see the eclipse, it is quite likely he would not have been the one to invent the first successful light bulb. In his time in the West, he was with these other academic scientists who were encouraging him to take on the problem of electric lightning. But more than that, when Edison went West for the eclipse of 1878, when he was going to do his own experiments during the eclipse, he was mastering his skills at public relations. He had the newspapermen wrapped around his little finger. And that was a key skill that was critical to his success with the light bulb, to be able to keep the press on his side, to get investors excited about what he was working on during those long, hard months when honestly he didn't know what he was doing, but he was trying to tell the world that he had solved the problem of electric lighting. I just love Edison as a character. He was such a colorful, folksy genius.
I particularly love your descriptions of Maria Mitchell, and her struggle to be accepted in the scientific community. When did you first hear about her?
I’m embarrassed to say frankly how little I knew of all of the characters in my book, except for Thomas Edison, prior to working on the book. I’d heard of Maria Mitchell but I really knew very little of her. But as I discovered, she was very prominent back in the 19th century and even in the early part of the 20th century. When I learned that she had taken this all-female expedition to Denver in 1878, which obviously was quite remarkable for the time, I was immediately taken by her. I was able to find enough material, because a lot was written about her and her expedition. People were really impressed by what she did. And she gave lectures about that expedition. She brings a whole different context to the 1878 eclipse — that this wasn’t just a scientific event, it really was a cultural event, both in terms of America embracing science and deciding that science was something that this democratic nation should get behind, but also in terms of changing American culture in some way, about how we think about science and scientists. And Maria Mitchell showing what women could do was part of that.
Do you think this year’s total eclipse will be as important as the one in 1878?
That’s a good question. As important, I don’t know. I do think it will be a bigger deal than anyone imagines right now. First of all, it will be a bigger deal in terms of just the press attention it’s going to get, and public attention and tourists going into the path of totality and the number of people who will find it a life-changing experience. I guarantee you, it’s going to be huge.
It’s going to inspire some small but significant chunk of young people to want to become scientists. You reached me on my book tour. At one of my earlier stops in Philadelphia, I spoke at the library there, and after my talk, a young man in his 20s came up to me. In my talk, I had discussed my experience of the total eclipse in Aruba and what a dramatic, life-changing experience it was for me. He was five years old at the time of the eclipse, he lived in Venezuela and the same eclipse went over Venezuela. And the guy, he was wearing a T-shirt from the European Center for Nuclear Research — CERN — and he said, “You know, that eclipse is what inspired me to become a physicist.” He intentionally wanted to emphasize that the point I made in my talk, that this coming eclipse could really inspire kids to get into science, was absolutely true. That’s what happened to him in 1998.
You’ve seen five total solar eclipses since 1998. Have you missed any?
I’ve missed quite a few. Some I missed for very good reasons, because they just went over Antarctica. After I saw my first two in ‘98 and ‘99, I had other priorities for my life and I kind of put eclipse chasing on hold for a while. So for about 10 years, I was doing other things. And it was as I was getting older, as I was sort of coming to grips with my own mortality, that I decided to take it up again. My mother died very young, at age 48. Obviously that was very hard for me, I was in my early 20s at the time. But it was really surprising [that] as I reached my mid-40s, it really struck me hard. It just really put me in touch with how much of life she missed out and how I can’t take for granted how many years I have left. And it was really because of that, I reflected on what’s important to me. And looking back over the years on what was meaningful, I kept coming back to that experience in Aruba and how that really was one of the most meaningful experiences of my life. And I decided, if I’m going to every eclipse I reasonably can, I’m still not going to see that many in the rest of my life. So I decided in my mid 40s that I was going to make eclipse chasing a priority. If I could reasonably get to a total eclipse with a reasonable chance of seeing it, that I would go. So I really picked it up again starting in 2012, when I went to Australia.
Do you plan to keep doing this?
Oh yeah, absolutely. I definitely intend to go to South America in 2019 and 2020. Those total eclipses will both cross the middle of Chile and Argentina, one in the winter and one in the summer. And then, the next one after that I think it’s not a very convenient one, that one goes to Antarctica. But then after that, the one in 2024 will cross the US, so I’ll definitely see that one. But the one I’m really looking forward to — so I hope I’ll be around for it — it’s August 12th, 2045. That one will cross Colorado. That will last over six minutes, and that would be just great. That’s a darn good one.
It’s so far away in the future it’s hard to think about it.
Normally, in astronomical terms, we talk about next week, next month, next year, but total eclipses happen on a much more leisurely [time scale], and so when you think in terms of total solar eclipses you talk about many years into the future. Eclipse chasing makes you look at time in a whole different way.
Space is in my blood. Growing up as the daughter of two NASA engineers, the conversation at dinner was always about rockets, astronauts, and propulsion systems. Fast-forward a decade, and I’ve come full circle. Now I report on spaceflight full time, but I’ve only ever watched from the sidelines.
Now I’m diving in head first and experiencing what it takes to really go to space. From the physical demands of being an astronaut to walking on other “worlds,” I’m exploring it all in our new video series Space Craft, directed by Miriam Nielsen and Kimberly Mas.
This season, I’ll be learning about some of the biggest aspects of astronaut training — everything from preparing for spacewalks in virtual reality and maneuvering in actual space attire. I’ll also get a taste of the types of rigorous exercise astronauts must do on a day-to-day basis in lower Earth orbit, as well as how NASA is helping to shield people from space radiation. And at the end of it all, I’ll finally get to be a passenger on a zero-G flight.
The first episode of Space Craft will come out on Tuesday, August 15th. Buckle up.

In very welcome news, Netflix’s wrestling comedy GLOW has been renewed for a second season, and will feature 10 new episodes. The series, set in 1980s Los Angeles follows struggling actress Ruth Wilder (Alison Brie) who becomes a wrestler on a weekly series in a final bid for stardom. GLOW, or Gorgeous Ladies Of Wrestling, was inspired by a female wrestling league and accompanying TV show of the same name from the late ‘80s.
Netflix’s GLOW has been heralded for its writing and break-out characters that, coupled with theatrical aesthetics and performances, have attracted a wide range of viewers — from women, to men, liberals, and gamers.
So far it’s been a hit for Netflix, which probably comes as no surprise given Jenji Kohan, show runner of wildly popular Orange Is the New Black is GLOW’s executive producer. There’s no word yet on when the new season will air, though Netflix did provide this 10-second teaser of shiny lips.
Here we #GLOW again... Season 2 is coming.
Gold accents are a tricky thing to get right in tech products, but I’d argue Audio-Technica has nailed them in its classically inspired navy blue and gold combo on the new MSR7 Special Edition cans. I’ve been a longtime fan of the regular MSR7s — which go a bit light on the bass, but are otherwise the most clear, pristine, and faithful listen I can obtain from a reasonably priced pair of portable headphones — so this new upgrade has me intrigued.
It’s not just about looks. Audio-Technica is trickling down some technology from the SR9 headphones it launched at CES this year, specifically the “specially-tuned” 45mm True Motion drivers with a Diamond-like Carbon (DLC) coated diaphragm. This part has me a bit wary, as I’ve never heard the SR9s and I can’t vouch for how much of an improvement, if any, they make over the MSR7s. I guess we’ll have to trust that Audio-Technica knows what it’s doing and isn’t going to replace one great headphone with a less great one.
The exciting part on the audio front has more to do with fit and design: Audio-Technica says the limited edition MSR7SE have new pads that are “shaped to boost the lower end sonics” (which is to say, give us the extra bass we’ve been missing) and will furthermore lead to improved noise isolation. Those two are highly desirable improvements in a set of headphones in this class. Only other thing you could probably ask for is for them to be wireless, but Audio-Technica has the DSR9BT for Bluetooth audio fans.
The Audio-Technica MSR7SE will be available from October for £299 (about $388) in the UK. That’s a steep price increase versus the £169 ($220) price of the regular MSR7s, though it’s still a reasonable amount to pay for a pair of really pretty headphones with refined sound. Stay tuned for my review as soon as they become available to know if that sound lives up to Audio-Technica’s pedigree and promise.
Islamic State allegedly used PayPal and fake eBay transactions to channel money to an operative in the US, The Wall Street Journal reports. The man who allegedly received the money was American citizen Mohamed Elshinawy, who was arrested last year in Maryland. The FBI claims that Elshinawy, in his early 30s, sold computer printers on eBay as a front in order to receive the payments through PayPal.
The details have come to light because of a recently unsealed FBI affidavit, which alleges Elshinawy was part of a worldwide network that used such channels to fund ISIS. Elshinawy received $8,700 from ISIS, including five PayPal payments from senior ISIS official Siful Sujan through his technology company. Those funds were used to buy a laptop, a cellphone, and a VPN to communicate with IS, according to the affidavit. Sujan was killed in a drone strike in 2015.
A spokesman for eBay told The Wall Street Journal it “has zero tolerance for criminal activities taking place on our marketplace.” The company is assisting authorities, it said. Meanwhile, a spokeswoman for PayPal said it “invests significant time and resources in working to prevent terrorist activity on our platform…We proactively report suspicious activities and respond quickly to lawful requests to support law enforcement agencies in their investigations.”
Elshinawy has pleaded not guilty to supporting ISIS, but prosecutors allege the money he received was to be used for a possible terror attack in the US. Elshinawy claims he did not plan to plan to carry out an attack, and he’s currently awaiting trial.

Google chief executive officer Sundar Pichai, speaking at a coding event for girls happening at Google’s campus today, emphasized the importance of engineers “building products for everyone in the world,” and said that in order to do that, “we need to have people internally who represent the world in totality.”
“I want you to know there’s a place for you in this industry,” Pichai said to the teams of young women who were finalists in a months-long app-building competition. “There’s a place for you at Google. Don’t let anyone tell you otherwise. You belong here, and we need you.”
Pichai’s remarks were especially noteworthy because of their juxtaposition with the controversy happening at Google right now, after a software engineer posted a diversity-related memo that went viral both within the company and in public sphere. The author of the memo, which questioned Google’s diversity training and women’s aptitude for coding, has since been fired from the company, and has filed a complaint with the National Labor Relations Board.
The public appearance by Pichai also came just after Google canceled a company-wide town hall meeting, which had been scheduled to address some of the fallout from the memo. The meeting was canceled, according to a report in Recode, after employees who had sent preliminary questions started getting harassed online.
“It's really important that more women and girls have the opportunity to participate in technology, to learn how to code, create, and innovate,” Pichai said.
The coding event this evening was co-hosted by Iridescent Learning, an LA-based nonprofit that has run the Technovation competition for the past several years. Google offers a variety of education opportunities focused on coding, as do many other large tech companies; this event was a part of its “Made with Code” program, aimed at young women.
Of course, as with other workshops, coding camps, and initiatives that tech companies offer, many of them still struggle with creating truly diverse workplaces, as their volunteered annual reports have shown. And Google has also been sued for its salary records by the US Department of Labor, which has alleged that Google doesn’t pay female employees fairly.
Pichai’s full comments are below:
Thank you all for joining, it's a pleasure to be here tonight with many creators, coders, and budding entrepreneurs. I think as Google we are really proud to host the event, but I really want to thank … the organizers and the mentors who spent hundreds of hours to get the teams ready for today.
Seeing the girls here tonight gives me hope for the future.
At Google, we are very committed to building products for everyone in the world, and I think to do that well we really need to have people internally who represent the world in totality. And that's how we think about it. So it's really important that more women and girls have the opportunity to participate in technology, to learn how to code, create, and innovate.
We participate in a lot of things. We work with more than 4,000 schools to help introduce over 700,000 students to computer science. We do many efforts around the world. In India we do a program by which we have volunteers who go to over 300,000 villages — often on bicycles — teaching women how to get online for the very first time. We launched the Women Techmakers program, which has provided scholarships and training and helps people attend conferences. We have done it for more than 50,000 people in the technology industry. And that's why we are also proud to host the Technovation Challenge.
I was surprised to find the girls here represent more than 100 countries from around the world. I think they've been chosen from over 11,000 girls. I think my job sometimes is hard, but I can't even imagine the judges who had to choose from all those wonderful, wonderful participants to get the winners here.
To all of the girls tonight, I want to say thank you for joining us at Google. I hope it's the beginning of a long career of building amazing things which we can all use one day.
I know the journey won't always be easy, but to the girls who dream of being an engineer or an entrepreneur, and who dream of creating amazing things: I want you to know that there's a place for you in this industry, there's a place for you at Google. Don't let anyone tell you otherwise. You belong here and we need you.
Thank you all so much and congratulations once again.


Microsoft says it respectfully disagrees with Consumer Reports’ findings on its Surface range of laptops and tablets. Consumer Reports has removed its “recommended” badge from Microsoft’s entire lineup of Surface PCs because the hardware was found to be less reliable than other PC brands. In a surprise report, Consumer Reports surveyed 90,000 tablet and laptop owners and found roughly 25 percent of Surface users have encountered issues by the end of the second year of ownership.
Microsoft disagrees with Consumer Reports’ findings, and Surface chief Panos Panay says the company stands “firmly behind the quality and reliability of the Surface family of devices.” In a blog post, Panay says the Consumer Reports survey is disappointing. “While we respect Consumer Reports, we disagree with their findings,” says Panay. “In the Surface team we track quality constantly, using metrics that include failure and return rates — both our predicted 1-2-year failure and actual return rates for Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book are significantly lower than 25 percent.”
While Panay has chosen to focus on the Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book, it’s not entirely clear what devices Consumer Reports even surveyed. The data is from devices purchased between 2014 and early 2017, and likely includes devices like the Surface 2 and Surface Pro 2 which were still on sale throughout 2014. Consumer Reports says it’s not recommending Microsoft’s latest Surface Laptop because of this data collection of existing Surface devices.
Both the Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book experienced issues with sleep reliability, and Consumer Reports claims some people have problems starting up their devices or have had them freeze and shutdown. It’s not clear if Microsoft’s firmware problems with its previous Surface devices were part of these issues or not, as Consumer Reports hasn’t provided full details.
Consumer Reports typically collects at least 300 responses in its survey data, and a spokesperson confirmed to The Verge that “our data on Microsoft was well above that threshold.” Consumer Reports refuses to break down its data to reveal how many older devices are included in its report, and the split between laptops and tablets.
Microsoft argues that the Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book rank high in customer satisfaction based on commissioned research from IPSOS, but that will do little to change Consumer Reports’ recommendation. While the product testing magazine previously reversed its Apple MacBook recommendation, there isn’t a specific hardware or software fault that Microsoft can address to help convince Consumer Reports.
HBO appears to have tried to pay off the hackers who stole scripts, shows, and employee information sometime last month. Both Variety and The Hollywood Reporter report receiving an email from the hackers containing a transcript of a message sent by HBO offering payment.
In that message, an HBO executive reportedly writes, "As a show of good faith on our side, we are willing to commit to making a bug bounty payment of $250,000 to you as soon as we can establish the necessary account and acquire bitcoin." HBO declined to comment to both publications, but Variety says it was able to confirm that the email was real.
Variety says the email may have been a stalling tactic, as the email was sent in late July before HBO had fully assessed the extent of the hack. That means it’s unclear if HBO actually would have gone through with paying the hackers, but it’s still surprising even to see the offer be made.
Thus far, companies have largely declined to negotiate with hackers, in part for fear of setting a precedent of paying them off. While HBO may have had no intention of paying, it’s unusual to see such a huge corporation engaging with a hacker at all.
Evidently, the payment was never made, and the hackers seem to either be looking for substantially more or to simply embarrass HBO. The Hollywood Reporter says it received an email from the hackers a week ago saying that “it's just about money. We have weeks of negotiations with HBO officials, but they broke their promises and want to play with us.”
The hackers last released HBO data two days ago, when they published the home addresses and phone numbers belonging to some Game of Thrones stars.
Microsoft is officially unveiling Windows 10 Pro for Workstations today. While the operating system was originally rumored back in June, Microsoft is providing the full details on the special edition today. As expected, Windows 10 Pro for Workstations is primarily designed for server grade PC hardware and true power users. Windows 10 Pro for Workstations scales up for machines with a high number of logical processors and large amounts of RAM.
The software giant is making four major changes to Windows 10 Pro for Workstations to support high-end PC hardware. Resilient File System (ReFS) will be enabled by default, providing more resilience against data corruption, and optimization for handling large data volumes and auto-correcting. Windows 10 Pro for Workstations will also include support for non-volatile memory modules (NVDIMM-N) with persistent memory. This means that read and write speeds will be as fast as possible, and files will still be there even if a workstation is switched off.
Microsoft is also adding faster file support into Windows 10 Pro for Workstations. Utilizing SMB Direct, Microsoft is supporting Remote Direct Memory Access (RDMA) capability so that network adapters can operate at a low latency without much CPU usage. This should increase throughput for file transfers across high speed networks.
Finally, Microsoft is expanding its hardware support in Windows 10 Pro for Workstations. Server grade Intel Xeon or AMD Opteron processors will be supported, with up to four physical CPUs and up to 6TB of RAM. Windows 10 Pro is currently limited to two physical CPUs and up to 2TB of RAM, so this edition of Windows is clearly targeting high performance configurations. Windows 10 Pro for Workstations will be available alongside the Windows 10 Fall Creators Update later this year.
Fidget spinners have exploded onto the gadget scene over the past few months — not just in the growth sense of the word, but quite literally. That’s why the US Consumer Product Safety Commission today released guidelines for both manufacturers and consumers on how to have a safe time around fidget spinners, particularly ones that contain metal and / or batteries.
For consumers, the CPSC recommends that fidget spinner users avoid playing with them around their faces or putting them in their mouths. It also recommends not letting children under the age of three play with a fidget spinner. When it comes to battery-operated fidget spinners, the CPSC suggests users should be monitoring the device when it’s charging, specifically noting that one should not charge the toy overnight while they’re sleeping. To be extra safe, the Commission adds that a smoke alarm should be installed, just in case.
The business guidance, on the other hand, defines everything from what’s considered a fidget spinner to the requirements the products need to meet before being certified safe for consumers. According to the CPSC, fidget spinners that are intended for use by children ages 13 and younger will need a Children’s Product Certificate. This means it should not have any parts that can be considered a choking hazard or use lead-containing paint, among other requirements.
The requirements are pretty similar to guidelines for other popular toys, but the TL;DR of it is: use basic logic. Don’t stick random toys in your mouth, and be careful about batteries overheating when charging your gadgets. You don’t want to be that kid who licked a fidget spinner and chipped their tooth (a real report filed to the CPSC in May).
And if you have any other concerns, we refer you to this CPSC prose to “live your truth” when it comes to this trendy toy.
#FidgetSpinners have small parts that can be a choking hazard. Don't put spinners in your mouth #FridayFeeling pic.twitter.com/Tstnjlw5Uc
Former Google engineer James Damore, who was fired for distributing a memo suggesting women are not biologically suited for certain types of work, is now branding himself as a brave truth teller. In what appears to be his new Twitter account, Damore can be seen wearing a shirt with the word “Goolag,” a play on “Google” that means to suggest the Silicon Valley search company is something like the infamous Soviet camps where prisoners were worked and starved to death as part of one of the 20th century’s worst genocides.
Google, which provides free meals, massages, and fitness classes at its Mountain View, California headquarters, pays engineers like Damore a typical salary of $162,000, according to Glassdoor, not including extra compensation like healthcare benefits, retirement savings, and equity. The company also offers its employees training opportunities, including volunteer sessions on subjects like diversity and unconscious bias.
You know, just like a Gulag.
#NewProfilePic pic.twitter.com/EaD4tKoH21
President Donald Trump said that he intends to declare a national emergency on the opioid crisis — the administration just needs to work on the official paperwork. This is the first time that a national emergency has been declared a long-term public health crisis, so it’s not clear how exactly it will help fight the opioid epidemic.
"The opioid crisis is an emergency, and I’m saying officially, right now, it is an emergency," Trump said at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey. "It’s a national emergency. We’re going to spend a lot of time, a lot of effort, and a lot of money on the opioid crisis."
The decision comes a few weeks after Trump’s bipartisan opioid commission recommended that the president declare the national emergency in order to “force Congress to focus on funding,” according the commission’s report. “With approximately 142 Americans dying every day,” the preliminary report noted, “America is enduring a death toll equal to September 11th every three weeks.”
The number of Americans dying of an overdose involving opioids has quadrupled since 1999, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In 2015, more than 52,000 people died of drug overdoses, most of them because of opioids. In 2016, under President Barack Obama, Congress approved $1 billion in funding over two years to help states fight the epidemic, but deaths from drug overdoses are continuing to rise.
Declaring a national emergency could have a few different effects on the opioid crisis: it could free up federal money from the Disaster Relief Fund for states and cities to treat addiction and overdoses, for instance. (Money from the DRF is usually used to help states respond to natural disasters like hurricanes.) It could also result in the deployment of medical staff to underserved communities, as well as the training of providers to treat addiction with drugs such as methadone. Declaring an emergency could also allow the government to waive certain rules, like the 1960s-era holdover that prohibits Medicaid from paying for inpatient mental health treatment in facilities with more than 16 beds.
However, it’s also possible the declaration could boost the powers of law enforcement: the administration could seize the opportunity to push for more sentencing laws, boost drug penalties, or even fund the construction of the US-Mexico border wall. Trump claims the wall would stop the flow of drugs into the country, but experts don’t agree with him.
In its report, Trump’s opioid commission — led by New Jersey governor Chris Christie — recommended against the tough-on-crime measures that Trump has often proposed as solutions to the problem. Instead, it advised the administration to expand drug treatment under Medicaid, push for the development of painkillers that are not opioids, provide law enforcement with the overdose-reversing medication naloxone, and broaden laws that protect people who report overdoses.
Additional reporting by Rachel Becker




Snapchat reported its second quarterly earnings as a public company today. It grew its user base and revenue, but not as quickly as investors had hoped. And its losses continued to widen. As a result, the share price, which had already dipped well below the IPO price, continued to slide in after-hours trading, falling more than 11 percent.
Snap said its daily active user base was up by 7.3 million people from last quarter, an increase of 4 percent. That puts its total at 173 million, likely a little bit ahead of Twitter and far behind Instagram — or even just Instagram Stories, a feature that copied Snapchat’s main product.
Snap’s revenue was up 153 percent from the same period last year, rising to $181 million. But the amount of money it lost also ballooned, growing about fourfold to $443 million. That meant that, while the average revenue per user it earned went up, the company’s free cash flow also declined.
Snap, like Twitter, faces a challenging landscape. The vast majority of new digital advertising dollars are flowing to the two biggest players: Facebook and Google. That makes it much harder for niche players to find a profit. (And yes, even a few hundred million users a month is niche when compared with the billions that come to Facebook and Google properties each day.)
As its stock price slides, Snap will have to fight harder to keep and attract top talent. That may explain why it gave out $245 million in stock-related compensation this quarter, more money than it lost all told on its operations in the previous quarter.
It’s been a tumultuous week for streaming services. Netflix officially entered the publishing world, Disney announced it’s pulling its content off Netflix and launching its own service to stream the company’s content, and NBC revealed that it’s shutting down its struggling comedy streaming service SeeSo. Put those three stories together, and they underline a trend we were seeing even before Netflix entered the content-creation business back in 2013: streaming services are expanding, proliferating, and competing, making it increasingly hard for anyone but the biggest industry leaders to sign on a big enough audience to survive.
The splintering of the streaming market makes sense for everyone but the consumer. It’s logical for studios to want their own captive, paying audiences, so they can take in all the profits from their content, instead of letting a service like Amazon Video or Netflix leech it away. It’s logical for streaming services to want to create their own content, to draw more viewers and guarantee they won’t lose all their license options. But for customers, the streaming landscape just keeps getting more complicated. Amazon has expanded its streaming video service with extra-charge specialty channels. Services like Filmstruck, Shudder, and Crunchyroll are offering focused micro-services to highly specific audiences. And more and more studios are moving into streaming their own work. But when every studio has its own streaming service, and every streaming service is its own studio, we’re going to continue to be barraged with micro-services trying to escape SeeSo’s fate. Will any of them be effective? It depends on whether streaming-saturated audiences can be convinced to sign up for 10 little services instead of one big one. So we asked the staff: at this point, what would it take to get you to sign up for a new streaming entertainment service?
I signed up for Hulu specifically to watch The Handmaid’s Tale. It was the first time I’d done that for one specific show, but investing in Hulu didn’t translate into seeking out what else it had to offer. I’ve crossed the threshold into thinking it’s totally valid to sign up for a service just for one show, instead of evaluating streaming services by their broader collection of content. I have zero interest in Hulu’s library of programming. Library shows come and go between different services, and they’ve been devalued due to their lack of accessibility. What matters is the shows and movies that will always be available — and for a Netflix or an Amazon Prime, that means the shows they make. So compelling, exclusive original content will be the key to me signing up for any new service. Now, if every studio pulls a Disney and starts streaming exclusively on their own services, things get interesting. In that world, content quality is truly the great differentiator — and it’ll be easier to pass on a Warner Bros. service after its last 10 years than it will be to forgo Disney.
I recently signed up for Comic Con HQ, a streaming service from the people behind San Diego Comic-Con. The service offers incredibly nichey programming that speaks to my specific tastes, like Alan Tudyk’s web series Con Man, Mark Hamill’s Pop Culture Quest, and non-original programming like Gene Roddenberry’s TV show Andromeda and Earth: Final Conflict. That’s still not enough to make me stick around past my original one-year subscription, though. I essentially signed up because of Con Man, which is entertaining, but not enough to get me to stay. On the other hand, my wife signed up for Hulu, which gives us other, much bigger exclusives like The Handmaid’s Tale, and hopefully, an adaptation of Joe Hill’s Locke & Key. Services like Netflix and Hulu are really making it clear that they’re focusing on building original series, which makes signing up for them a no-brainer, especially because they have big libraries to explore in the meantime. While Comic Con HQ sounds good on paper, it just doesn’t have the content library its competitors have. And as entertaining as Con Man is, I don’t see the service writing huge checks to get the next big show I really want to watch.
My knee-jerk response was that I’m not joining a new streaming service until it comes with a bundle that also gives me an extra four hours of free time a day, to actually watch the new content. But that isn’t entirely true. What I really want is a service designed first and foremost to meet consumer needs instead of studio needs. For me, that would mean opting into, and paying for, only the specific shows I want to watch, instead of getting inundated with thousands of titles I don’t want or need. It’s exactly what home viewers have wanted since cable TV was introduced: a way to pay for the channels they want, instead of supporting a non-optional bundle of hundreds of channels they don’t care about. The bundle model serves the company, which can claim it’s offering bigger and better services, and charge more for it. But so much entertainment these days is à la carte, and we’re finally moving toward the understanding that people value choice as much or more as they value variety. Give me the streaming service that’s the equivalent of Netflix’s one-DVD-at-a-time subscription: the streaming service that acknowledges how I actually consume shows, one at a time.
I’m too picky to try out any new streaming services unless they offer something I’ve been actively searching for, like access to great indie anime, those random films from the 2000s I sometimes want to see but can’t find on Netflix or Amazon Prime, and old Disney kids’ shows I rewatch out of nostalgia. Jumping away from film and television for a second, I’d offer up my Spotify streaming music subscription as an example. I was momentarily entranced by Tidal when it first came out, and I made the switch. But although Tidal had exclusive content from Jay Z and Beyoncé, it’s fundamentally missing so many more great records and artists compared to Spotify’s already spotty selection. After a few days with Tidal, struggling to find anything I actually wanted besides Jay Z and his friends, I had to switch back to Spotify, the dominating brand in the streaming music industry. In film and TV streaming, Netflix and Amazon Prime (Man in the High Castle, The Night Manager) are the giants, and it’s going to be tough for any newcomers to challenge them.
I don’t have the time, funds, or attention span to blow on multiple streaming services. Have you come to offer me streaming mecca, an end-all be-all platform with every ridiculous thing I want? Otherwise, I’m not ready to take on the daunting task of thinking up a new password I’ll have to recover in three months. The last membership I signed up for was uber-specific, a Crunchyroll account, because finding both Yuri on Ice and Sailor Moon Crystal in one place is more of an undertaking than it appears. Before that, I considered myself in a healthy, monogamous relationship with Netflix. I want to watch Game of Thrones and The Handmaid’s Tale, but not enough to invest in my own account. And between my contemplation of shows like Breaking Bad or Master of None, I’m also cramming episodes of Gossip Girl and Riverdale like a woman shoveling potato chips, hand-to-mouth, down her gullet. Great original content is all well and fine, but how much trashy goodness can you offer me? I’m all set for now, thanks. Maybe I’ll check out that new original show on my friend’s account.
I realize what I’m about to say will never exist or work, but hear me out. Because I hardly watch TV shows, there usually aren’t patterns in terms of what network they’re available on. Different shows strike me for different moods — the last three shows I watched span between TV Land’s Younger, Bravo’s Million Dollar Listing New York, and Netflix’s Orange Is the New Black. If there were a service where I could literally cherry-pick up to three television programs I want to watch, regardless of network affiliation, and have access to those on a monthly basis, I would definitely subscribe to something of that nature. Then a few months later, I’ll change the shows to match the seasons and moods. I don’t want to watch everything else — just the handful number of shows I have time for every few months. It doesn’t need to provide content recommendation either. I’ll make my own decision about what I want to watch based on my interactions out in the real world.
I’m going to admit something here that no one knows about me: I currently pay for no video streaming services. I share accounts with my parents (love you both!) and have some random person’s HBO Go login. I don’t think this guy knows I have access, but he’ll probably figure it out when he wonders who in his family watched every episode of Girls. Given my slightly covert operation, I assume one day, I’ll need to make a decision about which service I’m going to use and pay for myself. I’ll choose solely based on wherever I can get the most stuff for my money. I would never use a just-Disney service or a just-Amazon one, because I like some Disney content and some Amazon content. I want everything. Ultimately, if every studio or tech company becomes its own eponymous streaming service, I’d weigh my options with whatever has the most relevant content to me. Right now, I’d probably choose HBO Go. If the industry totally stratifies, I’ll probably subscribe to something random, and share my login within a group of friends, so we can all access whatever we want. Sorry, but I’m not paying for upward of three services. No way.
The last streaming service I signed up for was the WWE Network, which has three big things going for it. 1) Its massive back catalog: on the network, you can essentially watch the entire history of professional wrestling in North America, from weekly television shows to monthly pay-per-views. 2) An impressive slate of original programming: my favorite thing in wrestling is a network show called NXT, which features up-and-coming performers who haven’t yet graduated to the main roster, honing their craft at a tiny Florida venue. 3) The network offers a massive value: new pay-per-view events that cost up to $60 can be streamed by network subscribers for a monthly $10 fee. It used to be difficult and expensive to be a pro wrestling fan; the WWE Network made it cheap and easy. Targeting niche users, then offering them convenience, value, and high quality — that’s a playbook future streaming services would be wise to follow.
I currently subscribe to far too many streaming services, and part of me just wants to unsubscribe from all of them. I am tired of my favorite background television suddenly dropping out of the catalog, then having to hunt it down and find it on another service. As far as I’m concerned, the streaming market is just five services playing hacky sack with the same old content, over and over again, while I Google desperately for who’s streaming No Reservations or The Great British Bake Show these days. My biggest gripe is that Viki used to do this interesting thing where it was integrated with YouTube, and it allowed its community to annotate videos — essentially offering a crowdsourced subtitling platform. This was awesome, because there were all kinds of foreign dramas that hadn’t had any traction in the US and weren’t getting licensed, but there were niche communities who were excited to not only watch them, but subtitle them for free. Viki still takes advantage of the crowdsourced subtitling, but they’ve switched to a licensing-only model, which means that tons of shows are just no longer available anywhere. Long story short, the only thing that can get me to subscribe to a new service would be something innovative and unique… or, failing that, the unabridged 78-episode run of The Legend of Zhen Huan with even halfway decent English subtitles.
Truthfully, the answer right now is “nothing at all could get me to sign up for a new streaming service, please stop trying.” I already pay for Netflix (even though I rarely use it), and Amazon, and I use someone else’s HBO Go login. These three services put together already give me too many options, especially when all I really want to do is watch Vanderpump Rules until I forget where I am. If I’m watching something at home, I really only have the attention span for TV episodes, so I don’t think better movie options could entice me. Maybe if there were some kind of HBO bundle that also offered Bravo reality shows, I would go for that. Otherwise, I don’t want to sign up for any more things, and I don’t want to spend any more money!
Amazon has held talks directly with the owners of major venues in the US about potentially entering the business of ticket sales, according to a report from Reuters. If Amazon were to proceed, it could significantly disrupt an industry that is largely dominated by Ticketmaster. But as an alternative to competing, Amazon has also considered partnering with Ticketmaster on a ticketing effort. Those discussions “have stalled over who would control customer data” according to Reuters.
The report claims that Amazon views ticketing as “ripe for attack” and as a potential source of profit. The company already operates Amazon Tickets overseas, but hasn’t launched that business at home in the United States yet.
But Ticketmaster, owned by Live Nation, has a seemingly unbreakable grip on the box office at many of the largest and most popular venues. In an attempt to give itself an opening, Amazon has reportedly “offered to write sponsorship checks worth millions of dollars to the venues” according to one of Reuters’ sources. The online retail giant has also discussed a StubHub-like model of reselling tickets with one unspecified sports league.
It would take a company of Amazon’s stature to have any real chance of overcoming the long-running business ties between Ticketmaster and big event venues in cities around the country. But many consumers likely have a more positive opinion of Amazon than they do of Ticketmaster and its added processing fees that get tacked onto already-expensive ticket prices. (Remember that class action lawsuit settlement and all the free tickets people got?) And it’s not hard to see the appeal and convenience — and money to be made — if you could get tickets and merchandise together. Ticketmaster was acquired by Live Nation in 2009 for $2.5 billion.
The characters on Game of Thrones are multidimensional and ever-changing, but what happens when we categorize them by... beauty and goodness? That’s the really odd challenge that The New York Times recently gave to its readers. It asked fans to set aside the fact that Game of Thrones subverts traditional definitions of “good” and “bad” at every turn, and ignore that the majority of the show’s performers, as required by their line of work, are pretty much all above average-looking. But trying to distill seven years of story into a hot-or-not contest had one intriguing side effect: it revealed how audiences correlate being good with being attractive.
Spoilers ahead for Game of Thrones.
As of this writing, 92,216 people have eagerly voted on the poll, deciding that Daenerys is the best-looking character, while the Night King looks like something that crawled out of the sewers. Daenerys’ vicious, fire-breathing dragons burning and sacking cities must have only briefly crossed these people’s minds, as she only had a few points docked on the goodness scale. She’s not as “good” as Jon Snow, for instance, who primarily only kills the undead. (People also consider him pretty good-looking, too. Maybe the scene where he’s laying down butt naked helped him win points here.)
On the beauty axis, I was personally disappointed by Robb Stark’s score, with voters rating him below the likes of Jaime Lannister. I’m sure people have just forgotten what he looked like by now, because if we’re really going to rate the Game of Thrones gang by their looks, Robb Stark would have been a clear winner, even if he was a dead one.
Beyond the poll’s surface-level silliness, however, it also appears to reveal some insights into how audiences correlate the ideas of “goodness” and beauty. Moral ambiguity seems to translate into mild ugliness, regardless of how the actor playing the role objectively looks. Both Theon Greyjoy and Bronn were rated on the “ugly” side, for example, despite the fact that the actors themselves are anything but. Littlefinger, played by the suave Aidan Gillen, merely eked over the “beautiful” baseline — no doubt losing points for being a child predator and sly manipulator.
The quality of his character appears to have had such an impact that fans voted Littlefinger almost as ugly as Ramsay Bolton and Joffrey Baratheon. Setting aside their horrific deeds, camera angles, costuming, and hair and makeup choices for the latter two characters always seemed designed to portray them as traditionally “unattractive.” Littlefinger, however, as always been a smooth behind-the-scenes manipulator, and it speaks to the strength of Gillan’s performance that the character is considered as repulsive as Ramsay and Joffrey. Then again, boredom or just plain apathy might be a factor in other cases. Poor Bran Stark, who had been stuck in a meandering storyline until recently becoming the creepy Three-Eyed Raven, was also rated as unattractive by New York Times readers.
Distilling the characters of Game of Thrones down to these two metrics doesn’t tell us much, to be honest. The vast majority of characters were rated both good and beautiful, and most of the exceptions were extreme cases like The Mountain that warranted an extreme reaction. This may be a series of novels built upon upending genre tropes and expectations, but when it comes to the TV show, audiences still want to like who they’re watching — and the more attractive they are, the better.
All of this lines up except for the biggest outlier on the board: Cersei Lannister. Lena Headey’s character was voted both extremely evil and extremely beautiful; a character that upended the usual correlation. But perhaps that speaks to why she’s become such a terrifying force, compelling not in spite of the fact that she massacred a whole sept full of people, but because of it. Bizarre and unpredictable characters like Cersei are what keep us watching and talking about Game of Thrones through every twist and turn. Understanding that paradoxical love-hate relationship is something that requires a lot more than just evaluating beauty and badness.



Benchmark Capital, one of Uber’s most influential investors and largest shareholders, is suing former CEO Travis Kalanick for fraud, according to Axios. The complaint, which was filed in Delaware court, accuses Kalanick of “fraud, breach of contract and breach of fiduciary duty.” It’s the latest sign that, despite Kalanick’s recent resignation from Uber, the company continues to find itself immeshed in Kalanick-related chaos.
Benchmark, which was an early investor in Uber and has a seat on its board of directors, alleges that Kalanick’s “overarching objective” is to pack the board with “loyal allies in an effort to insulate his prior conduct from scrutiny and clear the path for his eventual return as CEO — all to the detriment of Uber’s stockholders, employees, driver-partners, and customers.”
The suit revolves around the June 2016 vote to increase the size of the board’s voting directors from eight to 11 seats, with Kalanick having the sole right to designate those seats. Benchmark says it never would have voted to allow for those extra seats had it known about Kalanick’s "gross mismanagement and other misconduct at Uber.”
According to the VC firm, this includes “pervasive gender discrimination and sexual harassment,” as well as “allegedly harbored trade secrets stolen from a competitor.” This is a reference to the ongoing lawsuit between Uber and Alphabet, the latter accusing the former of stealing its self-driving car secrets. Kalanick is also accused of hiding a tool to deceive local authorities called Greyball from the board.
This aligns with recent reports that Kalanick has been “meddling” in the search for a new CEO and is rumored to be angling to return to his former position. Benchmark is said to have spearheaded the investor push to remove Kalanick from the company after months of self-inflicted scandals thoroughly tarnished Uber’s reputation. Tensions between Uber and Benchmark have remained high, which Axios says has contributed to the slow pace in finding a new CEO.
Benchmark is seeking for the June 2016 vote to be invalidated, which would effectively eliminate the three board seats. If the firm is successful, Kalanick would be kicked off the board of directors, which would also likely put an end to his rumored return to the company he helped found.
An email to Kalanick was not immediately returned. A spokesperson for Uber declined to comment. Here’s a copy of the complaint.
67730336 de Verified Complaint FINAL by ahawkins8223 on Scribd
Update August 10th, 4:19 pm ET: Via New York Times reporter Mike Isaac, here’s Kalanick’s response to the suit. The gist: “completely without merit and riddled with lies and false allegations,” the former CEO’s spokesperson says.
a spokesperson for Travis Kalanick provided this comment on the lawsuit. pic.twitter.com/4wPpk48dVY
Axios reports it has obtained a memo that was sent to SoundCloud’s current shareholders on Tuesday, indicating that a pending reorganization proposal is “do or die” for the music streaming platform.
According to Axios, the memo requires shareholders to accept or reject a reorganization proposal by the end of Friday. If the proposal is accepted, then a new cash infusion ($169.5 million at a $150 million valuation prior to the investment) from boutique merchant bank The Raine Group and Singapore’s state investment firm Temasek will close tomorrow. Axios says CEO Alexander Ljung infers in the memo that if the proposal is rejected, SoundCloud’s ability to continue would “not be a going concern.”
"Financing of this size will enable to company to pay off its remaining debt,” the memo states, “while ensuring a strong, independent future... In the event that the transaction does not close and in the [e]vent SoundCloud does not otherwise obtain additional funding, based on current cashflow forecasts, SoundCloud faces liquidity concerns in the near term."
Should the investment deal, referred to as Project Sonic, close tomorrow, The Raine Group, Temasek, and all other existing investors would receive Series F stock, a special class of common stock that has seniority and preference, while existing Series E investors would have their liquidity preference cut by over 40 percent.
SoundCloud’s future has appeared uncertain in recent months, with acquisition talks from both Spotify and Twitter falling apart, platform issues causing core users to flee, and a surprise cut of 40 percent of its workforce in July. Atop all that, should this new investment close tomorrow, SoundCloud’s pre-money valuation will have decreased a whopping 77 percent, from $640 million in 2014 to $150 million. To date, SoundCloud has raised a total of $320 million.
According to Billboard, SoundCloud is banking on The Raine Group’s extensive expertise in media to help achieve profitability, as it has previously taken stakes in Vice Media, Imagine Entertainment, and video news outlet Cheddar.
In an effort to make pig organs safer for humans, scientists have successfully edited the animal’s genome to deactivate viruses that could be harmful to people. The research is an important step forward in the quest to make pig organs safe for transplantation — a dream that has kept scientists busy for decades and has the potential to save thousands of lives.
The researchers, including famous Harvard geneticist George Church, used the powerful gene-editing tool CRISPR-Cas9 and the same technology used to clone Dolly the sheep to create healthy piglets that can’t transmit harmful viruses. This doesn’t mean that pig organs are ready for humans just yet, but the study, published today in Science, raises hopes that the technology is finally ready to make animal organs fit for people.
The world has a big organ shortage problem: almost 120,000 people are currently waiting for a transplant in the US, and more than 20 people die each day waiting for a new organ. For decades, scientists have thought animals could solve the problem. But transplanting a baboon kidney or a pig heart into a person — also called xenotransplantation — has drawbacks. For example, the person’s immune system can reject the animal organ, leading to death. The other problem is the risk for infection: the pig genome is riddled with infectious agents called porcine endogenous retroviruses, or PERVs. These PERVs have the potential to infect humans if a pig organ is transplanted into a person, possibly causing tumors or leukemia.
In 2015, Church and other scientists involved in today’s research showed that they could eliminate all 62 copies of a PERV gene in pig cells using CRISPR. In this latest study, the team brought the research a step further: first, they demonstrated that PERVs in pig cells can be transmitted to human cells in a petri dish, and that infected human cells can then transmit PERVs to other healthy human cells. “Our study highlights the real concern and the significance of addressing this issue,” study co-author Luhan Yang, the co-founder of biotech company eGenesis, tells The Verge.
The researchers mapped the PERVs interwoven into the genome of pig connective tissue cells, called fibroblasts. Then, the researchers used CRISPR to edit the viral genome at 25 sites and deactivate the PERVs, so that they can’t infect cells. Finally, they used the edited cells to create embryos that were implanted into surrogate sows. (That’s the same technique used to clone Dolly.) This way, they were able to grow “designer piglets” whose PERVs are inactivated and harmless.
“We got perfectly healthy piglets,” Church tells The Verge, “so that’s amazing.” Church says it was a “pleasant surprise” to discover that the edited piglets didn’t get re-infected when growing inside a PERVs-infected mother. Some of these piglets are still growing, says Yang, and they’re still healthy. That means their organs wouldn’t risk infecting humans if transplanted. The research is basically a “safety check,” says Pablo Ross, a geneticist at the University of California, Davis, who did not take part in the study. “It removes the potential risk for cross-species transmission of these retroviruses.”
However, there’s no way those pig organs could actually be transplanted just yet, Ross says. That’s because there’s another major problem with xenotransplantation that this paper doesn’t address: the danger of organ rejection. Unless the pig organs are edited to also be more compatible for human bodies, it’d be too dangerous to transplant them into people. Church says his lab is already doing work on that, and expects to publish a paper on it soon.
In the meantime, the designer piglets should continue to be studied to make sure they stay healthy. CRISPR is known to sometimes cut pieces of DNA it wasn’t programmed to, and that could have negative health consequences. “Even with a viable piglet, we cannot be sure there were no off target effects until the pigs are extensively studied for physiological and behavior changes,” William Muir, a professor of animal sciences at Purdue University, who wasn’t involved in the research, writes in an email to The Verge. Luhan says the pigs will undergo “very stringent tests” to make sure the editing technique has worked as intended.
Still, the research is “very exciting,” Muir says, and it holds the potential to save “hundreds of lives a year.” Church says that clinical trials with engineered pig organs could begin within 10 years. And for Yang, and the company eGenesis, that would be an even more concrete step toward a lifelong goal: “We want to create a world where there is no organ shortage,” she says.
B&O Play often delights us with unique colors for its products, like its tangerine-colored H4 headphones. And today, the company announced that in honor of the fall equinox, it'll be releasing some headphones and portable speakers in various moody new shades. Who doesn't commemorate the seasons changing with new gadgets?
The collection includes the P2 portable speaker, the wireless H4 headphones, the H5 earbuds, and the A1 speaker. They're being released in shades of purple, brown, and dark gray. Beyond those colors, nothing about these already-existent products has changed. The collection goes on sale August 31st. The pictures tell the story, so here you go:
I do love the brooding purple H4 vibe, despite knowing the headphones themselves aren't great. I'm a sucker for color, though, and B&O Play seems to think other people are, too.
Uber's first employee, former CEO, and current head of operations, Ryan Graves, is stepping aside from day-to-day activities at the company to focus on his role on Uber’s board, according to a company-wide email that just went out.
“In the past 7.5 years of building Uber, I’ve learned so many different lessons, one of which is the fact that people who embrace uncertainty and change have the best grip on reality,” Graves writes. “In the middle of September, I’ll be embracing another big change on my journey with Uber and will transition out of a full-time operating role to focus on my role as a Board Director.”
water changes everything. #748million see last post por favor  (unrelated: playing with the enlight photo editor app, so legit. thx @tobygrubb)
A post shared by ryangraves (@ryangraves) on Mar 22, 2015 at 12:58pm PDT
In his role as a board member, Graves will aid in the search for Uber’s new CEO. That search is in a bit of a rut, which reports of meddling by former CEO Travis Kalanick and a dearth of female candidates. In June, Kalanick was forced to resign after a barrage of self-inflicted scandals cast doubt on his ability to continue to lead the company. Since then, a number of potential candidates have passed on the offer to step into his place. Uber has said it hopes to have a new CEO before Labor Day.
In the email, Graves stressed how important the next CEO was to Uber’s future, and that he hoped his own decision to leave the company as an employee wouldn’t distract from the search.
“So, why now? Well, there is no great time for a move like this one,” he writes. “But it’s really important to me that this transition doesn’t take away from the importance of the onboarding process of our new CEO, whoever they might be. My hope is that ensuring my transition is known and planned for well before our board's decision on CEO it will help to make it clear to our team and to our new leader that I will be there to support however I can.”
Graves is generally a well-liked figure at Uber. After serving a brief stint as Uber's first CEO from 2010 to 2011, Graves handed the reins to Kalanick and eventually assumed the role of Uber's president and VP of operations. But during the scandal-plagued first half of 2017, some employees complained that Graves was missing-in-action. Uber’s first head of human resources, Renee Atwood, reported to Graves, not Kalanick, throughout her tenure. This led to questions about Graves’ role in fielding complaints about sexual harassment that led to a company-wide investigation that eventually took down Kalanick.
In the email, Graves’ only reference to the litany of controversies at Uber was to say that he wished Uber had “taken more time to reflect on our mistakes and make changes together. There always seemed to be another goal, another target, another business or city to launch. Confucius said that reflection is the noblest method to learn wisdom, and fortunately, our new found reflection and introspection has become an asset to us and we have evolved and grown considerably.”
A price increase is on the way for Canadian Netflix users, with new users facing the charges immediately. CBC News reports that the service’s basic and standard plans will both now cost a dollar more ($8.99 and $10.99, respectively) while premium users should expect a two-dollar increase. Current subscribers should also expect equivalent price hikes in the coming weeks.
Netflix, which offers several different streaming plans in basic, standard, and premium tiers, has raised its prices before. US users saw a price hike in May of last year, which led to a significant boost in profit during the last two quarters. The new change will be the first hike to impact Canadian subscribers in close to two years.
While other streaming services like SeeSo are shuttering, and companies like Disney are preparing to launch their own service, Netflix remains a strong contender in the digital future. The company continues to pursue original programming, and it recently acquired comic book publisher Millarworld.
Wisconsin’s plan to treat Foxconn to $3 billion in tax breaks in exchange for a $10 billion factory is looking less and less like a good deal for the state. In a report issued this week, Wisconsin’s Legislative Fiscal Bureau said that the state wouldn’t break even on its investment until 2043 — and that’s in an absolute best-case scenario.
How many workers Foxconn actually hires, and where Foxconn hires them from, would have a significant impact on when the state’s investment pays off, the report says.
The current analysis assumes that “all of the construction-period and ongoing jobs associated with the project would be filled by Wisconsin residents.” But the report says it’s likely that some positions would go to Illinois residents, because the factory would be located so close to the border. That would lower tax revenue and delay when the state breaks even.
And that’s still assuming that Foxconn actually creates the 13,000 jobs it claimed it might create, at the average wage — just shy of $54,000 — it promised to create them at. In fact, the plant is only expected to start with 3,000 jobs; the 13,000 figure is the maximum potential positions it could eventually offer. If the factory offers closer to 3,000 positions, the report notes, “the breakeven point would be well past 2044-45.”
The authors of the report even seem somewhat skeptical of the best-case scenario happening. Foxconn is already investing heavily in automation, and there’s no guarantee it won’t do the same thing in Wisconsin. Nor is there any guarantee that Foxconn will remain such a manufacturing powerhouse. (Its current success relies heavily on the success of the iPhone.)
“Technological advances and changes in Foxconn's market share, operating procedures, or product mix could significantly affect employment and wages at the proposed facility over time,” the report notes. The authors warn that their analysis should be seen as “high speculative” given their projections out to 30 years in the future. “Especially for a manufacturing facility and equipment that may have a limited useful life.”
On the other hand, there is the potential that the report is missing some of the benefits that Wisconsin hopes to gain from this investment. The authors note that the factory “would also provide greater employment opportunities for the state's present and future workforce, and add a new sector to the state's manufacturing economy,” and it could be missing some of those compounding effects. Though the deal sounds expensive in the short term, the state could be looking for the long-term benefits of a bigger manufacturing sector.
Related
Lawmakers in the state seem skeptical that they’ll actually receive the benefits that Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker claims the deal will bring them. The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports that the state Senate’s leader has said he doesn’t have the votes yet to pass the tax package Walker has promised.
Scott Fitzgerald, the Senate Majority Leader, said the state needed to proceed with caution. “That's what we're doing right now,” Fitzgerald said, “is the due diligence to make sure this is a good deal for the state and a good deal for locals — and ultimately creates this kind of high-tech campus that everyone's hoping for.”
Microsoft is officially launching its Xbox Live Creators Program today, to let developers directly publish games to the Xbox One or Windows 10 PCs. The first games are available today from a special section in the Xbox Store named “Creators collection.” Only nine games are available right now, but the hope is that indie developers will publish basic titles that can be played across PCs and Xbox One consoles.
Microsoft has simplified the certification process for Creators collection games and no concept approval is required, making it even more open than the existing ID@Xbox program. That does mean that Creators collection games won’t be the usual standard found from ID@Xbox or regular Xbox games, and developers will be able to publish unfinished titles to the Store to receive feedback.
Creators collection games won’t get access to Achievements, Gamerscore, or Xbox Live multiplayer, and any developers wishing to access those features will need to move to the ID@Xbox program. The Creators Program is more designed for hobby game creators, instead of small studios that publish through ID@Xbox. Indie developers can use retail Xbox One consoles to create and publish games, and titles must be created as Universal Windows Apps so they can run on Windows 10.
“This is just the beginning,” says Chris Charla, director of Microsoft’s ID@Xbox program. “You’ll find creative games, some familiar styles, and some brand-new experiences; really, whatever these imaginative developers chose to make.” Creators collection games are available in the Xbox One Store and Windows Store starting today.
The UK is so into football/soccer that a British indie developer recently released a game inspired by the fact that it’s impossible to escape football/soccer. You would think, then, that it’d be the perfect market for the latest ridiculous PS4 controller cooked up somewhere in Sony’s halls. And yet.
Here are some things about the “Limited Edition PlayStation F.C. DualShock 4 wireless controller”:
Sony is releasing this deeply silly controller in Europe on September 29th "just in time to celebrate the kick off of another epic season of football on PS4," which makes sense as FIFA 18 is coming out the same day. The controller won’t be available in the UK, though, which doesn’t make sense.
Oh well. Probably for the best.
Chinese vendors are facing backlash for selling customized photos and videos featuring African children via Chinese online marketplace Taobao. As reported by Beijing Youth Daily, these photos and videos have recently become popular as a way to deliver messages for birthdays and other meaningful occasions. They can be purchased for as little as $1, similar to services offered on freelance marketplace Fiverr.
The photos can be ordered from any number of Taobao vendors, and show young children from African countries like Zambia holding a chalkboard with a purchased message, usually around 16 to 20 characters in length. Short videos can also be purchased, where a person behind the camera coaches the children on how to recite the message in Mandarin. For these photos and videos, the vendors usually request between ¥10 ($1.50) and ¥200 ($30), promising delivery within a couple days.
As Sixth Tone notes, the messages are popular both with individuals and companies that use the videos as an inexpensive way to create advertisements. In one clip, a group of children yell to the camera in Mandarin: “Want to see pretty girls? Use Jike! Want funny stories? Use Jike! Want GIFs? Use Jike! Only 10 yuan, really great!” Sixth Tone says other videos show children reciting swear words in Mandarin and advertising X-rated live streams.
The Hong Kong Free Press says some vendors insist on their pages that the videos are a form of “charitable activity,” but when asked about how much money goes directly to the children and their families, had no answer. “I am doing this out of the goodness of my heart,” one vendor told HKFP. “I don’t know how much money is given to the children. Sorry.” Beijing Youth Daily spoke with one photographer who said the children often only receive snacks or a few dollars for completing a batch of photos and videos. An anonymous source echoed the lack of pay when speaking with People’s Daily Online, saying, “The children get very little money from shooting such ads. Most of them just get some snacks or stationery as rewards.”
While some Chinese netizens are voicing concern over the unethical nature of the photos and videos, others appear to have no issue with the service. One person wrote on Chinese media website The Paper: “These Africans help to advertise, have also been rewarded, and have not been forced, what is the problem?” Shanghaiist, the international division of blog Gothamist, shared the story with the caption, “Racist? Exploitative? Or just good marketing?”
A vendor Sixth Tone spoke to says cultural differences are the reason why there’s such fascination with the videos. Their popularity, the vendor says, can be attributed to “China’s obsession with all things foreign.”
“Many people here have never been out of the country — they haven’t seen foreigners,” the vendor said. “So they think it would definitely be interesting for foreigners to do ads for them.” Likewise, a member from the China Africa Project tells The Huffington Post, “The vast majority of Chinese people you meet on the streets of Guangzhou have probably never interacted with someone of another race or ethnicity.”
Comparable video services have been found and abused in other countries. Fiverr vendors garnered backlash in 2015 for selling videos featuring Indian children that were targeted toward Americans. In similar fashion, the children posed with chalkboards that featured purchased messages, and they also read the messages for short videos. Many were obscene. Earlier this year, YouTube personality PewDiePie used the platform to pay two young Indian men to hold up a banner reading “Death to All Jews,” leading to the vlogger being dropped by YouTube and Disney.
Taobao has said it is investigating some of the vendors engaging in the practice, but only because certain videos violate China’s advertising law by using superlatives like “best” and “strongest” to describe products.
Uber and Lyft talk a big game about the end of personal car ownership, but they’ve always lacked hard evidence to back up their claims. Now a new study has been released that lends some credibility to their futuristic predictions.
The study, compiled by the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute, Texas A&M Transportation Institute, and Columbia University, focused on Austin, Texas, where ride-hail services like Uber and Lyft pulled services last year due to a local ordinance.
The study found that 41 percent of those surveyed turned to their own vehicle to fill the void left by Uber and Lyft; 9 percent actually bought an additional car for this purpose.
Rounding out the respondents, 3 percent switched to public transit and 42 percent switched to another, smaller transportation networking company. After the vote, informal community efforts sprung up and 12 app-based ride services entered the market. Many were short-lived, but some are still in business. (Uber and Lyft have since returned to Austin.)
"Our findings show that these ride-sourcing companies do change behaviors," said Robert Hampshire, a professor at UMTRI and lead author of the new study, in a statement. "While this study isn't generalizable to the entire city of Austin, or to other cities, it provides crucial insights that are relevant to policymakers.”
It’s an interesting snapshot, but far from the evidence of the wholesale demise of personal car ownership that has been the hallmark of ride-share company executive rhetoric for several years now. Last year, former Uber CEO Travis Kalanick told the World Economic Forum in China that this was the way the world was heading. “People will not own cars,” he said, “they'll have a service that takes them where they want to go.”
Lyft’s president John Zimmer agrees. He predicts personal car ownership in major cities will be extinct by 2025 — as long as autonomous vehicles emerge as a dominant force as most tech companies expect. “Every year, more and more people are concluding that it is simpler and more affordable to live without a car,” Zimmer wrote last year. “And when networked autonomous vehicles come onto the scene, below the cost of car ownership, most city-dwellers will stop using a personal car altogether.”
Uber and Lyft probably won’t lead to millions of vehicles left abandoned on the side of the road, but it has been shown to compliment public transportation. Compared to people who haven't used any shared modes of travel beyond public transportation, people who use Uber and Lyft own nearly half a car less — 1.5 versus 1.05 cars per household — according to a survey conducted by the American Public Transportation Association. And people who use ride-sharing services were more likely to also use public transportation and spend less on transportation overall than those that don't.

The gamepad controller for Motorola’s Moto Z line of smartphone is going on sale August 25th for $79.99. That seems pretty expensive, and unfortunately for those who’ve been awaiting the snap-on accessory, you’ll only have one place to get it: Verizon Wireless. The carrier has an exclusive lock on the mod, which connects directly to the Moto Z via the pins on the back of the phone for reliable and lag-free game controls. It’s available to preorder now and goes on sale August 25th.
The gamepad features two thumbsticks, a d-pad, four primary action buttons, start/select, shoulder buttons, and a home button on the left side. There’s also a 1035mAh battery inside the mod itself, which Verizon estimates can replenish your Moto Z with “up to 8 hours of extra charge.”
That sounds a tad optimistic, but for $80 it’s good to know that you’re getting something aside from a plastic shell and some buttons. Even the $300 Moto 360 camera doesn’t include its own battery. Plus, not having to worry about pairing a Bluetooth controller is nice — if you’ve reached that level of Android gaming.
Last week, the Atlanta-based convention Dragon Con released its ballot of nominees for its second-ever Dragon Awards, a wide-ranging list of novels, comics, and games designed to be “a true reflection” of fan-favorite stories published in the last year. Now, two nominees, Alison Littlewood and John Scalzi, have said they’re withdrawing their names for consideration, over concerns that they’re being used as puppets in a larger fandom culture war.
This year’s nominees have been widely split between enormously popular authors such as N.K. Jemisin, James S.A. Corey, Scalzi, and some lesser-known authors propelled onto the ballot by blocs of voters looking to score victories for their “side” in the culture wars.
Unlike the Hugos and Nebulas, the other major speculative fiction awards, the Dragon Awards are open to popular vote. Anyone on the internet can provide a nomination and then vote for finalists. That’s led to concerns that the results will be gamed by the political factions within science-fiction and fantasy fandom, because it’s happened before. Scalzi has been pointedly outspoken about progressive issues in science-fiction fandom and writing, and has been frequently been attacked and trolled by conservative and alt-right members of the community over his views. One particular faction of these fans calls itself the Rabid Puppies, and has worked to game another award, the Hugo Award, by stacking the nominees with their own set of works.
When Dragon Con announced this year’s nominee ballot last week, Littlewood found she’d earned a nomination for her horror novel The Hidden People. However, she wrote to the organizers and asked to be withdrawn after she learned it was “selected by a voting bloc who are attempting, for reasons of their own, to influence the awards outcome.” A couple of days later, Scalzi, who earned a nomination for his space opera novel The Collapsing Empire, also announced his intention to withdraw his nomination. “Some other finalists are trying to use the book and me as a prop,” he wrote, “to advance a manufactured ‘us vs. them’ vote-pumping narrative based on ideology or whatever.”
Littlewood says she was informed that she wouldn’t be allowed to withdraw her nomination. Pat Henry, the convention’s president and founder, wrote to her and said he was refusing to remove her name from the ballot, and that while the convention was aware outside groups were manipulating the results, “we believe that as we add voters, they will become irrelevant in the our awards.”
When asked about their refusal to remove authors, Henry explained in a statement to The Verge that one of the goals was to provide a long list of recently released reading materials for fans, and that “when an author — any author — asks to withdraw from the ballot, then the reading list becomes less. It’s less broad, less balanced, and less about the fans.” In 2016, Scalzi was nominated for his novel The End of All Things, and announced he would withdraw his nomination last year, and his wish to be removed wasn’t honored. Henry also says Dragon Con won’t release the raw voting figures for this year’s convention, in an effort to prevent vote-packing.
While this tactic does result in a long list of recommended books and games for fans and attendees, it potentially puts a number of authors into an untenable position of being associated with a group they vehemently disagree with, or becoming proxies for voters to vote against. Because the award’s organizers aren’t permitting nominees to remove themselves, authors have no recourse or agency in the situation.
In an email to The Verge, Littlewood explained that she was never contacted by Rabid Puppy founder Theodore Beale (who goes by the name Vox Day online), who put her on his slate. She didn’t know she’d been nominated until after the fact. “I had heard [about] the controversy around the Hugos and the Rabid Puppies,” she explained. “I have no wish to benefit from any interference in the awards and do not wish to be associated with the Puppies, so I wrote to the organizers with a polite request to withdraw.” While she doesn’t have access to the numbers that put her on the ballot, she “certainly gained the impression that undue influence was at play.”
It’s unusual for speculative-fiction nominees to not be informed about their pending nomination, which makes this situation even more awkward. Other genre awards, such as the Hugo and Nebulas, notify authors in advance before nominations are published, to give them the opportunity to bow out for a range of reasons. Some might not feel a given story deserves to be nominated, like when Ted Chiang withdrew his story Liking What You See: A Documentary from the Hugos in 2003. Others might not want to be associated with a political faction, such as Marko Kloos, who learned his novel was put on the Hugo ballot by a Rabid Puppy slate. A Dragon Con spokesperson explained that voting began with the release of the nominations, which means that the authors didn’t have an opportunity to exit before the ballot was finalized.
While Dragon Con claims to have taken steps to contend with ballot-stuffing, not allowing creators to remove themselves from consideration seems like a counterintuitive step. While the convention organizers say they’re trying to avoid the drama, this seems like a step designed to protect the reputation of the fledgling awards, rather than that of the authors it claims are the genre’s favorites.
All of this speaks to a larger issue, which the Hugos, Nebulas, Dragons, and many other awards seem to be facing: rather than celebrations of the best the genre has to offer, they’re pushed into becoming battlegrounds for hostile factions that wish to plant a flag on a particular bit of popular culture. Fans have already begun working on ways to change how voting works for The Hugo Awards to avoid these issues. If the organizers behind the Dragon Awards truly want their award to reflect the genre’s fans, they will need to take some of the authors’ concerns into consideration.
Meanwhile, voting for the awards has opened, and the winners will be announced at Dragon Con on September 3rd.
Update August 10th, 10:30AM ET: Alison Littlewood and John Scalzi have each informed The Verge that the award’s organizers have since been in touch with them to address their concerns, and they will now be able to withdraw if they so wish. Littlewood told The Verge she will withdraw her name from the ballot (although at present, her name still appears on the list of nominees), while Scalzi issued the following statement:
After I contacted the Dragon Award administrators regarding my intention to withdraw, the administrators got back to me and asked if I would consider staying on the ballot. They were hearing the community's feedback and criticism and were acting on it. Their decision to honor Ms. Littlewood's request to withdraw is a first example of what I see as their willingness to listen and learn, and is an action I applaud. To honor that action, and in sincere appreciation of the readers and fans who placed me on the Dragon Awards finalist list, I have agreed to remain on the ballot this year. I encourage everyone to vote for their own favorite works on the Dragon Awards finalist list.
DragonCon has issued a statement of its own, saying that it “will remove Ms. Littlewood’s book from the 2017 Dragon Awards ballot and re-issue ballots to those people who voted for her book. We believe that fans who voted for The Hidden People should have a second chance to vote for a favorite horror work. No new title will be added to the ballot.”
Update August 11th, 6:30AM ET: Author N.K. Jemisin, who was nominated for her novel The Obelisk Gate, has officially withdrawn from the award. On her blog, she wrote that “when it became clear that the opacity of the voting process was intentional — in effect, when I realized there was no way to know if my book’s presence on the list was legitimately earned through individual, freely-chosen votes by a representative sampling of DragonCon members (or SFFdom as a whole) — a gentle ping of flak warning went off in my mind.” A makeup ballot has been issued to voters.
Consumer Reports is stripping its “recommended” badge from Microsoft’s entire lineup of Surface PCs because the hardware was found to be “significantly less reliable than most other brands.”
In a survey of 90,000 tablet and laptop owners, Consumer Reports found that roughly 25 percent of Surface users have encountered “problems by the end of the second year of ownership.” Those problems include freezing, unexpected shutdowns, and touchscreen response issues. Reuters reported on the latest Consumer Reports reliability study, which was published on Thursday.
“These conclusions are based on our breakage rate estimates for laptops by the end of the second year of ownership, gathered from subscribers' experiences with 41,304 laptops purchased new between 2014 and the first quarter of 2017,” the nonprofit publication wrote. This is not the kind of chart that Microsoft wants to see:
But Microsoft is coming out hard against the notion that its hardware is any less reliable than PCs from other companies. “We don’t believe these findings accurately reflect Surface owners’ true experiences or capture the performance and reliability improvements made with every Surface generation,” the company told Reuters in a statement. Apple was found to have the most reliable computers in the annual survey, though it too has tangled with Consumer Reports in the past. In that case, the controversy was over battery life that failed to meet Apple’s promises.
The Surface products are positioned by Microsoft as the pinnacle of Windows hardware, combining top-of-the-line design with the best possible software experience. Most recently, the company has rolled out the Surface Laptop — the line’s first traditional laptop PC — and an upgraded, more powerful Surface Pro. Neither of those products had yet been released at the end of the Consumer Reports survey period. Instead, Microsoft’s standing was likely hurt by bugs and crashes that affected past devices like the Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book.
It was always a bit weird to wait for your Uber driver and then suddenly receive a text from an unknown number. “Where are you?” Often the driver would skip the anonymous text altogether and just honk their horn until you got the hint. (Literally while I’m writing this, a black car driver is leaning on their horn outside my apartment.) Like all tech companies desperately trying to smooth out modern life’s rough edges, Uber has a new solution: in-app messaging.
To send a message to your driver, riders can select “contact” then “chat” in the feed section of the Uber app. There, they can shoot a quick text to their driver about their exact location, or whatever else helps facilitate a smooth pickup.
And before you can say, “Isn’t texting while driving dangerous,” Uber has a solution there, too. The messages are read aloud to the driver, who can respond with just a quick “thumbs-up” emoji with one tap. Both riders and drivers will see if their chats are delivered and read, to confirm the other actually received the communication.
According to Uber, the new in-app messaging system will preclude riders and drivers from having to share their phone number with one another when they need to get in touch. Uber already uses an anonymizing technology to mask your phone number (and your driver’s) when you call or text outside the app, so it shows up as a random number. But while that technology is used in the US, it isn’t available in some emerging markets, which is what inspired Uber to build this new chat system, a spokesperson said.
Historically, Uber has been a utilitarian app, aiming to provide the shortest, most efficient distance between point A and point B. But Uber wants you to spend more time in its app and use it for things not directly associated with transportation. This includes Snapchat filters, calendar integrations, and using friends as destination locations. The company clearly desires to turn its core product into something more than just a way to summon a car. It also wants to be a middleman for food delivery, social media sharing, IRL meet-ups, and much more.
It’s also compliment with Uber’s effort to perfect the art of the pickup. A few months ago, Uber updated its app to allow riders to slightly alter their pickup location mid-request. If you accidentally say you’re in the wrong place, the app will let you essentially edit your pickup location even when the driver is already on their way.
Fitbit's rumored smartwatch is supposed to be available by the holiday season, which means we should not only have an official idea of what the device looks like soon, but also lots of leaks along the way. Today, Wareable published renders of the device that it claims will be the final version. The images look similar to a render that leaked in May. The watch will apparently be available in three color schemes: a silver case with a navy strap, a rose gold case with a blue strap, and a darker case with a black strap.
Feast your eyes on these color schemes:
The renders suggest infrared sensors that might allow the smartwatch to measure oxygen levels in the blood, although that same technology could also be a more accurate way to determine heart rate and heart rate variability. We can also see three buttons — two on the left and one on the right — in a similar setup to the Fitbit Blaze. Other than that, the renders don't tell us much about actual functionality. Fitbit CEO James Park did say on an earnings call this month, however, that the watch will have GPS, will be water resistant up to 50 meters, and will offer cross-platform compatibility, as well as “multi-day battery life.”
Generally, the device reminds me of a more square-shaped Blaze. I don't love it, and I hope this isn't the smartwatch Fitbit is planning to debut. I valued Pebble because it did different things with smartwatch design. Its thinner devices shipped with smaller LCD displays and looked more like everyday watches. This just looks like a fitness tracker with a display. Fitbit acquired Pebble and apparently learned nothing from its design team.
Instead, Fitbit wanted to take its Javascript-based software development kit (SDK). With Pebble's technology, the company says it'll have multiple apps available at launch with plans to offer a third-party "app gallery" where users can find iOS and Android-compatible apps. Spotify likely won't be one of those partners, although Park has said music functionality will be available in some form.
Maybe it doesn't matter that I don't love this watch. People buy Fitbits for fitness tracking, not fashion, and Pebble — while it tried to eventually market itself as a fitness tracker — was more for design-oriented people. So long as Fitbit's watch can handle activity tracking better than other devices, the company will probably have a fine launch.
The Pip-Boys are coming back. Today Bethesda announced a new “game of the year” version of Fallout 4, which will include the post-apocalyptic RPG along with all of its many expansions and add-ons. More importantly, the developer also revealed that it’s bringing back the Pip-Boy, a real-world version of the iconic wrist-worn computer featured in the games that works with your smartphone. The Pip-Boys will be available bundled with the new edition of the game for $99.99, and Bethesda says they will be “exclusively available in North America at select retailers.” If history repeats itself, you can expect them to sell out fast when they are available. Both new items will be available starting on September 26th.
Luxury phone maker Vertu, which shut down its UK manufacturing operations in July, is auctioning off its back catalog of phones. The collection is listed on Bid Spotter, and is made up of 105 phones from the Vertu museum, with devices dating from 2002 models to 2015 ones. Bidding starts at £20,000 ($26,000), and some handsets in the lot are finished in 18-karat gold, titanium, and stainless steel, while others are set with diamonds. What else do you expect from Vertu?
The auctioneer, G J Wisdom & Co, says the phones are a mix of concept models to fully functional ones, so some are not operational. The owner of Vertu failed to rescue the company from bankruptcy after offering to pay creditors just £1.9 million ($2.4 million) of the firm’s £128 million debt. Some handsets were sold for $30,000 in the company’s heyday, and offered 24/7 concierge services as part of the handset’s price. Just a year ago, the phone maker released its “cheapest” trio of handsets at $4,200 a pop — though they ran on two-year-old chips.
Given its history, suddenly $26K for 105 phones doesn’t seem so bad, though you can only wonder how much debt the company could have avoided if only it rethought the gold-dipped, diamond-encrusted handsets.
So sad to see @Vertu factory abandoned ahead of auction today. I have many happy memories of this place. Was a UK tech jewel once. pic.twitter.com/eV5mXmGlF2
I've never been a big fan of astronomical events: there are just too many meteor showers or planet transits to keep up with, and a slightly larger Moon just doesn't do much for me. But I have completely shed my cynical attitude regarding the upcoming total solar eclipse. The more I learn about it, the more excited I am to see it — and to photograph it. I'll be heading down to Nashville, which lies in the path of the eclipse's shadow, so I'll have the opportunity to get an incredible snapshot of the Sun completely covered by the Moon.
I consider myself an amateur photographer, but I’ve never tried taking pictures of celestial events before, and I’ve never even witnessed an eclipse. So I turned to a self-proclaimed astrophotographer Justin Starr to give me some tips about how to best snap a picture of the Sun — before, during, and after totality. Watch his demonstration in the video above and check out a summary of his suggestions below.
When it comes to setting all of your gear up, you’re going to need a pair of solar filter glasses. These are specialized lenses that block out 99.99 percent of the Sun’s light. You’ll need to wear them in order to spot the Sun in the sky and also to watch as the Moon starts to cover the solar disc. NASA and the American Astronomical Society have a list of approved manufacturers of solar filter glasses on their sites.
Once your eyes are safe, there are four basic things you’re going to want to use to photograph the eclipse:
Just as your eyes need protection, so does your camera lens. That’s where the solar filter comes in. These specialized instruments are made to fit over your camera’s lens to block out most of the sunlight. Most of the filters will turn the Sun into a golden or orange disc in your photographs. And you’ll need to be sure that your filter will properly screw on to the front of your lens.
Once your lens is fitted with a filter, set up your camera on your tripod and aim it toward the sky. You may need to spend a few minutes searching for the Sun, which will be tricky with the solar filter, as it blocks out basically everything else but the Sun. And no, you don’t want to take the filter off leading up to and after the eclipse. “If I did not have a solar filter on here, I could really fry the imaging sensor on my camera,” Starr told me during a demonstration. Even when 5 percent of the Sun’s light is left, it’s enough to do some damage.
With the Sun in your camera’s sights, you’ll need to make slight adjustments throughout the length of the eclipse. For one thing, you’ll have to periodically adjust the position of your camera and tripod to account for the Earth’s rotation and the Sun’s movement across the sky.
And of course, you’ll need to slightly adjust your camera’s settings over time. When shooting on manual, the three main settings you’ll need to worry about are your aperture, your exposure time, and your ISO. Aperture refers to the size of the hole in the lens that’s letting light into your camera. If you’re using a telescope to photograph the eclipse, your aperture will likely be fixed. For telephoto lenses, you can adjust the aperture yourself, but you’ll likely want to keep it fairly wide open throughout the duration of the eclipse. (Reminder: smaller numbers like f2.8 mean bigger, wider apertures.)
The exposure time refers to how long your camera’s shutter is open, which dictates how long your camera’s imaging sensor is exposed to light. When the Sun is barely covered, the exposure time will be pretty short since it won’t take a lot of time for light to fall on your sensor. That will change throughout the eclipse, though. “As the Moon begins to occult the Sun more and more, you will need to lengthen the exposure a little bit,” Starr says. “And that will be a gradual process, over the course [of the eclipse]. So you want to be checking your camera and your settings as it goes.”
The final setting to worry about is ISO, which refers to how sensitive your camera’s imaging sensor is to the light you’re letting in. The higher the ISO setting, the more sensitive your imaging sensor is to light. That can increase the brightness of a photograph, but it also increases the amount of noise, or graininess, on your pictures. Photographers usually try to keep the ISO number low to decrease the amount of noise in their images. When the Sun is still super bright, you won’t need a very high ISO. As the eclipse happens, though, you may need to raise the ISO to capture detail in the darkness.
Now, for those in the path of totality — where the Moon will completely cover the Sun — there is a brief time when you can take pictures without the solar filter. That time, of course, is totality. Take off your filter and snap some precious pictures. (Some filters, like ND filters, can also be rotated to let more light in instead of taking them off.) This is the only part of the event where you’ll be able to see the Sun’s atmosphere or corona, which is overpowered by sunlight at all other times. It’s going to be pretty dark during this time, so you may have to increase your exposure time and ISO.
But remember, you only have a few minutes before the Moon starts to move away again. Try to get as many pictures as you can, but also take off your glasses and see the sight for yourself.
Now, for those who don’t have fancy equipment to use, snapping an image with your smartphone is an option. NASA says taking a picture of the Sun directly with your smartphone probably won’t damage the lens, since the lens is probably too small. The problem with using a smartphone, though, is quality. The Sun will be very far away in your frame, and focusing on the solar disc will likely result in a bright, glaring blob in the sky.
An option is to put a solar filter over the lens when the Sun is mostly covered up by the Moon. That won’t get rid of the zoom problem, so if you want to upgrade things a bit, you can get a telephoto lens that attaches to your phone. Set your smartphone up on a small tripod, and place a solar filter over that lens to get the picture you want.
I may attempt a few photos with my phone, but my main focus will be the DSLR. And now with all these tips in mind, I feel fairly confident about getting a good shot on the 21st. Some other things I’ll be bringing with me include a blanket and sunscreen to shield from the Sun, even though it’s disappearing. Starr said I should also practice shooting the Sun a few times before I put my skills to the test during the eclipse, so now my weekend plans are set. Check back here after the eclipse to see how my photos turn out.
Blade Runner 2049 hits theaters this October, but if you’re looking for more grungy science fiction dystopia, there’s another Blade Runner-related project out there to check out: Slice of Life. In January, a group of Croatian filmmakers released a trailer for their fan film project, inspired by Ridley Scott’s original masterpiece. In order to complete it, they’ve launched a Kickstarter campaign.
Director Luka Hrgović told The Verge earlier this spring that the film is set in the same universe as Blade Runner, following the “lives of other characters that are trying to make a living in the dangerous streets of futuristic Los Angeles.” Hrgović says that the project is more than just a fan film: it’s an homage to other films of the 1980s like Alien and Terminator. The entire film is being shot with practical effects and miniatures, much like the the original film, and they hope to have it completed by July 2018.
The filmmakers say that they’ve been working on the project for three years thus far, and they’re looking to raise $25,000 to complete the full film. That money will go to build additional miniatures, a professional motion control system, and a soundtrack. A $10 pledge will get you a digital download of the film when it’s completed; other tiers include a making-of book, vinyl soundtrack, and more.
Correction 8/10, 12:45 PM ET:  A previous version of this article stated that HomeKit, Alexa, and Google Home compatibility is already available for Ikea's TRÅDFRI smart lights. This was an error. Ikea wrote on its website that users should update their smart light app to use the various assistants, but that update isn't actually out yet. Ikea issued a correction on its Facebook page. The company says its still on track to release this functionality in the fall. Thank you to Twitter user @jackniksmith for alerting us to this update. The original story remains below.
Ikea launched its smart bulbs and hub earlier this year with the promise of eventually supporting Google Home, Apple HomeKit, and Amazon Alexa devices. Now, it seems the company is following through on its word. First spotted by 9to5Mac, the retailer updated the bulbs' online listing to encourage users to download the most recent version of their app to use the various home assistants. "Make sure that you have the latest upgrade of TRÅDFRI gateway to be able to connect it with Amazon Alexa, Apple HomeKit or Google Home,” the listing says.
The update also reportedly supports integration with the Philips Hue bridge hub, which means you'll be able to see your Ikea bulbs in Philips' app. Ikea doesn't readily state this on its site, however, and we haven't independently verified. Additionally, 9to5Mac reports that the company will soon release multi-color bulbs, in addition to the white LEDs that it's currently selling, although we didn't see them listed in their fall catalog. In either case, it’s likely only a matter of time until Ikea fully fleshes out its smart bulb lineup with colorful options that match the company’s aesthetic. Once it does that, the company's home lighting solution will be the cheapest system available without compromising on home integrations.
Sonic Mania doesn’t just need to look the part — it needs to sound right, too. The upcoming game aims to bring the series back to its glory days, with pixel art and side-scrolling action reminiscent of the franchise’s 16-bit hits. But a large part of re-creating the feel of classic Sonic comes down to the music. Mania features bright, vibrant chiptune tracks to go along with its colorful, blocky world.
The soundscape is the work of Portuguese composer Tiago “Tee” Lopes, who actually got his start posting Sonic remixes on YouTube nearly a decade ago, before working with Sega on the next major entry in the series. “Although I wanted to make something that everyone could enjoy,” he says of the soundtrack, “I must confess that I specifically aimed to make older Sonic fans feel like they're kids again.”
Lopes was first introduced to the series with the Master System version when he was eight years old, but he says it wasn’t until he played the more robust Sonic games on the Sega Genesis at a friend’s house that he really fell in love with the music. “I'd hear it inside of my head for weeks after playing the game,” he says, “sometimes filling in the memory gaps with little elements of my own.”
Eventually he started composing his own chiptune-style music, and he learned in part by dissecting and remixing classic Sonic tunes. The process gave Lopes a newfound appreciation for the music he loved so much as a kid. “Dissecting [original Sonic composer Masato Nakamura]’s songs to create a remix really opened my mind to new possibilities and ways to provoke certain feelings in listeners,” he says.
In 2008, Lopes began posting his remixes on YouTube, and eventually he joined a fan project that aimed to create a high-definition remake of Sonic 2. Several people from that project ended up leaving to form the game studio Pagodawest, and they once again enlisted Lopes’ help to craft new music for their games, including mobile titles like the well-received platformer Major Magnet. Eventually they landed a gig with Sega working on Sonic Mania, and the studio immediately turned to Lopes for the music. “They decided that I was their guy,” he says.
When it came to actually composing the new tracks, Lopes wasn’t given much in the way of direction. Because the game was still in development, and the levels weren’t actually playable, the team would share some concept art or descriptions of what an area would be like when it was completed. From there, it was Lopes’ job to create music that would fit that vibe. “Sometimes it was a bit of a shot in the dark direction-wise,” Lopes explains. “Some of the pieces in the game took several iterations to get right, and many others evolved significantly over time.”
The goal was to make a soundtrack that was approachable to new players, but also had a style and depth that longtime fans would appreciate. “I wanted the songs to feel true to what was going on musically during the ‘90s,” says Lopes. “And I drew inspiration from and included many nods to other Sonic and Sega games that only true connoisseurs will be able to pick up on.”
With the project now mostly wrapped up — Sonic Mania launches on August 15th — Lopes is free to dream of the other classic games he’d love to work on. He spouts off iconic names like Mega Man and Castlevania, but it’s following the work of a particular musician that intrigues him most: iconic Streets of Rage composer Yuzo Koshiro. “That would be an amazing challenge,” Lopes says of working on the franchise.
After launching a well-reviewed and affordable 4K HDR TV with TCL, Roku is going back to low-cost TVs for the latest series of televisions that run the company’s streaming software. Today Roku and partner RCA are announcing a new lineup of HD Roku TVs. Three sizes are available: a 32-inch model costs $249.99, a 43-inch model is $379.99, and the top-end 50-inch model is $499.
The 43- and 50-inch TVs are 1080p, with the smaller 32-inch size having a resolution of 1366x768. These are meant to be no-frills displays. They’re not going to blow you away on picture quality. Like the bargain-priced Roku TVs before them, the selling point here is the easy-to-use software and the thousands of streaming apps that Roku offers. There’s also a TV tuner input to take advantage of the live, over-the-air TV features that Roku’s OS supports — like pausing live programming. But for most customers walking into Walmart, the pitch here is that these TVs just work, are intuitive, and get you to Netflix, Amazon Video, and other apps quickly. RCA isn’t alone in going after those consumers with Roku TVs.
“RCA has been associated with American innovation for almost a century and we believe consumers will enjoy the RCA Roku TV experience,” said Chas Smith, Roku’s general manager for Roku TV and Roku players. That might be true, but “RCA” is something of a zombie brand now. Technicolor owns the brand and, for these TVs, has licensed it to a company called Display-Vu.
These new RCA TVs are all available starting now from Amazon, Walmart, and a mix of other retailers including BJ’s, Brand Smart, ABC Appliances, and a store called Cowboy Maloney. I’ve never heard of that last one, but it’s an amazing name.
Former Google engineer James Damore says he has no regrets after circulating a controversial memo he wrote concerning the tech giant’s diversity policies. Damore was fired on Monday after a tumultuous 72-hours that saw his manifesto go viral online, with the document asserting that the gender gap between men and women in technology was due to biological reasons.
“It’s hard to regret it, just because I do believe that I’m trying to make Google and the world in general a better place, by not confining us to our ideological echo chambers where only one side of the story can be heard,” Damore told Bloomberg. “I’m definitely hurt ... It really feels like they’ve betrayed me in some way. The whole point of my memo was to improve Google and Google’s culture, and they just punished me and shamed me for doing it.”
The memo was published a month ago, but only came to the public’s attention this week. Damore says he’s not sexist or racist, and that he had shared the memo with “many” of Google’s diversity’s programs. Google runs a number of such programs, including resource groups that support minority employees including ones for Hispanics, Asians, LGBTIQ, and women.
Damore says he took in feedback and updated the memo as people gave him input. He claims that the manifesto reflects “the scientific consensus for a lot of these issues,” and says that management took action to fire him only after the document went viral.
Damore has since filed a complaint against Google with federal labor officials, and said he spoke up because he was concerned about how Google hired its candidates. “There were several hiring practices that treated people differently based on what their race and gender are,” he told Bloomberg. “For example, making it easier for someone to get into Google based on what their race or gender is.”
Though Damore says he considers himself more of a centrist, he has given one interview to Stefan Molyneux, a YouTube personality associated with the alt-right; and one to Jordan Peterson, a philosopher whose work is admired by the right. Peterson’s 50-minute interview has since been deleted.
“I’m not saying that all men are different than all women, just that there’s a distribution of these personality traits and that distribution differs between men and women,” Damore told Bloomberg. “There are very many capable women at Google and I’m not trying to say any of them are worse than any average male engineer at Google. There are simply fewer women who want to get into these fields, but if you’re a girl and you’re interested in technology, then that’s great.”
Google is holding a company-wide town hall meeting later today to discuss the memo.
Correction: This story previously overstated Jordan Peterson’s relationship with the alt-right. We apologize for the error.
Cords are today’s equivalent of yesterday’s ballpoint pens. We lose them, break them, and eventually, we leave them behind. They’re huddled in dusty, dark corners of airport floors, stained coffee shop tables, and swimming in strands at the bottoms of our bags, but when we desire them the most, we cannot find them as easily as we’d like. Without them we are frozen, helpless, limited. Cords are an instrument of communication, like pen to paper. Cords enable us to leave our mark on the world. They may not bleed, but they are messy. We can’t help it. We still love our cords.
Just look in any household junk drawer and you’ll find cords that have come and gone: relics of the camcorder era, laptops and digital cameras past, and outdated phone dongles. I’m speaking from experience. After a recent move, I found mounds of cords and wires, strung together in wily webs, a woven chronology in the way life had changed over the past decade as I cycled through fleeting gadgets. I found myself hesitant to throw away those old cords without certainty that I wouldn’t need them again. They were the only lifeline of access to an aging device, such as an old external hard drive in place of precious old papers. And so they made the transition from the junk drawer in the old house to claiming space in the new one.
As much as we say we long to be wireless in our phones, our headphones, and our speakers, the signs of our attachment to cords are everywhere. There’s a certain security in the cord. It’s the idea of connection, perhaps even dating back to our days in the womb.
A battery, no matter how sophisticated, is fleeting. When we have our cords with us, we are in constant pursuit of power, even when we are fully charged, as a form of security. We often discover our misfortune — the loss of power — when it’s too late. The opposite of being fully charged is dead. Cords, and our attachment to them, have taken on a metaphor weighted in existentialism. There is anxiety in being too far removed. We are in a relationship with our cords. The fundamental objection some people have to electric cars is because they imagine the pursuit of charging stations in the same way we seek out spaces for our phones. Committing to this cord means we live in fear of our own forgetfulness, like flowers on an anniversary.
How we charge shapes the way we live in ways that have become reflexive. It’s more than a practical question, one that we must consider every morning when we leave our homes. What form of charging will we be dependent on to sustain ourselves? Did we remember to plug in our wireless chargers? Sometimes we choose restaurants or bars only because they will share their power source with us, plugged in to precarious looking sockets behind barstools. At airports we resent those who covet seats in close proximity to charging stations. On planes, we are dismayed when the seat chargers often don’t work. On the most recent episode of Insecure on HBO, Issa Rae’s character uses a lost-and-found iPhone cord as an excuse to instigate a romantic tryst with her neighbor.
For over a decade “wireless” has been a tech buzzword. But when Apple introduced wireless earbuds last year, did it signal the beginning of the end of our attachments to cords? In December, Apple began to sell the Beats Solo 3 wireless headphones to accentuate its arsenal. If the rumors are true, Apple will challenge us to further disentangle by the time the iPhone 8 is introduced, if not sooner, as some have speculated that 7s may be wireless, too. And Apple is not unique in this latest takedown of electrical sockets. In July, Dell began to sell the first wireless charging laptop. While charging stations will tether our electric cars to cords for some time, Tesla Model 3 dares to be cordless in the phones that double as keys to power our cars.
How long will it take until our lives to become wire-free? The smart home beckons, but I say this as I stare at the elaborate twists and turns of my modem, router, cable, and power stack — an area that, no matter how hard I try to keep neat, stays a nest of haphazard wires.
In other words, when will Wired have to change its name to Wireless to be considered contemporary?
We’ve been here before, on the precipice of freeing ourselves from messy, dangling bits, only to return to them again and again.
The boombox was a revelation when it was introduced to American customers in the mid-1970s. Here was a way to make music portable. How much of our digitized style could we carry on our shoulders? The way we rock wireless headphones may be traced back to the height of the boombox era as a cultural turning point. Fab Five Freddy’s original Sharp boombox is housed in the permanent collection of The Smithsonian.
The boombox was followed by the Sony Walkman, as music transformed into a personal transitory experience. But to properly enjoy the walkman, it required a set of headphones, attached of course, via wires. And after cellphones were introduced, we became wireless with those awful Bluetooth earpieces. Thank goodness those have almost all gone away. And here we are today, semi-wired, with more sophisticated Bluetooth, still waiting on the decade-long promise of wireless living that evades us, like an unrequited crush.
Being freed from being stationary of course has made us more independent. Like our devices, we are on the move, free to roam far and free until we tire, like robot people. But as much as we’d like to think we are infallible, untethered, luminous, we are only human, and eventually we must be still. Eventually, we shut down, coil up in the fetal position, and like our gadgets, we must shut down, plug in, and recharge.



There’s been a host of leaks about the upcoming iPhone recently, most of which have been sourced from accidentally-released HomePod firmware, which also runs iOS. In the latest discoveries, developers have uncovered what looks like a resizable home button for the new handset, as well as support for Apple Pay authentication using facial recognition.
In a series of tweets, developer Guilherme Rambo found references to ‘Pearl ID’ (Apple’s codename for its facial recognition system) that suggest it will be able to store multiple faces and will be accessible by third party apps. The firmware also includes the phrase ‘multi biometric,’ which suggests the phone might support two-step biometric authentication for extra security. That would mean combining, say, facial recognition and fingerprint ID. Additionally, the firmware code suggests that both the front and rear camera of the phone will be used for facial recognition.
About Pearl ID:1 - The software definitely supports it for payments2 - 3rd party apps can use it3 - You can add multiple faces pic.twitter.com/aUotHwD64f
There’s more news on the virtual home button too, with developer Steve Troughton-Smith digging up code that indicates it will be resizable, and part of a “periphery area” that can be expanded or minimized, with the home button hidden as needed.
We know some facts re iPhone 8 home button area:• it resizes• indicator can be hidden• no API to change color• tab bars extend under it
The upcoming iPhone could also capture 240 fps video at 1080p, Rambo found. That’s a step up in quality from the current iPhone 7, which shoots 240 fps, but only at 720p. HDR capture is also referenced in the firmware as “ModernHDR,” but it’s not clear what exactly that means. Designer Olivier Charavel created a mock up of what the useable screen space would be like using measurements found in the firmware, with the screen showing a taller-than-usual aspect ratio and a notch for the front-facing camera.
Props to @charavel for a quick mockup taking these numbers into account. This is what I expect usable screen space to look like on iPhone 8 pic.twitter.com/wyCmfHtusO
Previous leaks have shown we can expect features like an all-screen front, silent notifications while you’re looking at your phone, and wireless charging.
Microsoft first opened up its Xbox Insider feedback program to the public back in January, and this week it’s making it easier for people to get access to beta system updates. While you could previously opt into the Xbox Insider program, test builds would only arrive shortly before being rolled out more broadly. Microsoft is now simplifying its Xbox Insider groups, and allowing people to progress through each stage to get earlier access to Xbox One dashboard software.
Known previously as Ring 4, the new Omega ring is the default for anyone signing up to the Xbox Insider program. It will allow participants to get a preview of a new dashboard update just before it’s available broadly (like before), but if enough feedback (known as XP levels) is provided then testers will be able to progress to the Delta ring. The new Delta ring will receive builds earlier, and if enough feedback is provided (and three months of activity) then the Beta ring will be free to join.
These simplified rings are still a little complex, and Microsoft is still restricting the top-tier Alpha ring to invite-only early access. “From time to time, our best Beta and Delta users will get invited to join the Alpha group.” Microsoft is currently testing out its new Xbox One dashboard with this smaller group of Alpha testers, and it’s expected to start releasing this to Beta ring testers later this month.
Microsoft is also working with game studios to provide playtests of unreleased games for Xbox Insiders. Sea of Thieves has been tested through this method, and Paladins will be available in the spring for all Xbox Insiders with an XP level of 10 or higher.
Blizzard’s ambitious Overwatch League keeps getting bigger. Today the developer announced that two new franchises will join the pro e-sports circuit, representing London and Los Angeles. The London franchise is the first announced team in Europe, and will be owned and operated by successful e-sports group Cloud9. The new LA team, meanwhile, will be helmed by Kroenke Sports & Entertainment, a company that owns stakes in a number of pro sports teams, including Arsenal, the LA Rams, and the Denver Nuggets.
“These two owners in particular will hopefully clarify a little bit how we’re going about building this league,” explains Pete Vlastelica, president and CEO of Activision Blizzard subsidiary Major League Gaming. “Which is to say we’re pulling the best from the worlds of e-sports and traditional sports, so that these owners can learn from each other.”
The two new teams bring the league total up to nine; in July Blizzard announced the first batch of franchises based in New York, Boston, Miami, LA, San Francisco, Seoul, and Shanghai. Ownership groups include both established e-sports organizations and big names in traditional sports. Vlastelica says there will be more franchises announced before the league kicks off later this year.
The Overwatch League looks to differentiate itself from existing e-sports circuits by emulating the city-based structure of more traditional sports leagues. In addition to having franchises in specific locations, the league is also looking to offer a more professional environment for players, with guaranteed salaries, health insurance and retirement plans, and housing and practice facilities that need to conform to league-mandated guidelines.
One of the goals of the league is to become a global entity, and eventually expand to 28 different franchises. So it’s somewhat curious to see two teams in LA among the first nine announced. But Vlastelica says that it mostly comes down to the market itself, which is both large and home to an existing e-sports community.
The two LA teams also represent the two different types of owners in the league — the existing club is run by popular e-sports organization The Immortals — which Vlastelica believes could lead to a natural rivalry. “I think they’re going to approach building a fanbase in unique ways, and I think there will be an opportunity, as a fan, to align with a team that speaks to you,” he says. “And I think a rivalry is a natural outcome of that.”
The Overwatch League will be kicking off later this year. The window for signing players started on August 1st and will run until the end of October, but there’s no word yet on when the first matches will begin.
Kaspersky is withdrawing its European antitrust complaint against Microsoft today. The software giant has agreed to make changes to the upcoming Windows 10 Fall Creators Update that have appeased Kaspersky and help its anti-virus software provide notifications and alerts to renew virus definitions. Kaspersky originally filed its complaint back in June, claiming that Microsoft disabled its anti-virus software during Windows upgrades and that the software maker was using its dominance to “fiercely promote” its own Windows Defender software.
Microsoft admitted in late June that Windows 10 prompts to install a new version of anti-virus from third parties like Kaspersky after an update, but it disables the old version if it’s not compatible. Microsoft now says it “will work more closely with AV vendors to help them with compatibility reviews in advance of each feature update becoming available to customers.” The software maker will also provide better visibility of release schedules for Windows 10 updates, giving anti-virus vendors more time to test changes.
One of the key upcoming changes to Windows 10 Fall Creators Update is a tweak to how alerts and notifications are handled for anti-virus software. Microsoft says it will allow anti-virus apps to “use their own alerts and notifications to renew antivirus products before and after they have expired.” Microsoft is also changing the way Windows 10 informs users when an antivirus application has expired. “Instead of providing an initial toast notification that users could ignore, the new notification will persist on the screen until the user either elects to renew the existing solution or chooses to rely on Windows Defender or another solution provider,” says Rob Lefferts, Microsoft’s director of program management for Windows enterprise and security.
All of these changes are enough to convince Kaspersky to withdraw its complaint. “The company is satisfied with the proposed approach by Microsoft to address the warnings issued by the Federal Antimonopoly Service (FAS), and its implementation roadmap,” says a Kaspersky spokesperson. “Kaspersky Lab is also taking all steps necessary to withdraw its filings to the European Commission and to Germany’s Federal Cartel Office, stating that it has no more claims for Microsoft to address.”
It’s a reasonable end to a dispute that looked like it would be decided by the European Commission, and both companies maintain a partnership for improving anti-virus software on Windows. “We appreciate the feedback and continued dialogue with our partners, and are pleased to have found common ground with Kaspersky Lab on the complaints raised in Russia and Europe,” says Lefferts. “We look forward to our continued partnership with the industry.”
Maven Gig, the car-sharing service for gig economy workers owned by General Motors, is expanding to a few more cities. Starting today, the service is available in Los Angeles. Later this fall, it will launch in Boston, Phoenix, and Washington, DC. And Baltimore and Detroit will follow soon after.
The program is aimed at drivers for rideshare apps like Uber and Lyft, and delivery apps like Postmates, GrubHub, and InstaCart. Someone who’s interested in driving for any of these on-demand services, but doesn’t own a vehicle, can rent a Chevy Bolt through Maven Gig for $229-a-week. The weekly price includes insurance, maintenance, and electric vehicle charging.
Maven first launched its gig worker product last May in San Diego and San Francisco. Since then, Maven says its customers have logged 170 million miles driving for various on-demand apps.
Just last November, Maven announced that it was partnering with Uber in San Francisco on a 90-day pilot program. Drivers could take out GM vehicles for $179 a week plus additional taxes and fees to earn money on the ride-sharing platform. The deal raised more than a few eyebrows at the time considering GM was a major investor in Uber’s main rival, Lyft.
Presently, there are a handful of options available to someone who wants to make money as a gig economy driver but doesn’t own a vehicle. Uber has a partnership with Enterprise Rent-a-Car in Denver, while Lyft, GM, and Hertz have a rental service called “Express Drive”available in 19 cities. (Uber just recently decided to scrap its auto leasing business after higher-than-projected losses.) All offer discounted prices to freelance drivers.
When it launched in January 2016, GM said that Maven would be its new “personal mobility brand,” reflecting a trend in the auto industry of spinning off new, millennial-friendly businesses as a hedge against perceived declines in personal car ownership. Since then, Maven has grown to 17 cities in the US and Canada, boasting 35,000 members who have made more than 45,000 reservations. Maven says that users in 11 of those cities have reported using the car-sharing service to make money driving for companies like Uber and Lyft.
In the game of smartphone hype, LG’s approach has been to concede defeat in trying to suppress leaks and just pre-announce everything. The company’s next premier handset, the LG V30, will be made official on August 31st at IFA in Berlin, but LG’s making sure we know its biggest selling point today: the camera. The V30 will be the first cameraphone with an f/1.6 lens aperture, which lets in 25 percent more light than the f/1.8 of phones likes the iPhone 7. Beside the wider aperture, the internal construction of LG’s new camera will include a glass lens, which is said to deliver sharper, more faithful images.
It’s not abundantly clear whether both cameras in LG’s dual-camera setup will benefit from these improvements, but it is obvious where LG is putting the emphasis with the V30. The company is doubling down on the multimedia performance that’s made the V series popular since its inception. Two years ago, the LG V10 was one of the most impressive cameraphones on the market, last year the V20 delivered the best sound among smartphones, and this year the V30 will presumably attempt to elevate both categories even further. That being said, the V30 will also have to go some way in improving on the design, which I felt took a step back last year with the big and chunky V20. To that end, LG has also revealed that the V30 will be physically smaller than its predecessor, but still have a 6-inch OLED display. It will have a 2:1 aspect ratio, like the LG G6, and a 2,880 x 1,440 resolution.
One of the additional improvements LG has made to its V30 imaging is a reduction in edge distortion with its wide-angle camera. The fisheye effect created by the extra wide field of view with that camera made it feel like a bit of a gimmick, but LG claims there’s now a third less distortion, “making it ideal for group wefies” (Wefies? Really?!)
James Damore, formerly of Google, gave his first interview since the controversy around his internal memo erupted to “men’s rights activist” and alt-right ideologue Stefan Molyneux. In the interview on Tuesday, he said that he had written the memo—which argues that women are underrepresented at Google due to biological differences—after an upsetting experience at a “diversity program at Google.”
“It was ... not recorded, totally secretive,” he said. “I heard things that I definitely disagreed with in some of our programs. I had some discussions there. There was lots of just shaming and, 'No, you can't say that, that's sexist,' and, 'You can't do this.' There's just so much hypocrisy in the things they are saying. I decided to create the document to clarify my thoughts."
So what was the program that set off Damore? A person familiar with the matter tells The Verge that Damore attended a voluntary one-day summit around diversity and inclusion. The program was free for Googlers to attend, but they had to sign up for spaces in advance. Far from being secretive, some sessions were recorded and materials were sent out to participants after the summit.
While we do not have the materials from that specific summit, the training that was offered was very standard, and may have overlapped with these slides and materials for Google’s Bias Busting @ Work, a workshop to help address bias in the workplace. The workshop’s resources are available publicly as part of re:Work, an open platform of HR materials used by Google.
Damore wrote in his memo that “[a]t Google, we’re regularly told that implicit (unconscious) and explicit biases are holding women back in tech and leadership.” There are two presentations on re:Work that have to do with unbiasing. One is called Unconscious Bias @ Work, and the other is Bias Busting @ Work. The first has been filmed and publicly posted on YouTube with over a hundred thousand views.
The second—Bias Busting @ Work—is more of a small workshop that takes place in a safe space, where participants are “supposed to make mistakes.” A slide in the deck reminds participants not to repeat what others say in the room.
The following slide explains that debating whether or not bias exists at Google is “off-topic” for the session.
The re:Work website only hosts a basic, customizable deck with an accompanying facilitator guide, so it’s possible that the actual contents of the presentation vary in practice. The Bias Busting workshop doesn’t appear to be a mandatory program for Google employees.
Update, 8:21PM ET: This story has been updated with additional information regarding the program that former Google engineer James Damore attended.
Facebook’s battle for television ad dollars is about to begin in earnest. The company said today that Watch, its redesigned video platform, will begin rolling out to a small percentage of users tomorrow. Watch features original programming financed by Facebook, alongside videos from other creators, in a tab that will become personalized to your interests over time. It will begin replacing the current video tab for users tomorrow in Facebook’s apps for Android, iOS, the web, and television.
Shows available at launch include Nas Daily, featuring a creator who makes a daily video with his fans; Gabby Bernstein, an interactive show from the motivational speaker; and Kitchen Little, from publisher Tastemade, which follows kids making recipes with professional chefs. Facebook also reached a deal with Major League Baseball to broadcast one live game per week.
If successful, Facebook’s push into video programming could represent a major new source of revenue for the company, which has begun running out of room to place new ads in in the News Feed. It could also pose a strategic threat to other big video purveyors, including YouTube, Amazon, and Netflix. First, though, Facebook needs to prove that its users will watch longer video — and accompanying mid-roll advertisements — inside its apps.
Facebook paid creators to make some of the shows that will appear in the Watch tab, describing it as an effort to seed the app with original content for the launch. (It declined to name the programs.) Over time, the company plans to stop funding original shows with up-front payments, instead earning money by taking 45 percent of the revenues generated by ads.
The Watch tab arrives a little over a year after Facebook introduced a dedicated video tab into its main app. Until now, the tab has served up a seeming mishmash of videos from big publishers and pages that you follow. The Watch tab puts a lot of structure around videos, breaking them up into categories including “What friends are watching,” “most talked about,” and “what’s making people laugh.” (There’s also category for videos longer than 10 minutes.) The tab is divided into two sections: discover, which suggests videos for you to watch now, and the watchlist, which collects videos for you to watch later. If you find a video you like, you can follow the show, and new episodes will then appear inside the watchlist.
In interviews, Facebook played up the social aspect of its video platform, saying the Watch tab enabled communal viewing in a way that other services didn’t. “What makes watching Facebook videos special is your friends,” said Daniel Danker, who leads product management for video. “You discover videos through your friends. You often find yourself discussing videos with friends. Video has this amazing power to bring people together and build community.” Every show has a comment section, and some are associated with Facebook groups where fans can discuss new episodes in detail.
For now, publishers have to be invited onto the Watch tab. Over time, though, Facebook expects to let anyone publish to it. Right now there are “dozens” of shows available; by the time Watch is available globally, that number will be in the hundreds, Danker said.
Will it succeed? Facebook has plenty of advantages at launch. It has 2 billion people with their eyes glued to its app, and lately those people have demonstrated a healthy appetite for consuming video. It has commitments from big publishers and entertainment companies, who are desperate to find large new audiences and sustainable new sources of revenue. It has a product team that excels at copying the best bits of other services and integrating them into its own apps, iterating on them over time to maximize their addictiveness.
But it has disadvantages, too. For starters, the marketplace for online video is insanely crowded. At the high end, Netflix, Hulu, HBO, and Amazon dominate. In the realm of user-generated content, YouTube has a 12-year head start in attracting creators and viewers, who are watching an hour of video a day there. And Facebook’s first big push into video, which centered around live broadcasts, largely sputtered.
For now, though, it would seem unwise to underestimate Facebook. The company is rich, and can afford to be patient. It may not deliver a brilliant video tab in the short term. But given the billions of dollars at stake, I expect the company to keep trying until it does.
William Gibson’s Neuromancer is one of the best-known works of cyberpunk, and has helped influence countless films, from The Matrix to Ghost in the Shell. According to Deadline, Deadpool director Tim Miller is now signed to direct a film adaptation for Fox, with X-Men franchise architect Simon Kinberg set to produce.
Miller and Kinberg seems like an ideal pairing to take on the film. Neuromancer is a famously gritty cyberpunk thriller, and Miller’s direction with Deadpool shows that he’s certainly capable of delivering the sort of stylistic take Gibson’s world deserves. Kinberg, on the other hand, is a go-to favorite for Fox, having written and overseen the latest run of X-Men films. (Miller has also been attached to a potential reboot of James Cameron’s Terminator franchise, but it’s not clear when or if that will happen.)
Gibson published Neuromancer in 1984, which follows a former hacker named Henry Dorsett Case, who lives in Chiba City, Japan. Poisoned by a former employer, Case finds himself unable to enter the novel’s virtual world, known as the “Matrix.” But then an ex-military officer approaches him with an offer he can’t refuse: hack a massive AI in orbit, and he’ll cure Case.
The novel helped establish Gibson as one of the genre’s best writers, and has been particularly influential for not only setting the tone of gritty, cyberpunk dystopias, but also popularizing the term “cyberspace” itself. Neuromancer has long been a target for adaptation, but has never made it before cameras: Torque director Joseph Kahn was in line to direct in 2007, while Cube and Splice director Vincenzo Natali was later attached to the project.

Scientists have identified two new species of ancient gliding mammals that lived about 160 million years ago, when dinosaurs roamed the Earth. The very well-preserved fossils provide important clues about how diverse prehistoric mammals were. The gliding critters, which resembled today’s flying squirrels, had taken to the sky to possibly escape predatory dinos on the ground.
The new species, described in two papers published today in Nature, belong to an extinct branch of mammals. They’re not the first mammalian gliders known to have lived alongside dinosaurs, but they’re incredibly well preserved, featuring peculiar body characteristics. One species, called Maiopatagium furculiferum, had fossilized a wing membrane and fused wishbones reminiscent of birds, but shoulder girdles that looked like those of platypuses. Its teeth also suggest the animal fed on soft plant parts. The other species, called Vilevolodon diplomylos, had similar molars to modern seed-eating squirrels, suggesting a more seed-based diet.
The first mammals evolved roughly 210 million years ago, according to Reuters, and they were incredibly diverse: ancient mammals were tree climbers, swimmers, burrowers, and gliders. That means the animals covered different ecological niches, just like modern mammals, even if dinosaurs still dominated the landscape. The new species described today add to our knowledge of what some mammal ancestors looked like.
The two new species were unearthed in China, and lived more than 100 million years before bats — today’s only flying mammals — appeared. They probably evolved into gliders to avoid being eaten by ground-roaming predators like large dinosaurs, or to access food high in the trees.
They also show us how much we have left to discover about our planet’s past. “I expect we’re going to keep finding more strange things,” Guillermo Rougier, a paleontologist at the University of Louisville, told The New York Times.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk has been teasing an electric semi truck for a while now, ahead of an official unveiling this fall. But a report in Reuters adds a new, if somewhat unsurprising, wrinkle to the mix: the Tesla big rig is probably going to have self-driving capabilities.
Reuters has seen emails between Tesla and the Nevada DMV where the two sides discussed “potential road tests” of the truck’s self-driving capabilities. The information also apparently describes Tesla’s desire to create long-haul electric semis that can drive themselves in “platoons,” potentially following behind a lead truck piloted by a human driver.
The idea that Tesla is working on incorporating self-driving technology into its upcoming semi truck falls in line with how aggressive the company has been at building the same tech into its consumer cars. Tesla offers semi-autonomous features on all of its current models in the form of Autopilot, which costs an additional $5,000 at the time of purchase. It also offers a $3,000 “full self-driving” option, which the company says will be activated once the software is ready. (Tesla claims that all of its cars are already equipped with the hardware necessary for full autonomy.)
What is surprising is that Tesla appears ready to test this technology. The state of Nevada is a likely partner, as it’s one of the few in the country that actually gives out licenses for autonomous vehicle testing. It was also the first state to allow self-driving big rigs to test in 2015 when Daimler acquired two AV licenses for its own Freightliner Inspiration Truck. Volvo is working on adding autonomous capabilities to its own trucking fleet, too.
Autonomy is also a common theme for the Silicon Valley companies that have dipped into the trucking world. In 2016, Uber acquired self-driving truck company Otto, which was led by a former high-profile employee of Google’s own self-driving project. (That employee is now currently at the center of a legal battle between Google’s parent company and Uber.) And Waymo, the company that blossomed out of Google’s self-driving car project, is working on its own self-driving truck program.
Tesla is planning an official reveal of the semi truck in September, so that’s when we’ll likely learn just how far the company wants to push this new part of its self-driving ambitions.

I've written about so many different pod gadgets that I'm starting to lose track of what does and doesn't exist. Is a mac and cheese pod reality or my imagination? What about cookie pods? Help! Anyway, a company called Wim Yogurt is trying to make frozen yogurt pods a thing. Bloomberg published a feature this week on their efforts to create a $299 pod gadget that can produce the flavored frozen treat.
The device, called the Wim, looks slightly like a Kitchen Aid. It even weighs 15 pounds, so it's more of a statement piece than an appliance you'll stuff in a cabinet. The Wim isn't Wi-Fi or Bluetooth compatible, which is refreshing, even if it means you can't remotely produce frozen yogurt. You have to work for it.
The device only handles proprietary yogurt mixes — aka Wim-Bowls — that have freeze-dried cultured dairy and come in various flavors, like passion fruit and brownie batter. Users have to provide their own milk, although the device works with any milk, including almond and coconut. Each bowl ranges from $3.80 to $3.00, depending on how many you order at once, and serves one person. No subscription service is available.
The freezing process is somewhat secretive. Bloomberg only describes it as "an elaborate cooling system" that gets "cold at the press of [a] button with zero refrigerant." Wim says on its website that the "patent-pending cooling technology" takes a Wim-Bowl from "room temperature to minus 10 degrees Celsius in 90 seconds." The actual process takes 10 minutes, although the froyo is edible after four. All of this is to say, Wim is treating its science as secretive and isn't readily providing details. You can watch this video on the process and let me know if you have an idea of how it works:
There you have it: frozen yogurt pods. The device and bowls are available now through Wim's website and will be coming to Amazon this fall. What's the next food that we'll turn into pod technology in a quest to simplify our lives? I'm pulling for mac and cheese pods, and no, I'm not counting microwaveable instant bowls. Maybe pancake pods? I don't know! The options are endless.
Put on your headphones and get ready to take a 25-minute ride to chill town, because the newest player in the YouTube ASMR genre is here: Ikea.
Ikea’s latest ads are part of a campaign called “Oddly Ikea,” created to highlight back-to-school items for college dorms like duvets and lamps. Close your eyes and listen to a soothing (and slightly creepy) woman’s voice telling you all about the SKUBB closet organizer as she gently caresses its shelving units. Listen to her nails grazing the grooves of the JANSJÖ desk lamp as she coos at you about the 25,000 hours of light its LEDs provide, for only $12.99 at your local Ikea.
ASMR is sometimes described as “head orgasms” or the tingly, relaxing sensation that can be triggered by soft voices or ambient sounds. The sensory experience has gained popularity on YouTube, which is filled with whispering videos and hands kneading slime (a personal favorite). Type “ASMR” into the YouTube search box and it autofills to mundane activities like “sleep,” “tapping,” and “eating,” all of which are conveniently bases that can be covered with Ikea products.
If you can’t love yourself enough to allot just 25 minutes of self-care, there are five more of these videos in more bite-sized portions on their YouTube channel.
The company is planning on adding more ASMR videos weekly until September 5th, at which point all the college kids should be settled into their Ikea-furnished dorm rooms nicely. Kids, if you’re going to college this fall, let us know if your roommates end up caressing their duvets the way this lady does in the commercials.
A leader in this decade’s electric vehicle push, the Nissan Leaf has been left behind by newer models with bigger batteries and more exciting designs. A new version should help keep Nissan in the game, but a low price may help, too.
Already caught in production form ahead of a September unveiling, the new Leaf’s pricing has also reportedly been leaked, as Autoblog has obtained some pricing and specification information for Nissan’s new EV.
According to information now removed from the Autobytel website, the 2018 Leaf is expected to start from $29,995 for a base model S, rising to $36,200 for a top-level Leaf SL. That means the Leaf should start at $5,000 less than the least-expensive Tesla Model 3 (although early examples of that car will be significantly more expensive) and nearly $7,000 less expensive than the Chevrolet Bolt.
However, there’s a catch: the specs show the Leaf will come with a 40kWh battery to start, which is smaller than both the Bolt and Model 3, although an upgrade the 30kWh setup in the current Leaf. Considering the current Leaf is rated at just 107 miles on a charge and Nissan has been promising a 200-mile range for the new car, the 40kWh battery may serve as a cheaper option compared to future variants that may be added.
Other specifications revealed show the 2018 Leaf should have 147 horsepower with 236 pound-feet of torque, also a useful bump over the current Leaf, but well short of the Bolt’s 200 horsepower.
The new Leaf is expected to showcase Nissan’s ProPilot semi-autonomous driving system, although it’s unclear on which versions of the car it will be available.
Full details on the 2018 Leaf aren’t due until September 5th. While it looks to be an improvement over the now-dated first-generation model, it’s unclear now if it will be able to be an EV leader once the Bolt and Model 3 are established.

The Coen brothers are working on their first anthology series for Netflix, the streaming service announced today. In a statement about the new show, which will be set in the “American West,” Joel and Ethan Coen said, “We are streaming motherfuckers!”
The series, currently titled The Ballad of Buster Scruggs, will be six episodes long, with each episode telling a different story about life in the Wild West. The Coens will write and executive produce the show.
Netflix hasn’t released many details about the show yet, but Tim Blake Nelson (O Brother, Where Art Thou?) will play title character Buster Scruggs.
As Netflix expands its original programming, the company has been attracting several big names in both film and TV. David Fincher is currently working on a Netflix series called Mindhunter, while Ava DuVernay is working on her second project with the streaming service — a miniseries about the Central Park Five.
The Ballad of Buster Scruggs is scheduled to premiere on Netflix sometime in 2018.
At the start of 2016, NBC launched a standalone comedy streaming service called SeeSo, and now that experiment has come to an end. The service, which offered animated and live-action comedy for $3.99 a month, announced in a Facebook post today that it would be ending operations “later this year.”
The post is addressed to “SeeSo-ers”: “Though we will be departing, much of our comedy will live on — and some of your favorite Seeso Originals have already found a new home,” the post reads.
Earlier this week, Paste reported that SeeSo was selling some of its original series, like HarmonQuest, My Brother, My Brother and Me, and Hidden America with Jonah Ray, to the anime, sci-fi, and fantasy streaming service VRV. It’s not clear what’s happening with all of SeeSo’s shows, but today’s announcement post notes that the upcoming series There’s... Johnny! won’t be premiering this month as originally scheduled.
SeeSo, a niche service that struggled to compete with streaming giants like Amazon and Netflix, has been in trouble for a while. This past June, a “handful” of SeeSo employees were laid off, and Deadline reported that the company was reconsidering its business model.
Disclosure: NBCUniversal is a minority investor in Vox Media, which owns this website.
Tesla has quietly developed a new hardware suite with more computing power to help achieve its goal of full automation, according to Electrek. The updated onboard computer, dubbed “HW 2.5,” would seem to contradict the previous vow by Tesla CEO Elon Musk that all vehicles released since October 2016 would have the hardware necessary to achieve “full self-driving capabilities.”
Last year, Musk promised that once Tesla’s Autopilot system had accumulated enough real-world telemetry and data, the company would push out an over-the-air software update to all Tesla vehicles to enable full autonomy. The announcement conjured up a fantastical vision of Musk flipping a switch to suddenly transform all of the Tesla vehicles on the road into self-driving robots. Now it appears that Tesla is hedging its bets by holding this new hardware suite in the wings in the off-chance its current system proves inadequate.
On its website and in its dealerships, Tesla offers the option of “full self-driving capability” for $48 a month or $4,000 after delivery for the Model S. “Please note that Self-driving functionality is dependent on extensive software validation and regulatory approval, which may vary widely by jurisdiction,” the automaker notes on its website.
In a statement, a Tesla spokesperson confirmed the existence of HW 2.5, but played down its significance. “The internal name HW 2.5 is an overstatement, and instead it should be called something more like HW 2.1,” the spokesperson said. “This hardware set has some added computing and wiring redundancy, which very slightly improves reliability, but it does not have an additional Pascal GPU.”
He added that all new Model S, X, and 3 vehicles ordered today will be delivered with the new hardware suite, and promised to upgrade any current HW 2.0-equipped Tesla on the road today with HW 2.5 if full autonomy is unachievable.
“However, we still expect to achieve full self-driving capability with safety more than twice as good as the average human driver without making any hardware changes to HW 2.0,” the spokesperson said. “If this does not turn out to be the case, which we think is highly unlikely, we will upgrade customers to the 2.5 computer at no cost.”
Let’s take a step back and remember what Tesla promised last year:
We are excited to announce that, as of today, all Tesla vehicles produced in our factory – including Model 3 – will have the hardware needed for full self-driving capability at a safety level substantially greater than that of a human driver. Eight surround cameras provide 360 degree visibility around the car at up to 250 meters of range. Twelve updated ultrasonic sensors complement this vision, allowing for detection of both hard and soft objects at nearly twice the distance of the prior system. A forward-facing radar with enhanced processing provides additional data about the world on a redundant wavelength, capable of seeing through heavy rain, fog, dust and even the car ahead.
Now it appears that at least Tesla is planning for the eventuality that some of these vehicles won’t have all the “hardware needed,” and will need to be taken to Tesla service centers for upgrades. It’s unclear how widespread this will be because Tesla’s Autopilot software isn’t ready for full automation. Tesla contends this will still be a “highly unlikely” scenario.
“Full self-driving capability” can mean a lot of things, but it most likely refers to Level 4 automation as defined by SAE International, which is defined as “high automation.” That means it’s a car capable of driving in most road or weather conditions without any human intervention. Last year, Musk said the hardware is fully capable of “Level 5 autonomy,” which most experts agree is still theoretical at best.
Naturally, the revelation of HW 2.5’s existence has led some critics to cast doubt over Musk’s original promise.
Looks like pretty solid evidence that Tesla's Hardware 2 suite was not capable of Level 4/5 as promised. Why upgrade it if it was? https://t.co/lms9q5tjcF
Musk promised all Teslas built after 10/16 would be capable of full self driving when the software is ready. Upgrade shows that wasn't true.
But Tesla insists that the hardware upgrade will be minor at best, and that the core camera-and-sensor suite — eight cameras with 360-degree viewing at up to 820 feet of distance, as well as 12 ultrasonic sensors that can detect both hard and soft objects — will still prove valid. Tesla is breaking with its competitors in the self-driving space by declining to include LIDAR sensors under the assumption the equipment will be too expensive for personal ownership. Musk has said previously that LIDAR sensors “don’t make sense in a car context.”
We’ll get a better sense of Tesla’s self-driving capabilities at the end of the year when the company will demonstrate a coast-to-coast autonomous journey. “We reiterate our goal of driving from a parking lot in downtown LA to a parking lot in downtown NY without touching the controls by the end of the year,” the spokesperson said.
A federal class action lawsuit filed last week in California alleges that the Walt Disney Company is violating privacy protection laws by collecting children’s personal information from 42 of its apps and sharing the data with advertisers without parental consent.
The lawsuit targets Disney and three software companies — Upsight, Unity, and Kochava — alleging that the companies created mobile apps aimed at children that contained embedded software to track, collect, and then export their personal information along with information about their online behavior. The plaintiff, a San Francisco woman named Amanda Rushing, says she was unaware that information about her child, “L.L.,” was collected while playing mobile game Disney Princess Palace Pets, and that data was then sold to third parties for ad targeting.
The class action suit says this violates the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), which was enacted by Congress in 1999 and designed to protect the privacy of children online. COPPA requires that companies designing apps for children under the age of 13 obtain consent from parents before collecting personal information. In 2013, the FTC revised COPPA, expanding what counts as personal information to include things like geolocation markers and IP addresses. The update also requires third-party advertisers to comply with the rules.
In total, the lawsuit names 42 Disney apps it says run afoul of COPPA. The plaintiff is seeking an injunction barring the defendants from tracking and sharing data collected without parental consent, as well as “appropriate relief, including actual and statutory damages and punitive damages,” plus all costs related to prosecuting the action.
Disney has responded to the lawsuit, saying:
“Disney has a robust COPPA compliance program, and we maintain strict data collection and use policies for Disney apps created for children and families. The complaint is based on a fundamental misunderstanding of COPPA principles, and we look forward to defending this action in court.”
This is not the first time Disney has faced COPPA violations. In 2011, the FTC levied a $3 million civil penalty against subsidiary Playdom after it illegally collected and disclosed personal information from “hundreds of thousands of children under age 13 without their parents’ prior consent.”
The full list of Disney apps named in the lawsuit includes:
AvengersNet
Beauty and the Beast
Perfect Match
Cars Lightening League
Club Penguin Island
Color by Disney
Disney Color and Play
Disney Crossy Road
Disney Dream Treats
Disney Emoji Blitz
Disney Gif
Disney Jigsaw Puzzle!
Disney LOL
Disney Princess: Story Theater
Disney Store Become
Disney Story Central
Disney Magic Timer
Disney Princess: Charmed Adventures
Dodo Pop
Disney Build It Frozen
DuckTales: Remastered
Frozen Free Fall
Frozen Free Fall: Icy Shot
Good Dinosaur Storybook Deluxe
Inside Out Thought Bubbles
Maleficent Free Fall
Miles from Tomorrowland: Missions
Moana Island Life
Olaf's Adventures
Palace Pets in Whisker Haven
Sofia the First Color and Play
Sofia the First Secret Library
Star Wars: Puzzle DroidsTM
Star WarsTM: Commander
Temple Run: Oz
Temple Run: Brave
The Lion Guard
Toy Story: Story Theater
Where's My Mickey?
Where’s My Water? (paid, lite, and free)
Where's My Water? 2
Zootopia Crime Files: Hidden Object
T-Mobile's releasing a new budget phone called the Revvl. The phone features some pretty basic specs, including a 5.5-inch HD display, 2GB of RAM, 32GB of storage, a 13-megapixel rear-facing camera, a 5-megapixel front-facing camera, a 3,000mAh battery, and a rear fingerprint sensor. It runs Android Nougat and will be available starting tomorrow. It's basically a standard budget Android phone with an added fingerprint sensor. T-Mobile is marketing it as an affordable option because it'll only cost $5 a month with no down payment through the company's Jump! On Demand service, or $125 up front.
Accompanying the phone’s launch, the company has also adjusted its Jump! program, so that people can use it to buy cheaper phones and not just high-end devices. The available devices will be referred to as "SmartPicks." In addition to the Revvl, users can choose from the ZTE ZMAX Pro, the LG Aristo, the LG K20 Plus, and the Samsung Galaxy J3 Prime.
T-Mobile this week also quietly updated the program so that Jump! participants can swap their phones out every 30 days, which includes the new SmartPicks devices. I'm not sure why someone would want to change their budget phone monthly but this could be useful with higher-end devices for people who want to try out different phones. Either way, it's nice that T-Mobile customers won't need to pay for their budget devices up front, which likely allows more people to afford a smartphone.


Late last month, OkCupid announced a fairly fundamental change to its dating service: the company would no longer allow users to see visitors to their profile. And as of today, that change has been implemented across both OkCupid’s website and smartphone apps. The visitor section, which kept track of visitors to your profile and also profiles that you’d recently browsed, is gone.
In a blog post, OkCupid claimed that “a positive beta test” is what led to the removal of the visitors section. “Without the distraction of visitors, you can now focus on the people who like what they see on your profile and really want to get to know you,” the company reasoned. “And when you’re focused on those people, your chances of higher quality connections improves.” But almost immediately, OkCupid ran into negative feedback from both free and paying customers.
To understand why some people are upset with this decision, let’s conduct a quick refresher on how OkCupid works:
After we found positive data from testing, we decided to remove visitors. Here are the details on why >> https://t.co/u2a5AdX4kM
And so that brings us to the revised approach. An email that OkCupid sent out last week was a little more assertive on the subject. “What’s the value of a visitor? Short answer: zero.” The email went on: “you can now connect with even more people because you don’t have to feel shy about showing up as a visitor — and neither do they.” OkCupid says this decision allows for “awkward-free profile perusal.”
That’s a reasonable stance, sure. My friend Erin, a 30-something designer in Brooklyn, thinks it’s a better way to go overall. “I frequently would not even look at someone's profile after they sent me a message unless I thought I was really gonna like them because they'd see that I did,” she told me. “But now I can.” There’s a flip-side, though. She followed that up by saying “The only weird thing is that one guy who checked my profile like dozens of times a day, and now I can't keep tabs on how much he's creeping on me. But I guess I can just block.” That concern — of being unable to realize when someone is frequenting your profile to an alarming extent — carries over to the comments on OkCupid’s blog post from yesterday.
But the most resounding and vehement response from customers is that this is just a thinly-disguised money grab. OkCupid is being chastised on its blog and Facebook page — in comment after comment — as having done all of this just to get more people moved over to the paid A-List tier.
Others have a different request: show us the data that led to this. OkCupid has made a habit of publishing data — equal parts interesting and amusing — about the online dating hellscape landscape, and the company might be compelled to do that here in response to all this negative pushback. It probably should’ve done that in the first place.
As the visitors section gets tossed aside, OkCupid has recently been adding new app features designed to prod users along towards actually sending a first message. And the company is taking blatant steps to help people formulate something that takes a little more brain power than “hey.” You can now comment on profile photos and even specific sections of someone’s profile. These are similar to regular messages but with the context attached.
And just today, OkCupid introduced what it’s calling a “Member Pledge” that users must agree to before sending messages with the app or website. Members of the service “must first agree not to send any harassing or unwanted, sexually explicit messages” before engaging with other people. Accounts that do so will be banned. “If you wouldn’t say something to a person you just met at a bar, you shouldn’t be saying it online,” said company CEO Elie Seidman.

Teaching computers to play games has always been a useful (if somewhat crude) measure of their intelligence. But as our machines have gotten smarter, we’ve had to find new challenges for them. First it was chess, then Atari, then the board game Go, and now they’re taking on their biggest challenge yet: Starcraft.
To be precise, Starcraft II, which researchers at Google’s AI subsidiary DeepMind say is the perfect environment for teaching computers advanced skills like memory and planning. Last year, DeepMind said it was going to work with Starcraft creator Blizzard to turn the space-based strategy game into a proper research environment for AI engineers, and today, that software is being released to the public.
The toolkit from DeepMind and Blizzard bundles in various aids, including a large dataset of Starcraft II replays collected from professional matches (which AI can watch to learn human tactics); and a set of mini-games that isolate certain gameplay elements (like map exploration and resource collection) and can be used to hone particular skills. The most important bit of kit, though, is an API that lets AI agents play the game like a human would and feed back data to researchers. This means that the agents can be given the same constraints as humans (so they can’t see all of the map at once, or can’t click the mouse infinitely fast) while learning through trial and error — a process known as “reinforcement learning” in AI.
But why is Starcraft such a good way to train artificial intelligence? It’s not because we want computers to learn military tactics, but because we need to teach them certain abstract skills, and video games happen to be a good way of doing so. Video games are virtual environments, which means games can quickly be repeated over and over; there’s lots of training data available, helpfully generated by humans playing the game; and Starcraft  itself has a number of gameplay mechanics that are particularly challenging for computers.
Oriol Vinyals, a researcher at DeepMind who’s working on the project (and who happens to be a former top-rank Starcraft player himself) explains that one of the interesting constraints the game offers is the “fog of war” mechanic, which covers up the map, and forces players to explore to find out what their enemy is up to. “So it might be critical for an AI agent to remember ‘Ah, I saw a unit over there before, but I don’t see it now, so I should go back and scout and see if they have a base near that location,’” Vinyals tells The Verge.
To a human, this is such an obvious idea that it’s barely worth thinking about, but it’s the sort of common sense insight that AI need to learn in order to be useful. In Starcraft, thinking about what a player can’t see is essential to winning — and it’s a challenge that doesn’t exist in games like chess or Go, where both players have complete knowledge of their environment at all times.
Vinyals says that this sort of memory skill can then be applied in all sorts of environments, and gives the example of a computer managing power in a data center to decrease electricity costs. “It might see that on a Sunday there’s a power spike for whatever reason, and it will have to remember this information next Sunday to account for it,” he says. “Memory plays a key role here, and teaching computers to infer what the state of the world might be is super interesting for us.”
As well as teaching AI certain skills, the newly released API sets the stage for a human vs. computer Starcraft showdown. Neither Blizzard nor DeepMind have said they plan to stage matches similar to those AlphaGo played against human champions, but Starcraft II’s finest players are certainly keen. Speaking to MIT Technology Review earlier this year, pro Starcraft player Byun Hyun Woo was fairly confident about his chances. “I don’t think AI can beat [a professional player], at least not in my lifetime,” he said.
The problem is that artificial intelligence has a way of surprising humans, as when DeepMind’s AlphaGo AI made moves that commentators thought nonsensical during its matches with Go master Lee Sedol (but that later turned out to be crucial to its success).
So will DeepMind’s AI surprise Starcraft players? Vinyals says it’s already happening, and gives the examples of an agent that was tasked with exploring a section of a map as quickly as possible using just two units. Usually, says Vinyals, a human player would select the units and use the “move” command to cover the ground as quickly as possible. “But it turns out that instead of using ‘move’ you can use another command called ‘patrol,’” he explains. Unlike ‘move,’ this forces the units to keep their distance from one another “and in that way they covered more of the map and collected resources faster.”
It’s not a breakthrough, but it shows how computers can get the upper hand just by taking new approaches to familiar problems. “I thought it was funny,” says Vinyals. “I just didn’t remember — or maybe didn’t know — this behavior.” It’s likely there’ll be more surprises to come.
Here's the thing: you have to go back to school. Acer made another Chromebook, and so now it's official. The existence of the new rugged Chromebook 11 C771, and its touchscreen variant, the C771T, imply to me that school is good for you and you'll learn things, even if sometimes it’s hard.
The Chromebooks are on the mid-to-high end of Acer's Chromebook line, with a $279.99 starting price for the non-touch version. In school you learn about math! You'll get a late 2015 Intel Celeron processor, 32GB of storage, and 4GB of RAM. The touchscreen model offers the same specs for $329.99. If you go to college, you'll have a better shot at understanding why the Intel Celeron 3855U is preferable to the older Celeron chips in Acer's other Chromebooks, so don't think of quitting on me just because you've got your GED.
In September, Acer is going to add Core i3 and i5 models of the C711, but still won't be using the newer Kaby Lake chips you'd find in higher-end laptops. Education is sometimes about tradition, like the tradition of putting old laptop processors in low-end Chromebooks because Chrome OS runs fine on minimal specs.
Some people say they learned at the "school of hard knocks," which is sort of like these new Acer products. The rugged C711 has been drop tested up to 48 inches, and it has a spill-resistant keyboard. School is often 12 years of your life, and the C711 touchscreen model has 12 hours of battery life, while the non-touchscreen model goes for 13.
I'm sorry you have to go back to school. I'm also sorry the C711 has a 1366 x 768 11.6-inch display. There's nothing I can do about it. Good luck.
Update August 9th, 17:15PM ET: FaceApp’s CEO says: “The new controversial filters will be removed in the next few hours.”
You might remember FaceApp — a selfie-editing app that transforms users’ pictures by making them look older, younger, or giving them an artificial smile. Well, earlier this month, the Russian app’s creators updated their software with four new filters: “Asian,” “Black,” “Caucasian,” and “Indian.” First spotted by Mic, users can select these options and the app will alter their appearance, changing the color of their skin and hair.
It’s tantamount to a sort of digital blackface, “dressing up” as different ethnicities. Snapchat was previously criticized for implementing a similar feature when it released a Bob Marley selfie mask to celebrate 4/20. FaceApp itself has been criticized for racial insensitivity in the past, with users pointing out that its “hot” filter consistently lightened users’ skin tones.
The company later apologized for the feature, with CEO Yaroslav Goncharov explaining that the effect was an “an unfortunate side-effect of the underlying neural network caused by the training set bias.” This means that the software that was used to change users’ appearance had been fed only pictures of white people, so this was the skin color it associated with “hotness.” This sort of data-led bias is a big problem in the field of artificial intelligence, with programs regularly embodying racial and gender prejudices because of the data they’re trained on.
In the case of FaceApp’s latest update, though, Goncharov claims there is no bias or prejudice involved. “The ethnicity change filters have been designed to be equal in all aspects,” he told The Verge over email. “They don’t have any positive or negative connotations associated with them. They are even represented by the same icon. In addition to that, the list of those filters is shuffled for every photo, so each user sees them in a different order.”
Some might point out, though, that the order the filters appear in is hardly the issue — it’s the fact they’re being offered in the first place.
Bang & Olufsen has a new speaker out today, and if sound quality and tasteful design is of utmost importance to you — and you can afford to drop five figures on a pair of floor speakers — then the BeoLab 50 might be for you.
Like the other products in the BeoLab line, the BeoLab 50 is a beautifully designed centerpiece device, one that’s meant to stand out in a room rather than hide away in a corner. Between the machined aluminum and oak grates, the BeoLab 50 certainly looks nice, as you’d expect from a Bang & Olufsen product. As a nice touch, hidden on top of the device is a three-fourths-inch tweeter that the company calls an “Acoustic Lens” that rises out of the speaker when you turn it on.
The BeoLab 50 is no slouch when it comes to sound quality, either. Bang & Olufsen has outfitted the BeoLab 50 with three 4-inch midrange drivers, and three 10-inch woofer drivers, along with seven built-in amplifiers — so the entire speaker is ready to go off a single power cable. My colleague Vlad Savov (who knows his stuff when it comes to sound) got to hear how the BeoLab 50 actually sounds in an in-person demo, and he described them as “basically awesome in terms of sound.” Of course, given that these are $40,000 speakers, I’d expect nothing less, but it’s good to know (especially if you’re spending that kind of money).
Despite that price tag, the BeoLab 50 is still not the most expensive speaker that Bang & Olufsen makes. That honor still goes to the BeoLab 90, which costs an eye-watering $84,990 for a pair. Even though the BeoLab 50 is half that price (or a quarter for a single $20,000 speaker, should you dare to commit the sin of breaking up the stereo soundstage), they’re likely to be well outside the price range for the majority of people.
But for the right kind of affluent customer who doesn’t need the extra bells and whistles of the BeoLab 90, and just wants fantastic sound in a beautiful-looking speaker, the BeoLab 50 seems like a good option.
Ricoh has announced a limited edition version of its Theta SC 360-degree camera to celebrate the 10th anniversary of Japanese vocaloid pop star Hatsune Miku. In her 10 years of existence, Hatsune Miku, a hologram performer that uses a singing voice synthesizer, has released over 100,000 songs, opened for Lady Gaga, released rhythm games with Sony, and partnered with PlayStation VR for the virtual concert experience Hatsune Miku: VR Future Live.
Ricoh’s limited edition Hatsune Miku Theta SC has the same specs as the regular version: it has twin f2.0 lenses with two 12-megapixel sensors for 360-degree stills and 1080p-quality spherical video. This version, though, sports a “blue green” finish that matches Hatsune Miku’s iconic ankle-length hair and a white illustration of her by original illustrator Kei Garou. The camera is also accented with a power button that lights up pink, a dedicated accompanying app that allows users to superimpose the pop star in photos, and a shutter button that makes a “Hatsune Miku sound,” created by Crypton Future Media.
The camera has a special Abitax wool soft case handmade in Japan, and the 3,939 units created will come with a dog tag printed with the camera’s serial number.
Ricoh’s Theta SC Hatsune Miku edition will be open for orders from September 1st to October 31st, with the first delivery expected at the end of September in Japan. It will cost £270 ($351).

Fresh off its acquisition of auto-visual company Mobileye, Intel announced today that it will build a fleet of Level 4, fully self-driving vehicles for testing in the US, Israel, and Europe. The first vehicles will hit the road later this year, and the fleet will eventually scale to more than 100 automobiles.
The cars will be Level 4 autonomous, meaning that they will be capable of handing most driving situations themselves, whereas Level 5 is largely theoretical and covers complete automation in any condition.
Intel announced plans to acquire Israel-based Mobileye for $15.3 billion back in March. That deal just closed on Tuesday, spurring the chipmaker to begin making aggressive moves in the emerging self-driving market that Intel itself predicted will come to be worth over $7 trillion. Intel previously said it will spend $250 million over the next two years on the development of autonomous vehicles.
The acquisition of Mobileye has clearly emboldened Intel, which, until recently, appeared to be more of a bystander in the race to build and deploy fully autonomous vehicles. Competitors like Google, Uber, and Tesla were racing ahead, the latter of which was working with Mobileye to round out Autopilot system. Tesla and Mobileye later split after the death of a man in Florida who was driving a Model S using Autopilot, allowing Intel to swoop in and seize the opportunity to make a big splash in the autonomous driving space.
In addition to acquiring Mobileye, Intel also has partnerships with BMW and Delphi, a major supplier of advanced vehicle software and electronics. Mobileye also provides cameras for use in a range of Audi’s vehicles, like the Q7, the A4 / A5 series, and the new Q5. A spokesperson for Intel did not immediately respond to a question about which automaker would be building the chipmaker’s new self-driving cars. Previously, Intel said that its first 40 autonomous vehicles deployed for public trials would be BMW 7 series.
“Building cars and testing them in real-world conditions provides immediate feedback and will accelerate delivery of technologies and solutions for highly and fully autonomous vehicles,” said Amnon Shashua, soon-to-be senior vice president of Intel and future CEO / CTO of Mobileye. “Geographic diversity is very important as different regions have very diverse driving styles as well as different road conditions and signage. Our goal is to develop autonomous vehicle technology that can be deployed anywhere, which means we need to test and train the vehicles in varying locations.”
The system under development by Intel and Mobileye will include cameras, image-processing capabilities, microprocessors, and mapping technology, as well as software that determines how to react to driving situations, pedestrians, and other vehicles, known as “driving policy.”
The companies say they hope to start contracting their self-driving kit to original equipment manufacturers (OEM) like Volvo and GM by 2019. The goal is to have a fully developed package available for automakers to start integrating into new vehicles by 2019.
According to The New York Times, Intel’s vehicles will first be deployed in Arizona, which is also playing host to autonomous testing by Waymo (née Google) and Uber. Big automakers like GM and Ford are also building out their test fleets.

The announcements came like a one-two punch. On Monday, Netflix announced it was acquiring Millarworld, the comic book label run by Wanted and Kick-Ass creator Mark Millar. The move would give the streaming service its own line of comic books to own and adapt, offering Reed Hastings’ company plenty of fodder as it continues to invest in original movies and television shows. Then on Tuesday, Disney delivered what could only be perceived as a fierce punch back: it will end its distribution deal with Netflix in 2019, launching its own standalone subscription service instead.
Disney’s deal has no doubt been in the works for months, but the timing seemed particularly pointed — especially since Disney’s press release touting its streaming service plans gave the Netflix split its own breakout paragraph. Netflix’s ambitions clearly go far beyond creating a streaming service, but both the Millarworld acquisition and the Disney reaction point to a changing media landscape. It’s one where Disney and Netflix companies are no longer collaborators or partners, but competitors, both racing for the same strategic vision.
Under current CEO Bob Iger, Disney has followed an aggressive content strategy based around purchasing popular intellectual properties and studios. In 2006, Disney announced its acquisition of Pixar for $7.4 billion. The company followed suit with Marvel Entertainment in 2009, then Lucasfilm and the Star Wars franchise in 2012. Each were multibillion-dollar bets, but the strategy paid off handsomely, with Disney earning more than $7 billion at the global box office last year alone, thanks to a string of hits like Finding Dory, Captain America: Civil War, and Star Wars: Rogue One.
At first blush, it’s tempting to look at Netflix’s Millarworld acquisition simply through the lens of blockbuster filmmaking and expanded cinematic universes. Variety’s Andrew Wallenstein characterized it as Netflix “trying to become more like Disney by bringing in a superhero factory,” and Netflix certainly did everything it could to fuel that perception. Chief content officer Ted Sarandos went so far as to call Millar “as close as you can get to a modern-day Stan Lee” in the company’s press release announcing the move. But the most interesting detail in the release pertained to the future of Millar’s written works: “Millarworld will also continue to create and publish new stories and character franchises under the Netflix label.”
That amounts to Netflix getting into the publishing business, turning it from a streaming service that creates related content into a full-fledged entertainment company that operates across multiple mediums. It’s still early in Netflix’s evolution, and the company certainly hasn’t risen to power in the same way other movie studios and production companies have. But if you squint, the long-term strategy is clear: this isn’t just about creating movies and shows to compete against those from studios like Disney or Sony. This is about becoming a new Disney outright, with the diversified portfolio of properties that comes with it.
Disney’s streaming move represents a radical escalation of the exclusivity trend that’s been driving subscription services. Historically, consumers could buy a movie or TV show from any number of sources — or see them in theaters. But as with Spotify in music, the advent of subscription on-demand services like Netflix or Amazon Prime Video has changed that. Film fans (or parents of Frozen-addicted children) may still buy standalone movies, but the trend has increasingly been toward streaming packages that offer up an assortment of content. With most quality and delivery problems ironed out, the only way to compete in that space has been with content itself — and content nobody else has is the biggest differentiator of all.
Amazon began leaning into the strategy aggressively in 2013, buying up shows for Amazon Prime Video so they weren’t available on any other service. The same logic has been behind its original content push, as well as that of Hulu, Netflix, and every other self-respecting service.
With some of the biggest films in the world steadily coming from its studios, Disney served as somewhat of a kingmaker with its previous Netflix deal. (Signing up for the only streaming service that offers Star Wars: The Last Jedi or Marvel’s latest films is a no-brainer for many audiences.) Using that same content to launch its own standalone service will give Disney absolute control. Not only will it be able to directly monetize those movies and TV shows with its own service, it will also give the company ultimate flexibility if it wants to mix-and-match packages or other services. It essentially brings Disney one step closer to being able to directly control and distribute every facet of its empire.
Monetizing various intellectual properties across multiple mediums is part of the company’s great success. A character may launch in a Marvel comic or a Star Wars movie, but they can then be reutilized in dozens of different contexts. They can show up in TV shows or theme parks, appear as tie-ins on ESPN, or be part of an interactive toy. The goal is a holistic, 360-degree approach to exploiting these well-known IPs. And perhaps that’s why Netflix, seemingly eyeing a similar long-term strategy, has felt comfortable racking up more than $20 billion in debt building its own stable of original properties. It’s because the company is looking beyond today, where it’s a mere streaming service. Instead, it’s investing in its vision for tomorrow, where the properties it’s developing now will be able to generate profits in categories the company hasn’t even entered yet. In that future, Netflix is like all modern movie studios: an intellectual property generator above all else.
In 2013, Sarandos famously told GQ magazine that the company was in a race for legitimacy in original programming: "The goal is to become HBO faster than HBO can become us." Four years later, Sarandos has largely pulled that off. Netflix may not have a global blockbuster on par with Game of Thrones, but it has cultural flashpoints like Stranger Things and House of Cards, and movies like Okja and Will Smith’s Bright.
If its new goal were to become Disney faster than Disney could become Netflix, then it would have already lost. Disney’s decades of movies and TV shows are all ready to go, and its standalone streaming service is set to launch in 2019. Game, set, and match.
But if Netflix’s goal is transform into the same kind of company that Disney is, then this week’s announcement was simply the beginning of a new chapter. Netflix already has more than 100 million subscribers in more than 190 countries, and its investment in its own programming is only increasing — to say nothing of the future potential of the Millarworld deal. The company will lose Disney’s licensed content, but Netflix execs seemed to recognize long ago that the best way for the company to control its own destiny was to control the content it was distributing. It sees where its long-term play could take it, as a full-scale competitor to the major media conglomerates. And judging by Disney’s immediate response yesterday, perhaps other media conglomerates do, too.
Last night at Seattle’s KeyArena, Valve revealed Artifact, a new digital trading card game based on the Dota lore, at The International, the premier Dota 2 tournament. In a venue packed with Dota fanatics, you might have expected a new way to interact with beloved Dota heroes would be greeted warmly, but the crowd reaction was decidedly deflated:
LOL THE DISAPPOINTMENT #TI7 pic.twitter.com/WVXP30jxyT
Beyond the immediate audible disappointment from the stands, the online backlash has been swift and severe. At the time of writing, the YouTube video posted to tease Artifact has the unenviable ratio of one thousand likes to nine thousand dislikes. The most upvoted comments on that video (yes, I’m wading into YouTube comments!) include “Half-Life 3 died for this,” “You either die a hero, or live long enough to see yourself become the villain,” and “give us a new game stop with the cash grabbing methods.” Oh, and a couple of other keyboard drama queens declared this was the greatest disappointment of their lives.
What the hell?
I struggle to see many valid criticisms of Valve’s proposed entry into the card game genre, especially given how little is yet known about it. We don’t know what sort of game Valve is proposing, other than it being based on Dota and some of that game’s mechanics. We don’t know what the economics of Artifact would be, either, so we can’t (yet) accuse Valve of being a money-grubbing capitalist. And, of course, none of us are forced to play or in any other way care about this game, so there is zero rational reason to bash Valve for it. (Anyone that believes Half-Life 3 development or Team Fortress 2 updates have been undermined to produce a trading card game is just grasping for reasons to be outraged on the internet).
The primary reason for the immediate negative reaction in Seattle, I believe, is that everyone at the venue would have expected a new thing to do inside Dota 2 itself. In past years, Valve has used The International to announce new heroes, so there was a basic mismatch between what people were hoping for and what they got. So that part’s understandable. It’s also true that Hearthstone’s massive success has spawned a litany of digital card game clones, such as Gwent for fans of The Witcher and Elder Scrolls: Legends for residents of Skyrim, and Valve fans expect a bit more originality.
But honestly, we have to stop and think before we start bashing our favorite companies. If Dota wasn’t an amazingly addictive experience, nobody would be gasping with disappointment about it. This year, the game broke its own record for biggest prize pool in e-sports (as it has been doing every year since The International began) with more than $23 million – most of which has come from players buying in-game items and cosmetics. So people love this game, and Valve deserves credit for maintaining the competitive balance and sustaining that passion for its players.
Most of the annoyance with Valve seems to be about it not releasing games many people seem to feel entitled to. Where is my Half-Life 3? Why am I not getting Left 4 Dead 3? I want more! Well, as much as Valve has sought to cultivate an image of itself as a community-driven organization, the reality is that the decision makers reside within it, not outside it. And Valve owes no games to any of us. Just because a company has given you pleasure in the past doesn’t mean that it exists purely for your pleasure.
I can’t say I’m overflowing with anticipation for this Artifact card game, but neither is my cup running over with bile about Valve not dancing to my tune. There are bigger and better things to be outraged about in the world.
Next to the bed of a couple in Fullbright’s new game Tacoma, players may stumble across a shockingly personal item. A vibrator, small enough to fit in the palm of your hand, that belongs to crew members Nat and Bert.
The initial find of this tucked-away object belongs to Holly Green over at Paste. Green, in exploring this small moment, points out the humanizing qualities of this addition: an item you might discover in anyone’s nightstand that also adds an implied intimacy to the relationship in question, without feeling exploitative.
Tacoma may be the sci-fi story of an evacuated space station and the people who left it, but the appearance of a vibrator feels refreshingly modern for any video game.
Fullbright co-founder Karla Zimonja sees this detail, however tiny it may be, as a way to breathe realism into the relationship between these two women. Why wouldn’t a married couple have one? “Probably everyone should have one,” she says. “They're probably— anyway. It just seemed like an extremely natural, human thing for our characters to own and likely bring to the station with them.” It’s the same reason the team added tampons in one of the crew member’s bathrooms, Zimonja says. Not because of some future necessity for the player, but because it’s an everyday item someone might use.
Zimonja says that Kate Craig, one of the team’s 3D modelers, came up with the specific design of Tacoma’s vibrator. Craig surveyed the current landscape of toys before deciding on a design that look appropriately futuristic — one of the few requirements set forth by Fullbright co-founder Steve Gaynor.
The final product is simple model that vaguely resembles a fat crab claw. “There's a lot of different sex toys out there, and I feel like, honestly, the one that we did include was not super intimidating,” Zimonja says. “It's not super, you know, challenging. It was just kind of like, ‘Cool, I can see how they would have this.’”
As for the specific choice on what kind of sex toy to use — a vibrator vs. something like a strap-on — the developer called it a more “down-to-earth” option. “It's in the bedroom of a married lesbian couple, so it is explicitly focused on women's pleasure,” she says. It also removes some of the more comedic implications: “People like to use dildos as punchlines.” Consider “The Penetrator” in Saints Row, a lethal baseball bat shaped like a monster dong; the “Massager” in Dead Rising; or Grand Theft Auto’s chuckable dildos. They all exist for the sheer absurdity of death by dick.
Level designer Nina Freeman, whose work outside of Fullbright explores topics like love and sex, seconds this idea that toys are more powerful in games as everyday objects. It’s easy to miss the vibrator all together. If a player tries to pick the object up, game heroine Amy politely decides to leave it be. This was Freeman’s personal addition. “Having a character's sexuality exist as a normal part of the world can be a really powerful way to better explore this sort of thing in games,” Freeman says. “I kind of think that that's not the only approach, but that's one that I personally like a lot.”
Of course, there’s something to be said for the day when finding a vibrator in a video game is no longer noteworthy. But that first requires dismantling the taboos around sex and the tools that enhance or enable it.
“There is something to be said of not being scared of things like sex toys,” Zimonja says. “I know that it's not always a given, people when they're just learning about sexual identities, that it's not always a given that they think that using sex toys is okay. So it might be nice to just kind of normalize it a little bit.”

The Walt Disney Company announced during its earnings report last night that it’s buying a controlling stake in BAMTech, the company that powers streaming video for organizations like Major League Baseball, HBO, and the WWE. It needs BAMTech’s deep experience in this area to support the launch of a new ESPN-branded streaming service next year and a Disney-branded streaming service that will launch in 2019 and go head-to-head with big names like Netflix, Amazon, and Hulu.
BAMTech is a unique company. It began as the in-house IT division for Major League Baseball, owned in equal part by each of the 30 teams. This group was called MLB Advanced Media, or MLBAM for short. It was a pioneer in streaming video, broadcasting a live game to the web back in 2002. It was also early to the mobile web and one of the first third-party apps on the iPhone.
Over time, other companies began to hire MLBAM when they wanted to launch streaming products. It earned a reputation as a cutting-edge organization that could help with both the front and back end — everything from designing a mobile app to ensuring a global launch streamed smooth, HD video.
In August 2015, the league owners voted to spin an independent entity out of MLBAM. That unit was named BAMTech. That is what Disney now owns the majority of.
BAMTech will provide the bedrock for the tech underpinning Disney’s new streaming services, but Disney may also be getting access to some important sports rights. Its standalone ESPN streaming service won’t have programming from the NBA or NFL. Instead, it leads with MLB and NHL, two organizations already deeply tied into BAMTech. Disney has also purchased an option on e-sports, as BAMTech purchased the rights to stream Riot’s League of Legends last year.
“The media landscape is increasingly defined by direct relationships between content creators and consumers, and our control of BAMTech’s full array of innovative technology will give us the power to forge those connections, along with the flexibility to quickly adapt to shifts in the market,” said Bob Iger, chairman and CEO of The Walt Disney Company. “This acquisition and the launch of our direct-to-consumer services mark an entirely new growth strategy for the Company, one that takes advantage of the incredible opportunity that changing technology provides us to leverage the strength of our great brands.”

It’s been a few weeks since Essential CEO Andy Rubin told us that the Essential Phone would be coming “in a few weeks,” but today the company gave yet another (albeit slightly more specific) timeline, saying it would reveal the release date “in a week.” That’s nearly two months after the company initially said that the phone would begin shipping some time in June.
We are in full mass production, ramping up to deliver your Essential Phone. Find out where you can get yours next week! #thisisessential pic.twitter.com/CYrhTMSt1g
Speaking to The Wall Street Journal, Essential president Niccolo De Masi also confirmed that the $699 Android device with an edge-to-edge display would be available via major US retailers Best Buy and Amazon. The Essential is expected to launch as a Sprint exclusive, with Telus as its Canada partner and more international carriers to be announced at a later date.
“If we are able to sell low single digit millions [in the first year], that’s very successful for a startup,” De Masi optimistically told WSJ. The Essential’s launch, if it indeed arrives within the month, puts it at an inopportune time before Apple and Google’s announcements for the upcoming iPhone 8 and Pixel 2, respectively, which have historically taken place in September and October.
De Masi did not provide further details on the release of the Essential Home, the company’s “privacy-first” Amazon Echo competitor that will have its own smart assistant OS.
Update August 9th, 3:40PM ET: This article has been updated to add Andy Rubin’s tweet on “full mass production.”
Tetsuya Mizuguchi’s techno-fueled psychedelic rail shooter Rez isn’t just one of my favorite games of all time, it’s one of the very best reasons to own a PlayStation VR headset. Last year’s Rez Infinite re-release was that rare example of an existing game that happened to work perfectly in virtual reality. And now that experience is available to a whole new audience — a PC version of Rez Infinite has been announced. Best of all? It’s out today.
Rez Infinite for PC includes full VR support through the HTC Vive or Oculus Rift, and of course you can play the game on a regular monitor as well. During the first month of release, there’ll be a free package of bonus content available including soundtrack samples, desktop wallpapers, and avatars.
Related
Rez Infinite will cost $24.99 on PC and is available on Steam right now; it'll also be in the Oculus Home store today.
On August 21st, a total solar eclipse will travel across the United States from coast to coast — and it’s going to be perhaps the biggest celestial event of the decade. A total solar eclipse, caused by the Moon passing directly between the Sun and the Earth, hasn’t crossed the US like this since 1918. People are flocking to cities along the eclipse’s path, where they’ll be able to see the Moon completely cover up the disc of the Sun. Those in the US who aren’t along the path will still be in for quite a show: every state in the lower 48 will see the majority of the Sun covered up on the 21st.
Here are tips on how to view the eclipse, as well as information about the science, events, and more surrounding this phenomenon.
In case you haven’t heard, there’s a solar eclipse coming! But while eclipses are cool, unless you’re in the path of totality — i.e., the part of the country where the Moon will completely obstruct the Sun — you’ll need to take some safety precautions to safely view the eclipse. (Even then, you’ll still need to wear glasses before and after the moments when it’s totally blocked.) After all, just because part of the Sun is covered doesn’t mean you should look directly at the uncovered part of it. Eclipse glasses are a good way to go, but counterfeit models are making rounds on sites like Amazon. Plus, even if you buy certified ones, they might not make it to you in time.
Related
Fortunately, there’s another option: a pinhole projector. Putting together a pinhole projector is about as easy as it gets, and while it doesn’t quite have the same “wow factor” as looking directly at the partially blocked Sun, it’ll still let you safely view what’s happening without potentially going blind.
There are many ways to make a pinhole projector, but you really just need two things: something with a pinhole in it, and something to project the image on.
If you’re in a rush or on a budget, just take two stiff pieces of paper (paper plates or card stock tend to work well, but even regular printer paper should do the job) and poke a pinhole in one with a pin. If you’re really in a pinch, you can even make a pinhole projector by just curling your fingers to only let a pinprick of light through.
Now that you’ve got your piece of paper with a pinhole, hold it up and let the sunlight shine through it. Then, using your second piece of paper (or a wall) as a screen, you’ll be able to see an image of the partially obscured Sun, all without burning out your retinas.
As a safety note: you want to look at the projection created by the pinhole on the wall, so keep your back to the Sun, and look at the image created by the light shining through. Do not look at the Sun directly through the pinhole.
Now that you’ve got your eclipse-viewing plans sorted out, here’s how this device works. Pinhole projectors take advantage of a bit of optical physics known as the camera obscura effect.
Generally, light travels in straight lines. So when an object is illuminated, light will continue to bounce off it in a straight line. The pinhole only lets a small amount of those reflections through, allowing an image to form (inverted) on the other side of the hole. This is similar to how lenses work.
It’s the same basic process with the eclipse — except the lit objects are the Sun and the Moon, the “lens” is a piece of paper with a hole in it, and the screen is whatever surface you project it onto.
At the end of the day, a pinhole projector is a fun, quick project for you (or your kids) to view the eclipse. If you really want to take advantage and enjoy the full experience, however, here’s a guideline to make sure you are ordering a pair of certified solar filter glasses that will let you safely see the eclipse directly.
YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki has responded to the Google anti-diversity memo, writing in a column for Fortune that the questioning of women’s abilities is “pervasive” in tech and that the memo is “yet another discouraging signal to young women who aspire to study computer science.” Wojcicki opens by saying her daughter asked her, “Is it true that there are biological reasons why there are fewer women in tech and leadership?” Wojcicki says no, it’s not true, but the question has still plagued her throughout her career.
“I’ve had meetings with external leaders where they primarily addressed the more junior male colleagues. I’ve had my comments frequently interrupted and my ideas ignored until they were rephrased by men. No matter how often this all happened, it still hurt,” she wrote.
Wojcicki has had a celebrated career in Silicon Valley, and was Google’s 16th employee, working as the company’s marketing manager with Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin. She rose to become YouTube’s CEO in February 2014, after handling Google’s acquisition of the video hosting site for $1.65 billion in 2006. While the memo didn’t mention YouTube, Wojcicki was a longtime Google employee and remains part of the company through YouTube.
The manifesto that spurred Wojcicki’s piece caused a media storm over the weekend. The memo was written by Google software engineer James Damore, who argued that biological differences between men and women are the cause of the gender gap at Google and the broader tech industry.
The memo must have caused pain for others, Wojcicki said, including the women at Google whose abilities have been thrust into the spotlight. “I thought about how the gender gap persists in tech despite declining in other STEM fields ... And as my child asked me the question I’d long sought to overcome in my own life, I thought about how tragic it was that this unfounded bias was now being exposed to a new generation,” she wrote.
Wojcicki also addressed the defense of the memo as a form of free speech saying people have “a right to express their beliefs in public, [but] that does not mean companies cannot take action when women are subjected to comments that perpetuate negative stereotypes about them based on their gender.” Wojcicki questioned how different the reaction would be if the word “women” in the memo was replaced by another group such as “Black, Hispanic, or LGBTQ employees.”
“Would some people still be discussing the merit of the memo’s arguments or would there be a universal call for swift action against its author? I don’t ask this to compare one group to another, but rather to point out that the language of discrimination can take many different forms and none are acceptable or productive.”
Wojcicki’s response is notably stronger than Google CEO Sundar Pichai’s. Pichai in an internal email said that “much of what was in that memo is fair to debate,” but noted it crossed the line “by advancing harmful gender stereotypes in our workplace.”
