
Frauke Petry, co-chair of the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD), said on Tuesday she would leave the party, two days after its shock third-place finish in Germany’s general election.
Petry, one of the party’s best-known figures, has been at odds with other AfD leaders for months. On Monday, she stunned colleagues by saying she would not be part of the AfD’s parliamentary group and then walking out of a joint press conference with other party leaders.
“It is clear that this step [resignation] will take place,” Petry said in Dresden, news agency DPA reported. Petry did not specify when she will formally resign.
Petry has advocated a less extreme course for the party with the aim of making it fit for government one day, while more radical party members insist the AfD’s vocation is as an opposition party.
Ahead of a congress in April, Petry said she didn’t want to be considered as a lead candidate for the election after it seemed clear that a majority of delegates would not vote back her. Instead, the party chose lesser-known figures Alexander Gauland and Alice Weidel to lead the election campaign.
Asked if other party members would follow Petry’s example and not join the AfD parliamentary group, Gauland replied, according to Bild: “I hope not. I can’t look inside people’s heads at the moment.”
Petry said in a statement on Facebook that she believed the AfD had become an “anarchic” opposition party that could not make any realistic proposals for government.


Reports that several current and former top White House staff members, including Jared Kushner, Reince Priebus and Steve Bannon used their private email accounts for official business puts on display the “rank hypocrisy” of the Trump administration, Hillary Clinton said Monday night.
Clinton, the former Democratic presidential candidate, was attacked regularly on the campaign trail for her use of a private email server during her tenure as secretary of state. President Donald Trump frequently used the email server issue as a brush with which to paint Clinton as dishonest and opaque.
“The hypocrisy of this administration, who knew there was no real scandal, who knew that there was no basis for all their hyperventilating. Republican members of Congress who politicized the deaths in Benghazi,” Clinton told SiriusXM radio Monday in an interview picked up by The Huffington Post. “No, we’re finding with the latest revelations ― they didn’t mean any of it. It’s just the height of hypocrisy.”
POLITICO reported over the weekend that Kushner, Trump’s son in law and one of his top advisers, had used his personal email to interact with other administration officials on White House business several times since the president’s inauguration. Bannon and Priebus, both former White House officials, had also used their personal email accounts for administration matters, POLITICO found.
Clinton’s private email server became the focus of an FBI investigation as well as of investigators on Capitol Hill, probes that dogged her throughout the 2016 campaign. She said the fact that Republicans have not similarly jumped to dig into the use of private email accounts by Trump administration officials is proof that election-year attacks against her were politically motivated.
“It is something that if they were sincere about I think you’d have Republican members of Congress calling for an investigation,” she said. “I haven’t heard that yet.”
On Monday, Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and Democratic Rep. Elijah Cummings of Maryland requested the White House identify any top officials who used personal email accounts by Oct. 9.


Much of the German press focused on the fallout from Sunday’s election, in which Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives performed worse than expected, despite winning the most votes. “Angela Merkel has to fight,” wrote left-leaning Süddeutsche Zeitung, reporting the chancellor will face difficulties attempting to form a coalition with the Greens and the liberal Free Democratic Party. SZ also reported on far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) co-chair Frauke Petry’s announcement she would not be joining the party in parliament. “Frauke Petry splits the AfD,” the headline read. Right-leaning Die Welt argued a new election isn’t “totally excluded.” Left-leaning Tageszeitung led with “Merkel in the Greens’ territory,” reporting on what a coalition between Merkel’s CDU/CSU and the Greens would look like.



“Merkel victorious but weakened: Historic breakthrough of the far right,” Le Monde wrote of the German election. Le Figaro led with a report on what French President Emmanuel Macron’s European reform plans would mean after the German vote: “Europe: Macron’s project frustrated by German vote,” suggesting the president’s expected speech at the Sorbonne Tuesday would be met by a German coalition hostile to his ideas. Left-leaning Libération led with: “Why Germany has cracked.”



The British press focused mostly on the Labour conference taking place in Brighton, where Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell promised to nationalize the Royal Mail, railways, the energy sector and all Private Finance Initiative contracts. “Labour vows more state control with £200bn raid,” led the Times. “Most radical agenda since 1983 delights supporters,” the i wrote. The Daily Mail led with: “Labour is the real nasty party,” referring to an old moniker for the Conservative Party. The Mail wrote of anti-Semitism within Labour and noted BBC Political Editor Laura Kuenssberg required a bodyguard at the conference after receiving online threats.



El País reported on the Catalan police chief skipping a meeting with the Civil Guard, Spain’s central police force. Its front page also followed up on the German election, noting: “Merkel’s limited victory complicates the future of the EU.” El Mundo also covered the Catalan police chief, reporting he “defied the prosecutor,” referring to a prosecutor’s order for police to stand at polling stations on October 1, the day of the Catalan regional government’s planned independence referendum, and prevent people from voting. El Punt Avui, a newspaper that supports Catalan secession, led with: “And now, against polling stations.”





The Catalan government plans to hold a referendum on independence on Sunday, defying Spanish authorities and a Constitutional Court ban.
The October 1 vote is the culmination of a fallout between Barcelona and Madrid that started in 2003, when Catalonia sought a deal to increase autonomy — and failed.
As Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has pledged to do anything necessary to stop the vote, here’s a look at how Catalans went from pushing for a new deal to outright disobedience.


After an election in which both major parties hemorrhaged votes and the far right surged into parliament, German Chancellor Angela Merkel now faces the challenge of forming a new government.
Here is POLITICO’s guide to how Merkel and her possible coalition partners will go about the task.
Merkel’s conservative CDU/CSU alliance came first in Sunday’s election with 33 percent of the vote, but this puts them well short of a majority in parliament. They will need at least one other party as a coalition partner.
A look at the arithmetic and the compatibility of various parties shows Merkel has just two options — a continuation of the “grand coalition” with the center-left Social Democrats (SPD), which has governed for the last four years, or a tie-up with the liberal Free Democrats (FDP) and the Greens in a so-called “Jamaica” coalition (because the parties’ colors of black, yellow and green match those of the Jamaican flag).
SPD chief Martin Schulz has declared that his party will go into opposition and is not available for another “grand coalition.” Merkel is not taking “no” for an answer — she said on Monday she was still open to discussing an alliance with the SPD.
But if the SPD sticks to its position, Merkel will likely have to wrangle a coalition agreement with both the Greens and the FDP, which has never been done before at the national level.
Many believe forming a Jamaica coalition will be a struggle due to the stark differences between the Greens and liberals on issues ranging from climate change to immigration. During a TV debate among the party leaders on election night, Green party co-chief Katrin Göring-Eckardt told FDP boss Christian Lindner that she felt the two parties were “divided on a lot” of topics, particularly the environment. Lindner insisted they were not so different.
To take one example, the Greens want Germany to stop using coal by 2030. The CDU/CSU did not commit to a date for phasing out coal in their campaign program, while the FDP says it’s not possible to “quit fossil fuels in the foreseeable future.”
The FDP’s plans for economic reforms and tax cuts are likely to be a bone of contention. The party has also signaled resistance to a push by French President Emmanuel Macron to deepen the integration of the eurozone. Merkel’s conservatives have shown a willingness to consider Macron’s proposals, although their commitment has been far from wholehearted.
Another tricky issue will be who gets to control powerful ministries. The future of Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble of Merkel’s CDU hangs in the balance as the FDP has indicated it wants to control the government purse strings.
Although differences between the Greens and the FDP are often cited as the biggest barrier to a Jamaica coalition, the two parties agree on at least one thing: legalizing marijuana for recreational purposes. The CDU/CSU, however, is opposed to the idea.
This can really vary. Asked on Sunday night whether she was confident Germans would have a new government by Christmas, Merkel gave a characteristically ambiguous answer: “I’m generally always confident. And for many years, I’ve gone by the motto: ‘power lies in tranquility.'”
After the last election in 2013, it took 86 days before Merkel’s current Cabinet was formed. And that was with just two political groups at the negotiating table.
Before any formal coalition talks are launched, party leaders will hold Sondierungsgespräche — literally “exploratory talks.” In these conversations, they will sound each other out on the prospects of reaching a deal. If the signs are positive, they will proceed to full-blown coalition talks. If successful, these will result in a formal coalition agreement, which has to be approved by each party — through its leaders, a vote among its members or a party conference.
If the parties fail to agree on a coalition, the constitution allows for the formation of a minority government, which would attempt to secure majorities in parliament for legislation on a case-by-case basis.
But this option is very unstable and Merkel would probably rather push for a new election.
Finance Minister Schäuble is certain to have a big say in what happens next. Popular with the CDU’s conservative base, he will be key in selling any coalition agreement to the party rank and file.
Another key figure is Horst Seehofer, leader of the Christian Social Union, the Bavarian sister party to Merkel’s Christian Democrats. Also the Bavarian state premier, Seehofer said after Sunday’s election that the conservative camp had “left its right flank open” — a reference to the CDU and CSU losing more than a million votes to the far-right Alternative for Germany. The CSU, facing a Bavarian state election next year, is anxious to reassert its conservative credentials with demands such as an upper limit on asylum seekers.
For the Greens, former party leader Jürgen Trittin is worth keeping an eye on. He represents the more fundamentalist wing of the environmentalist party, and according to Schäuble, he was the reason coalition talks between the CDU/CSU and the Greens failed in 2013. If he opposes a Jamaica alliance, the party’s leadership will have a tougher time selling it to the grassroots. He has already declared that if it is to work “the CDU must be more environmental, the FDP must be more social, and the CSU must be more liberal.”
For the FDP, party chief Lindner, having brought the liberals back from the political dead after they crashed out of parliament four years ago, is the key figure. He will take charge of the party’s parliamentary group in the new Bundestag.
If the SPD is to change its mind about going into opposition, Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel would be a key figure. A former party leader, Gabriel gave differing views during the campaign on whether the SPD could form another coalition with Merkel. But he mounted a stout defense of the last four years. “I like to say Angela Merkel is a good chancellor, as long as the SPD takes care of her,” he declared at one rally.
Lower Saxony, Germany’s second most populous regional state, will hold a state election on October 15. It will be hard for potential coalition partners to make much progress in Berlin when they are fighting for seats in the state parliament in Hanover. Nevertheless, Merkel insisted on Monday that she wanted to hold initial talks with other parties before the Lower Saxony election.
In Lower Saxony, Merkel’s party is fighting to oust SPD state premier Stephan Weil. If the Social Democrats lose this election, party chief Schulz is likely to face pressure to step down, having led the party to defeat in the general election and several state elections earlier this year.
By law, the new national parliament has to hold its first session within 30 days of the general election. This year, that means MPs will gather for their first official get-together by October 24. This session may provide an indication of whether Finance Minister Schäuble intends to remain in government. Schäuble has been mooted as a possible president of the parliament, who is chosen at this first session.
The previous government, the grand coalition, remains in office until a new one has been formed.
Then it’s time to officially vote in the chancellor. First, German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier will consult with the parties in order to decide on a candidate. Then he will formally propose this nominee — almost certainly Merkel again — to the Bundestag.
If the candidate secures half of the votes plus one — known as the “chancellor majority” — they become head of the government, so long as the president makes the official appointment within a week of the Bundestag vote.


PARIS — First he conquered France. Now he’s going for the entire European Union.
Emmanuel Macron is set to lay out his grand vision for the European Union on Tuesday in a speech laden with symbolism at Paris’ Sorbonne University.
The speech will provide more detail on his campaign pledges to push for a eurozone budget, parliament and finance minister. Macron will insist on the need to give citizens a greater say in what happens in the EU, including by inviting them to participate in “democratic conventions,” or public debates, in every member country early next year, according to aides to the French president.
However, what initially appeared to be judicious timing — two days after the German election that was expected to boost Angela Merkel’s mandate for EU reform — now looks less auspicious, with the German chancellor likely to form a coalition that includes the skeptical Free Democrats (FDP), rather than slipping into another Europhile “grand coalition” with the Social Democrats.
That could spell trouble for Macron’s strategy, which is already being given a test-run across the EU by “shock troops” from his centrist La République En Marche (LRM) movement, who are establishing contacts and building friendships and alliances. What for? “To build a European En Marche,” Sabine Thillaye, head of the European Affairs Commission in the French parliament, said, referring to the grassroots movement that hoisted Macron to power in record time last May.
The initiative is still embryonic, and MPs are “working toward Macron” rather than executing precise orders. The idea is to lay the groundwork for a European alliance of parties, or even an actual party, that supports Macron’s vision of a more “protective” EU in time for the European Parliament election in 2019.
If such a group won a sizable chunk of the EU chamber, it would provide major backup for Macron’s plan and act as a counterweight to the more Euroskeptic Northern European liberals.
“We are trying to establish links with other European parliaments. It’s not yet clear who is going to be favorable to our initiatives … The thing to remember is that our group [French] is made up of people from all sorts of different backgrounds, from a range of different parties,” added Thillaye.
One of Macron’s “agents,” a 31-year-old MP for the Benelux region named Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade, is already in touch with sympathetic counterparts in four EU states. “The ALDE group is an ideological base,” he said. “But it’s not our universal home. We want to go wider … We also have people from the S&D [Socialists & Democrats] and EPP [conservative European People’s Party] who want to join.”
Before Macron can storm the European Parliament, however, he needs to build plenty of support for his European ideas, especially in Germany.
That won’t come easily.
In a worst-case scenario for France, Germany’s Social Democrats (SPD) have ruled out another “grand coalition” with Merkel’s conservatives, meaning she is likely to rely on a partnership with the Greens and the liberal Free Democrats, who have made no secret of their distaste for just about all of Macron’s EU reform proposals.
“If she allies with the FDP, I’m dead,” Le Monde quoted the French president as saying in July, referring to his European agenda.
A day after her reelection, with a conservative-FDP-Green coalition on the cards, the German chancellor was already sounding cooler about Macron’s vision, saying: “My view is that we can use more Europe, but this has to lead to more competitiveness, more jobs and more clout for the European Union.”
European Parliament President Antonio Tajani, who met with Macron in Paris last Friday, is also skeptical on some points — especially proposals for a new parliament for the eurozone.
“We already have a controversy about the two seats of the European Parliament. What would the new parliament be? Sitting where? With what powers? I don’t think we need yet another parliament, perhaps with a third seat,” he told the Europresse association before meeting Macron.
But while Tajani is minding his office and Merkel is minding coalition partners with whom she will rule for the next four years, Macron is making plans for the next decade.
Aides said he sees potential for a major lurch forward in the EU, underpinned by the same type of voters who backed him in France: pro-European, educated and optimistic. In his bid to gather all such people into a vast, single tent ahead of the European Parliament election in 2019, he’s enlisted an important ally: the European Commission.
Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker’s team is liaising with members of the French parliament to study the feasibility of holding democratic debates about the EU in every member country, said Thillaye. National governments will have to agree. But with a nudge from the Commission and assurance that the debate aims only to establish a sense of “what is working and not working in the European Union,” France could have its way in a respectable number of countries.
The Commission recently met with a task force of French MPs devoted to organizing “democratic conventions,” according to Thillaye. Their marching orders are to figure out the correct format and timing for conventions to be held in the first quarter of 2018, with a range of options still under consideration.
“The idea is to lay out a sort of citizens’ State of the Union — what works and what doesn’t,” said Thillaye. “We don’t want to reproduce what the Commission has already tried for building EU sentiment.”
An aide to Macron said: “The idea is to prepare public opinion for a debate about the future of the European Union. You cannot do this by having a debate between technocrats in a room in Brussels. You need to associate citizens from the start … And it’s no use having referendums on these questions in each country, because people never answer the question they are asked.”
Tajani voiced support for the idea of democratic debates, and said he would host one during a session at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, inviting citizens from across the bloc.
At the same time, Macron’s MPs are hard at work trying to find allies in other countries. Jean Arthuis, a liberal MEP, president of the Parliament’s budgets committee and supporter of Macron, told POLITICO there was a need to move beyond national political considerations and start establishing EU-wide groups.
“If we want to get beyond these little arrangements among friends, we should pick Europe as our space of sovereignty,” he said. “Europe will really exist when we have European parties and trade unions.”
Anglade, the young En Marche MP, said he had positive feedback from counterparts in  Slovakia, Estonia, Hungary and the Netherlands. His aim is to build a “progressive coalition” — in other words, a European En Marche — by next September.
“Everybody is wondering what we are going to do,” he said. “We don’t have contact with Forza Europa but I am looking closely at them,” he added referring to the party founded earlier this year by Benedetto Della Vedova, an Italian economist.
Thillaye declined to say which EU parties might be open to alliances or coalitions with En Marche. But she said there would be no ideological or right-left hangups about potential allies.
However, not everyone is ready quite yet to be “on the move” with Macron.
Liberals, not just in Germany but also in the Netherlands and elsewhere in Northern Europe have a very different view from Macron on what constitutes an ideal EU  — one that emphasizes free trade with the outside world rather than new protections and anti-dumping tariffs.
“Creating another party in Europe would be excessively superfluous,” said Franck Engel, a member of the European People’s Party from Luxembourg. “There are so many of them. What would it be? Social Democrat? We have it. Liberal? We have it.”
Another skeptic pointed to the fact that across Europe, political and economic conditions are not what they were in France when Macron came to power.
“You must feel that everything around you is falling apart,” said the official, who asked not to be named. “In the EU, it’s not really the case.”


Frustrated with West Wing aides’ rampant use of personal communications devices for official business, former chief of staff Reince Priebus tried over the summer to stop — or at least limit — the practice.
During a July senior staff meeting, Priebus asked aides to store their personal phones in secure lockers in the White House or either leave them at home during the workday, according to people who attended. The administration subsequently installed additional lockers, typically only found outside secure rooms, in the West Wing, as part of an effort to force aides to use their White House accounts for communications.
But the request was largely ignored, according to six current and former administration officials, advisers and others who correspond with White House. Aides laughed about Priebus’ request, and senior officials—including Priebus—continued to use their personal phones for phone calls, text messages and emails for White House matters.
Now, as congressional committees launch investigations into Jared Kushner’s use of a private email account to sometimes conduct government business, more information is emerging about the widespread nature of West Wing aides’ reliance on private devices – a controversial practice that raises recordkeeping, cybersecurity and political concerns.
A number of top aides, including Ivanka Trump, the U.S. president’s daughter, and Gary Cohn, Trump’s top economic adviser, have also maintained private email accounts where they have occasionally corresponded with other White House officials and Cabinet members.
Ivanka Trump’s account was set up with her husband Jared Kushner last December on a family email account, according to public records, while Cohn created a private account in December before joining the White House.
Former chief strategist Steve Bannon and Priebus have also used personal email accounts to occasionally email about government matters, according to people familiar with their correspondence.
People close to Kushner said Monday that Kushner never used a transition or campaign email account, instead relying on his real estate company’s account for political and business emails as he helped manage his father-in-law’s campaign.
Kushner decided to create the personal account and domain in December, shortly before he was named to a formal White House role, according to these people. He mainly uses the account to message family members including his father, a real estate tycoon in New York, his lawyer and some friends and acquaintances, these people said.
White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said Monday that aides were frequently warned about using private email accounts.
“To my knowledge, it’s very limited,” Sanders said during the press briefing.
White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said Monday that aides were frequently warned about using private email accounts.“To my knowledge, it’s very limited,” Sanders said during the press briefing.
In a later statement to POLITICO, Sanders said: “All White House personnel have been instructed to use official email to conduct all government related work. They are further instructed that if they receive work-related communication on personal accounts, they should be forwarded to official email accounts.”
No one in the White House has been accused of sharing classified or sensitive material on personal email accounts. And no officials have exclusively used a private email for government work as Hillary Clinton did as secretary of state, according to White House officials and others with knowledge of the correspondence.
Trump has been a harsh critic of Clinton’s email practices, leading chants of “Lock her up” during campaign rallies as recently as last weekend in Alabama.
A top House Republican investigator on Monday demanded details on any senior aides to Trump who have used private email addresses or encrypted software for government business. Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), chairman of the House oversight committee, along with his Democratic counterpart, Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Maryland), called for the White House to disclose by Oct. 9 the names of any top administration officials who use a private email address for government work and to identify any accounts or cell phone numbers that may have been used to transmit encrypted messages.
POLITICO reported in February that administration lawyers and then-press secretary Sean Spicer admonished staff members that using encrypted messaging apps like Confide or Signal would be a violation of the Presidential Records Act.
House Democratic investigators earlier Monday said they intended to probe Kushner’s use of a private email address, a development that threatens to escalate the Russia-related controversies already surrounding President Donald Trump’s son in-law.
Cummings sent a separate letter to Kushner, a White House senior adviser, asking him to preserve all his personal emails. The Maryland Democrat also suggested he will eventually request all copies of work correspondence that passed through Kushner’s personal account.
Alex Conant, a Republican strategist and former Rubio campaign manager, said criticism from the right may have been been muted because Kushner’s defense seemed plausible. And, he said, in 2017, many people understand that communications happen via text, apps or other ways.
“The optics of this aren’t great, and I assume you’ll see these accounts shut down and people transition over to their official accounts,” he said.
Kyle Cheney and Rachael Bade contributed to this report.


WARSAW — Polish President Andrzej Duda said Monday he had scrapped proposals to dismiss all judges on the Supreme Court, a move that may defuse tensions with Brussels over the government’s plans to tighten control over the judiciary.
The proposal is however expected to deepen a rift with Jarosław Kaczyński, Duda’s mentor and the leader of the ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party. It could also lead to a split inside the ruling party, hitherto strongly unified behind the legislation, seen by the EU as an abuse of the rule of law.
Duda on Monday presented his own versions of two draft bills that in July he had refused to sign into law. One of the laws sought to do away with a council nominating new judges and move the power to select members of the National Judiciary Council from judges’ organizations to parliament.
The other law called for the immediate removal of all 87 Supreme Court judges and for giving the power to decide which ones would be retained to the justice minister.
Kaczyński met Duda last week and was presented with the president’s proposals.
“The meeting with the president showed that we can talk but at the same time it showed that there are far-reaching differences in our views,” Kaczyński said in an interview published by the pro-government weekly Sieci Prawdy on Monday.
Kaczyński and many other prominent PiS members have harshly criticized Duda since his July vetoes, but the president’s actions showed that there is a significant opposition within the ruling party at the speed and scope of reforms of Poland’s legal system.
Before Duda decided to speak out, all the legislation proposed by PiS had been passing smoothly through both chambers of parliament.
Last week, Duda received strong support from a deputy prime minister, Jarosław Gowin, who criticized his own party in an unprecedented outbreak for a PiS official.
Firing the Supreme Court judges is seen by PiS as a key part of its plans to exert greater control over the judiciary, which it says is elitist and obstructive.
“There will be no one-off dismissal of all the [Supreme Court] judges,” Duda said in a statement Monday.
Frans Timmermans, the first vice president of the European Commission who is in charge of monitoring Poland’s judiciary reforms, told reporters in Brussels that he would “carefully examine” Duda’s proposals.
However, Duda failed to completely remove controversial provisions from the Supreme Court law. He proposed that judges resign after turning 65, but could be allowed to stay if they seek approval from the president. At the moment, judges’ retirement age is 70 for women and 75 for men.
If introduced, Duda’s plan would put the futures of about 40 percent of the Supreme Court in his hands. The rest could be forced to leave within the next two to three years.
In his version of the law on the National Judiciary Council, Duda removed a provision calling for its immediate dissolution — its members’ terms will end next year anyway. But he upheld a controversial proposal for the members of the council to be nominated by parliament rather than by judges’ organizations. His only change to the law he vetoed is that he wants council members to be elected by a three-fifths majority in parliament.


BERLIN — Just as the Alternative for Germany (AfD) was basking in the glow of its greatest triumph, tensions at the top of the far-right party exploded.
On the morning after the AfD won 12.6 percent of the votes in Sunday’s general election, becoming the first far-right party to enter the German parliament since World War II, co-chair Frauke Petry took her fellow leaders by surprise by announcing at a joint press conference that she would not join the AfD’s group in parliament.
“After long deliberation, I have decided not be part of the AfD faction,” Petry said, before walking out of the press conference and leaving her colleagues on stage dumbfounded.
“This was not discussed with us,” her party co-chief Jörg Meuthen, who was on stage with Petry, told journalists immediately after her exit. “I can only apologize for that.”
Later on Monday, Petry told public broadcaster ARD she had made the decision to express disapproval with radical tendencies inside her party, “which continue to scare away too many voters.”
Petry, despite being one of the AfD’s best-known figures, has been increasingly isolated from her fellow leaders in recent months. Not only have there been fierce personality clashes between Petry and other senior officials; she has also championed a less extreme course that aims to make the party fit for government one day, while more radical party members insist the AfD’s vocation is as an opposition party.
Ahead of a congress in April, Petry said she didn’t want to be considered as a lead candidate for the election after it seemed clear that a majority of delegates would not vote in her favor. Instead, the party chose lesser-known figures Alexander Gauland and Alice Weidel to lead the election campaign.
After Petry’s walkout on Monday, Weidel said that the party co-chair had not spoken to her or Gauland for months.
Later in the day, Weidel called on Petry to give up her party membership.
“After the most recent stir Frauke Petry caused, which can hardly be topped in its irresponsibility, I demand that she resign from her post as party chief and to leave the party, to not cause any more damage,” Weidel said.
It remains to be seen whether Petry will sit as an independent in the new parliament or try to form a rival group, possibly by peeling off other AfD MPs.
AfD officials said the ambitious 42-year-old chemist was deeply wounded when the party shunned her desire to lead the election campaign and went on to pick Gauland, a 76-year-old veteran politician who does not shy away from strong nationalist rhetoric, and little-known economist Weidel as their lead candidates.
Referring to chat messages they obtained, German public broadcasters NDR and WDR reported Monday afternoon that Petry had been working for months on a plan to split off an entire group of the populists’ Bundestag MPs, who will number 94 in the new parliament.
Some political observers are even speculating on whether Petry might have plans to eventually join Angela Merkel’s conservative bloc, made up of the chancellor’s center-right Christian Democrats and their Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union.
Merkel herself made clear on Monday that, under her watch, this was not going to happen anytime soon.
“Ne!” – a more insistent variation of the German Nein – was the chancellor’s immediate reaction at a press conference Monday afternoon when she was asked whether her camp was open to taking in AfD deserters like Petry. “I certainly don’t have any such intentions,” she declared.


Angela Merkel said Monday she is open to coalition talks with all of Germany’s  mainstream parliamentary parties — including the Social Democrats (SPD), despite the fact that they ruled out another “grand coalition” with her conservatives Sunday after an historic election setback.
The chancellor said she was keen not to exclude any coalition option from the outset — except the far-left Die Linke, who came fourth in Sunday’s general election, and the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD), which won its first seats in the Bundestag and came third.
“We will of course engage in talks with the FDP (the liberal Free Democrats) as well as the Green party, but I have to add also with the SPD,” Merkel told a news conference in Berlin. “All parties that are, from our point of view, potential coalition partners have a responsibility for us to form a stable government.”
Merkel’s CDU/CSU came first but with only 32.9 percent of the vote — a drop of 8.6 percent since the last election in 2013. Her current coalition partner, the SPD, fared even worse. Taking home just 20 percent of the votes, the Social Democrats came to the immediate conclusion that another term as junior partners to Merkel’s conservatives would further undermine their support base.
“I heard the words from the SPD, but our opinion is that we should nevertheless remain in contact and talks,” said the chancellor.
Merkel appeared in no particular rush to form a new government, stressing that the first priority for all parties was the campaign for state elections in Lower Saxony on October 15.
“We will surely hold initial talks before [that election], but things first need to mature,” Merkel said.


German Social Democrat (SPD) leader Martin Schulz on Monday nominated outgoing Labor Minister Andrea Nahles to lead the party’s parliamentary group in the Bundestag.
Schulz made the proposal to senior party officials after the SPD experienced its worst election result in German post-war history Sunday night, securing just 20.5 percent of the vote. Party leaders immediately decided to go into opposition rather than serve again as junior governing partner to Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives.
If confirmed in the post, Nahles will be the first woman to hold the role. She would replace current parliamentary group leader Thomas Oppermann.
“I had four good years as chair of the SPD Bundestag group,” Oppermann wrote on Twitter Monday. “I am happy that Andrea Nahles will be my successor. The SPD must now rebuild in opposition.”

Schulz described the party’s move into opposition as “a new season” for the party.
Nahles has served as labor minister since 2013 and was previously the SPD’s secretary-general.


A tweet featuring the Jamaican flag sent out by Martin Selmayr after the German election result was “probably about Usain Bolt’s retirement,” a European Commission spokesman said Monday.
Selmayr, Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker’s chief of staff and a German Christian Democrat, sent out the tweet after Angela Merkel’s conservatives won the German election on Sunday. With the second-placed Social Democrats moving to the opposition benches, the most likely next German government will feature Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union, the liberal Free Democrats and the Greens — a so-called Jamaica coalition because the three parties’ colors match those of the Jamaican flag.
At the Commission’s daily press briefing Monday, chief spokesman Margaritis Schinas said (with tongue firmly in cheek) that the most likely explanation for Selmayr’s tweet was it was “probably about Usain Bolt’s retirement.” 
Schinas also suggested Selmayr’s tweet could have been about the EU’s financial support to Jamaica after hurricanes battered the Caribbean over the summer.
“Not everything is as political as it sounds. Twitter is a bit of fun as well,” the spokesman added.



The Alternative for Germany’s co-chair Frauke Petry announced Monday that she will not be joining her party colleagues in the Bundestag after the far-right AfD won around 13 percent of the vote in the German election on Sunday.
Petry appeared to take fellow party officials by surprise by announcing at a news conference that, “after long deliberation,” she will not be joining the new party group. She then walked out of the press conference, leaving her colleagues baffled.
According to German press agency dpa, party co-chair Jörg Meuthen said he “had had no knowledge” beforehand of Petry’s decision, which he called “a bombshell.”
Petry was directly elected to a seat in Saxony on Sunday, where she was responsible for the AfD’s strong showing, winning the largest share of votes.
Petry did not run as the party’s lead candidate in the campaign to Sunday’s election due to alleged differences over the party’s direction. Party apparatchiks dismissed Petry’s proposal for the party to adopt a “Realpolitik strategy” at a party conference in April, and chose former Goldman Sachs executive Alice Weidel and former conservative Alexander Gauland as the lead candidates instead.
André Poggenburg, the AfD’s group leader in the state of Saxony-Anhalt and also a member of the party’s executive board, called on Petry to quit the party.
“I encourage you to … leave the party,” Poggenburg told DPA news agency. The AfD won 19.6 percent of the vote in Saxony-Anhalt, behind the CDU on 30.3 percent.



The U.K. is spending “the minimum” on defense and must decide “whether it is enough,” according to U.S. Ambassador to the U.K. Woody Johnson.
Speaking to the Telegraph in an interview published late Sunday, Johnson hinted the U.K. should be spending more than the 2 percent of gross domestic product target that NATO members are required.
“You are going to have to determine your spending,” Johnson said. “You are spending the minimum, and you have to decide whether it is enough. We [the U.S.] spend twice that much and we could still spend more.”
U.S. President Donald Trump has made it clear he wants members of the military alliance to meet the 2 percent threshold. Currently the U.K. is one of only five compliant countries out of 28.
The ambassador also praised the British vote to leave the European Union. “I trust the British people to make the right decision and I feel comfortable that you made the right decision,” he said.
“The U.K. should have the freedom to control movement over its borders. I think it can be worked out. I am pretty optimistic,” he added.
He said he wanted the U.K. and the U.S. to strengthen trade relations. “Jobs, jobs, jobs — both in the U.S. and the U.K. We want to have a healthy economic relationship.”


Europe’s press reacted with disbelief to Germany’s Sunday election, in which the far right recorded a surge in support and Angela Merkel’s conservatives faced their worst result since 1949. Merkel’s center-right bloc won around 33 percent of the vote, down from over 41 percent in 2013, the center-left Social Democrats (SPD) scored about 21 percent and the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) garnered around 13 percent of the vote. Merkel secured a fourth term as chancellor in what many of Europe’s papers termed a “bitter victory.”
“Despite the losses, the Union was again the winner,” wrote Frankfurter Algemeine, referring to Merkel’s conservatives. “Union loses heavily, SPD on record low, AfD third force,” reported Die Welt. On its front page, left-leaning Die Tageszeitung published a picture of the German parliament with a thunderbolt striking it, with the caption: “AFD third-largest faction.” The Süddeutsche Zeitung reported the night was a “debacle” for the CSU, which won 38.8 percent of the vote in Bavaria, 10 points less than it managed in 2013.




Le Figaro led with a picture of a somber-looking Merkel with the headline: “Bitter victory.” Highlighting Merkel’s likely difficulties in forming a coalition with the liberal Free Democratic Party and the Greens, especially with the AfD now in parliament, the paper also published an editorial titled “A shadow over Merkel.” Financial newspaper Les Echos led with: “Merkel wins her bet, breakthrough for the far right.”


ABC also used the headline: “Bitter victory for Merkel.” El País led with “The eruption of the far right clouds Merkel’s victory.” La Vanguardia: “Merkel wins, but the ultras enter parliament.”



The Telegraph led with: “Merkel triumphant, but Germany’s far right stirs.” Left-leaning Guardian’s headline was “Merkel’s fourth-term win marred by rise of far right.” And the Financial Times led with virtually the same headline: “Merkel’s fourth-term victory marred by rise of rightwing AfD.” Echoing both, the Times reported: “Merkel win eclipsed by resurgence of far right.”




French-speaking Le Soir called Merkel “victorious but very weakened.” Dutch-speaking De Standaard painted an even darker picture, saying: “Merkel survives German Black Sunday.” De Morgen led with: “Merkel loses and wins,” running two pictures from the same victory speech highlighting her mixed fortunes.



“The right and Merkel’s fall scare the EU,” La Repubblica reported. In similar vein, Il Gazzettino led with: “The right flies, Merkel falls.”


 


Angela Merkel will remain German chancellor. That widely anticipated outcome was about the only unsurprising element of Sunday’s German election.
The far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) finished much stronger than most observers dared predict, becoming the first unabashedly racist, anti-foreigner party to sit in Germany’s parliament since the days of Hitler.
The Social Democrats (SPD) all but imploded, opting to go into opposition to lick their wounds rather than risk another “grand coalition” with Merkel. The Free Democrats, back in parliament after four years in the wilderness, along with the Greens, finished slightly better than projected, opening the door to a three-way tie-up with Merkel’s conservatives. Previously considered a long shot, the combination Germans call “Jamaica” now looks like the only option left to form a government.
Here are five takeaways from Sunday’s election.
SPD leader Martin Schulz told Merkel on live television she was the election’s “biggest loser.” A bit harsh perhaps (especially coming from a candidate who just recorded his party’s worst-ever result), but there’s some truth to it. Instead of addressing tough questions such as migration head-on, Merkel ran a vague, feel-good campaign, promising a “Germany in which we live well and happily,” while offering few specifics about how she wanted to get there.
Merkel’s will be a long auf wiedersehen, but there’s no denying her grip on power began to loosen the moment the first returns rolled in. Yes, she won, but support for her party fell by more than 20 percent compared to 2013, despite low unemployment, a strong economy and a host of other positives that by all rights should have guaranteed the Christian Democrats an easy win. Not even Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble’s balanced budget was enough for voters to forgive Merkel for her handling of the refugee crisis.
Conservatives in Merkel’s bloc — especially the Bavarians — are already whispering “I told you so.” Look for that to continue and for the chancellor to inch to the right on migration and questions related to “German identity.”
The next parliament will include six parties (seven, if you count the CSU, the Bavarian sister party to Merkel’s CDU), representing a much more diverse cross-section of the country’s body politic than its predecessor. Sparks will fly.
The inclusion of the far right in parliament will make German politics louder and nastier. AfD leader Jörg Meuthen made it clear Sunday that confrontation and “provocation” were central to the party’s strategy. If other European countries where populists have a strong foothold are any indication, that no-holds-barred spirit will infect the political mainstream, creating a decidedly more raucous political climate.
Merkel’s conservatives were skeptical of French President Emmanuel Macron’s reform proposals even before Sunday. A grand coalition represented the French president’s best chance for realizing his vision. With that option now off the table, a weakened Merkel is unlikely to be able win over the Free Democrats and skeptics in her own party, even if she wants to. France and Germany may agree to establish some form of budget and an oversight position for the eurozone with the title of finance minister, but neither will have the scope the French, not to mention many economists, had been hoping for.
German patience over Europe’s lack of solidarity on the refugee front was already wearing thin. After Sunday’s result, look for outright confrontation with countries like Poland and Hungary. In the view of many Christian Democrats, the AfD would have never gotten this far if other European countries had taken in their fair share of refugees instead of letting Germany bear the burden. It’s payback time.
For all the breathless historical comparisons, it’s worth taking a deep breath and remembering Germany is a stable democracy. The vast majority of Germans didn’t vote for the AfD and most of those who did, did so in protest. The coming years won’t be pretty, but Germany’s democratic foundations are robust enough to withstand the populist onslaught.


They didn’t have a candidate like Donald Trump — but they campaigned like him.
They were roundly condemned for outrageous statements, they got caught up in scandals that would have been terminal for conventional politicians, and their leaders fought like cats in a sack.
Yet in the end, the Alternative for Germany (AfD) took third place in Sunday’s general election, becoming the first far-right party to enter the country’s parliament since World War II.
Here’s a look at some controversial moments in the party’s campaign:
The party leadership plunges into deep internal warfare at the AfD’s conference in Cologne. Party chairwoman Frauke Petry’s plan to put the AfD on a more moderate course isn’t even discussed at the conference. Petry declares she is not available to lead the party’s election campaign.
Instead of Petry, two lesser known figures become the lead candidates for the election campaign: 76-year-old Alexander Gauland and 38-year-old Alice Weidel. Both refuse to speak to Petry after the conference as the splits spill out into the open.
In the following weeks and months, the party’s opinion poll rating declines to as low as 8 percent in June, having been as high as 15 percent at the start of the year.
Gauland is roundly condemned for suggesting the German government’s commissioner for immigration, Aydan Özoğuz, should be “disposed of in Anatolia.” He later says he would not use the same phrase again, but refuses to apologize.
The regional parliament in Saxony lifts Petry’s immunity, paving the way for her to be prosecuted for perjury.
Around the same time, the AfD’s poll score climbs to 11 percent.
Weidel walks out of a TV debate, claiming she is being treated unfairly by the show’s host and the media in general. She also ends a newspaper interview after only two questions have been posed.
Shortly afterward, Weidel is accused by German media outlet Die Welt of being the author of a leaked email from 2013 in which immigrants were described as “aliens” and “non-people.” Weidel initially denies having written the email, but her lawyer later drops the denial.
September 8: Weidel files a lawsuit against a journalist from news outlet Spiegel, accusing the reporter of spreading false allegations about her health and decrying a “press witch hunt.” Spiegel rejects Weidel’s accusations as “absolutely baseless.”
September 13: German media outlet Die Zeit accuses Weidel of having illegally hired a Syrian refugee in her Swiss home. She dismisses the story as “fake news.”
By this time, the party’s support has climbed to 12 percent — a level it has not reached since early February.
A video in which Gauland says that Germans should be “proud” of their soldiers’ achievements in two world wars attracts widespread media attention. (Gauland made the speech on September 2 but it went largely unnoticed at the time.)
Four days before election day, AfD leader Petry, having played little part in the campaign, publicly distances herself from the two lead candidates, saying she would understand if people were “horrified” by their statements and turned their back on the party.
The AfD wins 13 percent of the vote to take third place in the parliamentary election, according to initial projections.


Presidential son-in-law and senior adviser Jared Kushner has corresponded with other administration officials about White House matters through a private email account set up during the transition last December, part of a larger pattern of Trump administration aides using personal email accounts for government business.
Kushner uses his private account alongside his official White House email account, sometimes trading emails with senior White House officials, outside advisers and others about media coverage, event planning and other subjects, according to four people familiar with the correspondence. POLITICO has seen and verified about two dozen emails.
“Mr. Kushner uses his White House email address to conduct White House business,” Abbe Lowell, a lawyer for Kushner, said in a statement Sunday. “Fewer than 100 emails from January through August were either sent to or returned by Mr. Kushner to colleagues in the White House from his personal email account. These [were] usually forwarded news articles or political commentary and most often occurred when someone initiated the exchange by sending an email to his personal rather than his White House address.”
Aides who have exchanged emails with Kushner on his private account since President Donald Trump took office in January include former chief of staff Reince Priebus, former chief strategist Steve Bannon, National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn, and spokesman Josh Raffel, according to emails described to or shown to POLITICO. In some cases, those White House officials have emailed Kushner’s account first, said people familiar with the messages.
The decision to set up new, private accounts as Kushner was preparing to enter the White House came in the wake of a bitter election campaign in which Trump routinely excoriated his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton for using a personal email account to handle government business when she was secretary of state.
There is no indication that Kushner has shared any sensitive or classified material on his private account, or that he relies on his private email account more than his official White House account to conduct government business. Aides say he prefers to call or text over using email.
Still, Kushner and his wife, Ivanka Trump, set up their private family domain late last year before moving to Washington from New York, according to people with knowledge of events as well as publicly available internet registration records. At the time, Kushner — who served as a senior campaign adviser — was expected to be named to a White House role, while Ivanka Trump was publicly saying she didn’t plan to work in her father’s administration.
Kushner’s representatives declined to detail the server or security measures on it.
People familiar with the account say it was primarily set up for Kushner’s personal communications, but he has used it to communicate with acquaintances outside the White House about matters relating to Trump and the administration, according to people who have received messages, as well as with his White House colleagues.
Kushner has been under scrutiny in the ongoing Russia probes, which have expanded to include potential obstruction of justice by the president and his aides since January, and Kushner’s private email traffic may also be of interest to FBI and congressional investigators.
Ivanka Trump, now an assistant to the president, has an email account on the same domain, they said. POLITICO has not seen Ivanka Trump’s correspondence, and there is no indication that she used her account to discuss government business.
Private email traffic among White House aides — some of it sent between personal email accounts rather than to or from government addresses — could skirt the requirements of the Presidential Records Act, which requires all documents related to the president’s personal and political activities to be archived. Trump himself is not known to use email but occasionally has email messages to his assistant printed and presented to him.
Lowell said Kushner has adhered to government record-keeping requirements by forwarding all the emails to his account, though POLITICO could not verify that.
Other White House officials have also sometimes used personal accounts to correspond with Kushner and with each other, according to emails seen by POLITICO and people familiar with Kushner’s correspondence. They have also used encrypted apps like Signal and Confide that automatically delete messages, prompting former Press Secretary Sean Spicer in February to issue a warning to communications staffers that using such apps could violate the Presidential Records Act.
The use of personal email accounts in the Trump White House has been somewhat common, even though the president has been a harsh critic of Clinton’s private email habits, frequently leading “lock her up” chants as he traveled across the country on the campaign trail.
“It was an incredibly effective attack,” said Evan Siegfried, a Republican consultant. “He did a great job of injecting the emails into the mainstream.”
Clinton was the target of an extensive FBI investigation, overseen by former FBI Director James Comey, into whether she mishandled classified material by sending or receiving it via her nongovernment email address.
In her newly released memoir, Clinton cited the investigation into her email practices as one reason for her defeat. Comey, who in July 2016 formally cleared her of any wrongdoing, reopened the issue in late October, days before the election, after finding a cache of emails backed up on a computer belonging to Anthony Weiner, the husband of Clinton’s top aide Huma Abedin.
The 2016 election was also shaped by the release of hacked emails stolen from the Democratic National Committee as well as from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. The hack is being investigated as part of FBI special counsel Robert Mueller’s wide-ranging probe into Russian meddling in the 2016 election.
A former Obama administration lawyer said aides were asked to not use personal email accounts for official or political business but that occasionally an aide would send a message and later forward it to their account.
If emails related to Trump aren’t saved, it could be difficult for historians, according to Julian Zelizer, a presidential historian at Princeton University. Zelizer said that historians can provide a richer history of how administrations work — and historians have feared for years that the proliferation of email will lead some people to do their business in ways in which the records can’t be archived. Zelizer said it could also make the job more difficult for investigators seeking to understand parts of the White House.
“There’s a reason we require officials to keep those records,” said Zelizer. “Even if 80 percent of someone’s records are not interesting, the other 20 percent can be very illuminating on how an administration worked.”


PARIS — France’s main conservative party won most seats Sunday in a partial Senate election, with Emmanuel Macron’s centrist party picking up just a handful in a largely expected result.
The upper house of Parliament was renewing 171 of its 348 seats, three months after the French president’s La République en Marche (LREM) party swept an absolute majority in the lower house.
The election is decided by more than 70,000 “grand electors” chosen from local elected officials, putting the newcomers of the LREM at a disadvantage due to the party’s lack of nationwide presence. As of 8 p.m. in Paris, the conservative Les Républicains looked to take 150 seats, versus 93 for the Socialists and their allies, 43 seats for the center-right UDI/MoDem and 23 for LREM.
The result creates no serious obstacle for Macron, but it underscores the need for leaders of his party to deepen its presence across France.
Marine Le Pen’s National Front party failed to win any new seats, and preferred to celebrate the breakthrough of its German ally, the AfD, in elections across the Rhine, winning seats in the German parliament for the first time.


ROME — Luigi Di Maio promised to “rescue” Italy after being crowned the new leader of the anti-establishment 5Star Movement. But before he can do that, he’ll need to unite his own team.
The 31-year-old had been expected to win an online ballot of party members and he did just that, securing more than 80 percent of the vote. Now he faces the difficult task of helping the movement transition from a populist party into a credible force capable of winning next year’s general election.
Di Maio had been groomed for the top job by the movement’s charismatic leader and founder, comedian Beppe Grillo, who pledged to step back from frontline politics during a three-day party event in the coastal town of Rimini.
The sharply-dressed Di Maio, who in 2013 became the youngest-ever deputy speaker of Italy’s lower chamber, is the moderate voice of the 5Stars, which — despite doing badly in June’s local elections — are running high in the polls ahead of the national election due by May 2018.
According to recent polls, the 5Stars remain neck and neck with the ruling center-left Democratic Party (PD) of former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, at just below 30 percent.
None of the three largest political groups — the 5Stars, the PD and a divided center-right led by a resurgent Silvio Berlusconi — appear capable of winning an outright majority, raising the specter of a hung parliament. If no party reaches the 40 percent threshold needed to clinch a majority in the lower chamber, at least two of the main parties will need to work together to form a government — and the 5Stars have long railed against backroom political deals.
In Di Maio — whose bio includes stints as a steward at Napoli’s football stadium and incomplete university studies in engineering and law — the 5Stars have an ambitious leader who has promised to shake up Italy’s political landscape by getting tough on law-and-order and migration.
“The role you gave me is not to change the movement, but to change Italy,” Di Maio said Saturday, shortly after being announced as the winner of the race. “Italy needs to come back to life, not to survive. We’ll rescue this country.”
Di Maio pledged on Sunday to swiftly put together a team of “capable people,” so Italian voters will have a clear idea of whom they’re supporting. But the movement — it refuses to call itself a party — has so far struggled to widen its electoral base and attract the centrist voters who will make the difference at the election. It has also suffered from its limited experiences at governing, especially in Rome, where Virginia Raggi’s term as mayor has been dogged by controversy.
Despite a recent softening of their anti-euro and anti-European stance, the 5Stars have successfully surfed the wave of anti-establishment anger and political resentment among Italians tired of painful austerity and still bearing the scars of a long recession.
“The 5Stars face a huge paradox: they surged as an anti-party and a catch-all movement, attracting votes from the left, the center and the right,” said Massimiliano Panarari, a communications professor at Rome’s LUISS university. “Now they’ve chosen their more moderate, and somehow less charismatic leader, to try to lure those voters who are still undecided or scared by the movement’s radical tones.”
Di Maio also faces an uphill battle proving he is more than a puppet of Grillo, whose at-times-authoritative leadership has split the party.
“He risks being a pure spokesman, with Grillo pulling the strings,” said Wolfango Piccoli, co-president of research firm Teneo Intelligence.
“Di Maio’s best chance of success in his tough mission of leading the 5Stars to victory relies in pulling together a credible government team. But the movement, with its clear lack of a capable ruling class, remains his worst enemy.”


BERLIN — The far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) will use its new powers as a parliamentary party to hold Angela Merkel’s next government to account for its refugee policies, party leaders said after their Bundestag breakthrough in Sunday’s election.
“Dear friends, now that we’re obviously the third biggest power … the government has to buckle up. We will hunt them. We will hunt Frau Merkel … and we will reclaim our country and our people,” one of its two leading candidates, Alexander Gauland, told cheering supporters in Berlin.
Poaching more than a million votes from Chancellor Merkel’s conservatives, half a million from her main Social Democrat (SPD) allies and hundreds of thousands more from the far-left Die Linke, the anti-immigrant, Euroskeptic AfD finished third on just over 13 percent, according to the latest projections.
That means the AfD is on course to enter the lower house of Germany’s parliament for the first time, following a series of strong showings in regional elections.
Thanks largely to the AfD, Merkel’s conservatives and the SPD both performed so much worse than expected in Sunday’s general election that they won’t be repeating their “grand coalition” government. That means the SPD will be the leading opposition force rather than the far-right newcomers, cushioning the blow a little for the German political establishment.
AfD party members and supporters reacted with cheers at their campaign headquarters in a trendy nightclub on Alexanderplatz in Berlin. About a thousand protesters rallied outside the nightclub shouting anti-racist chants and waving banners with slogans like “Xenophia isn’t an option,” and AfD leaders were forced to leave by a back door.
Founded as a Euroskeptic protest party during the eurozone debt crisis, the AfD lurched to the right during the refugee crisis of 2015 and is held together by its opposition to Angela Merkel’s policy on refugees and lingering opposition to eurozone policies, but inside the party there are wide differences on policy, strategy and how hard a line to take.
Party leaders lined up on German TV as the results came in on Sunday attempting to correct their image as racist rabble-rousers.
Party leader Frauke Petry, who was prevented from being the lead candidate by an internal revolt, said when asked about Gauland’s remarks that she was “personally standing for a moderate course within the party.” She said the AfD should not be blamed for a more widespread “roughening of the tone” in German politics.
“It’s not fair to blame the AfD for that,” said Petry.
AfD politician Jörg Meuthen was put forward to debate with Merkel, the SPD’s Schulz and the other top candidates on Sunday evening, in a German election-night tradition known as the “Elephants’ Roundtable.” Meuthen said the new parliamentary AfD “will not tolerate xenophobia.”
“We want to be a hard opposition … an opposition that Germany hasn’t had so far,” he said.
Alice Weidel, who co-led the AfD ticket with Gauland, said the pair of them wanted to use their new positions in the Bundestag to “initiate a committee of inquiry on Angela Merkel” and her decision to let in refugees.
“We have come to stay,” Weidel said.
Armin-Paul Hampel, a member of the AfD’s leadership, told POLITICO he believed that “Gauland was right” to say he would persecute Merkel, because the government needed what he called a “real opposition,” especially on the issue of migration.
“The establishment thought the refugee topic was dead. But it’s not dead,” he said.
Kalina Oroschakoff in Brussels contributed to this article.


Germany’s Social Democrats said Sunday they will not continue governing in a ‘grand coalition’ with Angela Merkel’s conservatives after projections showed they had scored their worst general election result in post-war history.
SPD leader Martin Schulz called it a “difficult and bitter day for German Social Democracy” after early projections put his party on just 20.2 percent, a distant second to Chancellor Merkel’s conservatives on 32.7 percent — which would also be their worst result since 1949.
“This is a rejection of the grand coalition,” said SPD parliamentary leader Thomas Oppermann on national TV.
Senior SPD figures said Schulz would remain party chairman, but his position might be untenable after such a weak campaign,


BERLIN – Angela Merkel secured a fourth term as chancellor on Sunday, but her election victory was overshadowed by a far-right surge that will put an openly racist party into the center of German politics for the first time since World War II and send shockwaves across the European continent and beyond.
The anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany (AfD) garnered around 13 percent of the vote, according to preliminary returns — a result expected to upend the consensus-driven culture that has marked Germany’s postwar political landscape.
Though Merkel secured another term, her center-right bloc recorded its worst result since 1949, winning around 33 percent of the vote, down from over 41 percent in 2013. Most polls in the days before the election had predicted Merkel’s bloc would finish in the mid-30s, with the AfD getting about 10 percent.
“We don’t need to beat around the bush,” Merkel told supporters at party headquarters Sunday evening. “We wanted a better result, that is clear.”
The center-left Social Democrats (SPD) fared even worse, scoring about 21 percent, the worst postwar finish for a party that has been a pillar of German political life since the 19th century. Party leader Martin Schulz vowed to head into opposition, abandoning the “grand coalition” with Merkel that has governed Germany for eight of the past 12 years.
“We clearly didn’t succeed in holding our traditional base,” a visibly shaken Schulz told his party faithful, calling the AfD’s strong showing “particularly worrying” and a “turning point.”
With another grand coalition off the table, that leaves a three-way combination of Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc with the liberal Free Democrats (FDP) and the Greens as the only viable option. Those two smaller parties won about 10.5 percent and 9 percent, respectively.
Though such a coalition would enjoy a comfortable majority in parliament, the ideological differences between the Greens, the Free Democrats and the Christian Social Union (CSU), the Bavarian sister party to Merkel’s CDU, could prove challenging.
That’s particularly true when it comes to immigration. While the FDP and the CSU are demanding a harder line on asylum, both Merkel and the Greens are opposed. The CSU, which tried and failed over the past year to convince Merkel to accept an upper limit on refugees, is likely to renew that push as the party heads towards state elections in Bavaria, where it enjoys an absolute majority, next year.
Some in Merkel’s circle worry that in wake of Sunday’s result — the CSU scored below 40 percent in Bavaria, its worst-ever result — tensions between the two sister parties will worsen.
“The CSU will be the toughest partner in coalition talks,” a senior CDU official said.
The question of Europe’s future could prove just as daunting as immigration in the coalition talks. Though Merkel and the Greens are open to proposals by French President Emmanuel Macron to shore up the eurozone in the wake of the Greek crisis, the FDP has taken a more skeptical view. In a post-election television debate with Merkel and other party leaders, FDP chief Christian Lindner didn’t rule out reforming the currency bloc, but said setting up a budget that could be used to send money to France and Italy “would be unthinkable and a red line for us.”
Many conservatives in Merkel’s own ranks — especially the CSU — also oppose such moves, suggesting that Macron’s eurozone vision, which he is expected to detail later this week, won’t be realized anytime soon.
Greens leader Katrin Göring-Eckardt, asked during the TV debate if she believed a three-way coalition could be formed, responded: “Naturally there’s a lot that divides us … I’m not sure that we will succeed.”
In the run-up to the election, many observers considered a coalition between the three (known informally as a Jamaica coalition because the parties’ colors correspond to those of the Caribbean nation’s flag), to be a longshot, given the stark differences between them. But SPD’s vow to go into opposition leaves Merkel with little choice but to give it a try.
The SPD’s Schulz predicted that the trio would eventually reach an agreement, adding that it was an imperfect coalition that “will unfortunately leave Germany paralyzed.”
Merkel rejected that appraisal, predicting she would manage to form a “stable government.”
If the parties fail to reach a deal, a Merkel-led minority government would be an option. Yet most political observers believe new elections would be the more likely alternative in order to form a government with a clear mandate.
As Germans abandoned the governing “grand coalition” of Merkel’s conservatives and the Social Democrats (SPD), they flocked to smaller parties, vaulting both liberal Free Democrats and the far-right AfD into the Bundestag, the German parliament. The liberals crashed out at the last general election, after serving as Merkel’s junior coalition partners.
The AfD saw its support swell during Germany’s refugee crisis only for it to wane earlier this year. But it charged back in the final month of the campaign. The surprise finish by the populist party will reverberate across Europe, where a string of underwhelming finishes by populist parties, including in the Netherlands and France, fueled hope in the political mainstream that the AfD would also underperform.
The AfD’s strong showing is likely to be followed by an even stronger performance by populists in Austria, where a parliamentary election is set for next month. The Alpine country’s Freedom Party, on which the AfD modeled its own strategy, is expected to win about 25 percent of the vote and is likely to join the next government. Such an outcome is bound to renew fears in Europe that populist parties, many of which harbor anti-EU positions, are once again gaining ground across the region.
The AfD appears to have benefited from a groundswell of anti-establishment sentiment amid an election campaign in which it was often difficult to distinguish the positions of the main parties. Merkel, in particular, ran a campaign that avoided controversy, focusing on issues like Germany’s strong economy instead of addressing more uncomfortable topics, such as refugees and immigration.
After the results came on Sunday, Merkel lamented that “in recent weeks so much of what transpired in 2015 was rehashed.”
Voter frustration was apparent in exit poll interviews, with about 60 percent of AfD voters saying they cast their ballot for the party to protest the policies of the current government. Polls also suggested that the ramifications of the refugee crisis remain a hot-button issue for many voters.
Merkel struck a conciliatory note, promising to try to win back disaffected voters in the coming years “by taking on board” their concerns and fears.
That won’t be easy. AfD leaders were emboldened by their victory Sunday night, vowing to continue the fight.
“They should get ready,” AfD lead candidate Alexander Gauland said. “We’re going to hunt them. We’re going to hunt Frau Merkel … We will reclaim our country and our people.”


President Donald Trump has failed to realize the presidential role of uniter-in-chief, according to a new poll, and is instead viewed by most Americans as doing more to divide the country than either of his two most recent predecessors.
According to a new ABC News/ Washington Post poll released Sunday morning, 66 percent of respondents said Trump is doing more to divide rather than unite the country. This is a worse response than either Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama ever received for the same question; both peaked at 55 percent.
The poll also shows that Trump, despite a slight uptick in other approval rating trackers, continues to have the worst favorable ratings at this stage of his presidency. According to a release, his approval rating (39 percent for, 57 percent disapprove) is the lowest of any president at eight months in office; polls of this kind began during the presidency of Harry S. Truman.
On perhaps the most pressing issue of the moment, what to do about North Korea and its dictator Kim Jong Un, Trump’s weak numbers continue. The public by a 62-37 percentage point margin does not trust the commander-in-chief to act responsibly in handling the situation. This is compared to U.S. military leaders, who at 72 percent maintain about double the support of the president on the topic.
Late Saturday night, Trump again used Twitter to push his message on the issue. The president also struck a harsh tone with North Korea during his first ever speech in front of the United Nations General Assembly where he continued his recent habit of calling Kim “Rocket Man.”
“Just heard Foreign Minister of North Korea speak at U.N. If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won’t be around much longer!,” Trump tweeted just after 11 p.m., the last message in a day long stream of tweets covering everything from Iran to protesting NFL football players.
The president did draw strong numbers when it came to his handling of another recent crisis: Fifty-six percent approve of the way he has dealt with Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma.
The poll was conducted by landline and cellphone from Sept. 18-21, in English and Spanish, among a random national sample of 1,002 adults. Results have a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.


French Economy Minister Bruno Le Maire quit the country’s main center-right party, Les Républicains, and joined President Emmanuel Macron’s centrist La République en Marche, he said Sunday.
“I am a member of En Marche,” Le Maire said in an interview with JDD, adding that he was responding to a change in political culture.
“There is a right-wing culture and a left-wing culture, but these cultures no longer cut across the real political divisions,” he said.
Le Maire was the country’s food, agriculture and fisheries minister between 2009 and 2012 before taking up the position of economy ninister in May this year.
“My culture is right, but I am with Emmanuel Macron because with him we will modernize our economy, accelerate European integration, innovate, invest,” said Le Maire.


Britain’s rules and regulations will diverge from those set by the European Union after Brexit, David Davis said Sunday.
“We start at the same position, but we will manage the divergence,” the Brexit secretary told the BBC’s Andrew Marr show, in an interview recorded Saturday.
“Of course we will diverge, we will do things our own way.”
Marr asked: “There are those who say we need to stick near to EU regulation. And others say we need to strike out on our own. Where are you on that spectrum?”
“Bang in the middle,” David replied, but he said “Yes” when asked if British rules would branch off from EU rules after Brexit.
Davis also conceded that the U.K. would pay around £10 billion a year to the EU up to 2019. However, he rejected claims the final settlement could be higher, saying: “Things like pensions and other things, these are debatable to say the least.
“The last time we went through line by line and challenged quite a lot of the legal basis of these things and we’ll continue to do that. That doesn’t mean that we want to see our allies and friends in Europe massively disadvantaged in the next few years and that’s what we’re aiming not to do.”
Asked about claims that the final settlement could be around £40 billion, Davis said that was “sort of made … up.
“I’m not going to do an actual number on air, it would be ridiculous to do that, but we have a fairly clear idea where we’re going on this.”
The next round of Brexit negotiations gets underway in Brussels on Monday.


Members of Italy’s 5Star Movement picked 31-year old Luigi Di Maio as the party’s leader ahead of a parliamentary election due next year.
Di Maio beat seven rivals in an internet ballot of party members carried out on Thursday and Friday, winning 83 percent of of the vote. He was the favorite to win.
“I promise I will form a government team to be proud of for the first time in our history,” said Di Maio at the 5Stars’ annual meeting in Rimini on the Adriatic coast on Saturday, according to Reuters.
Di Maio was a protégé of the party’s anti-establishment comedian founder Beppe Grillo, who is now expected to step away from frontline politics.
The 5Star Movement performed poorly in the first round of local elections in June, and was excluded from the runoffs in most big cities. But it’s riding high in polls ahead of the national election that will be held in the first half of 2018.
The party — which rails against corruption and calls for a universal income — has 15 MEPs and 88 members of Italy’s 630-strong Chamber of Deputies legislative house.


German voters are choosing their new parliament on Sunday, with Chancellor Angela Merkel on course for reelection but the identity of her next coalition partners far from clear.
Polling stations opened at 8 a.m. and close at 6 p.m. local time.
Opinion polls in the final days of the campaign showed Merkel’s Christian Democrats and their Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union, had the support of around 36 percent of voters, giving them a lead of some 14 percentage points over the center-left Social Democrats led by Martin Schulz.
Follow POLITICO’s live blog for rolling news, reaction and analysis from 10 a.m. until late on election day.




var pymParent = new pym.Parent('targetdiv', 'http://fingfx.thomsonreuters.com/gfx/rngs/MICHAEL%20OVASKA/010050DC0TY/index.html', {});


LONDON — The hard left of the U.K. Labour party is in control — and is determined to make it count.
Emboldened by a surprise surge in support in June’s general election in which the party won 30 additional seats (though fell short of an overall majority), its leader Jeremy Corbyn will begin the process of overhauling the organization from top to bottom at the party’s annual conference in Brighton which kicks off Sunday.
A list of proposed amendments to the party’s constitution obtained by POLITICO reveals the extent of changes under consideration which, if adopted, would hand the levers of power to his supporters well before the next scheduled U.K. general election in 2022.
The constitutional amendments will cause alarm among Labour MPs, many of whom have been openly critical of their leader since his election by party members in 2015.
Corbyn and his allies are increasingly dominant in the party and many of the amendments are likely to pass. Labour MPs are likely to look to the more moderate trades unions to restrain the left of the party from taking too much power.
Corbyn’s plan seeks to overturn many changes to the party’s rulebook pushed through by former leaders Tony Blair and Ed Miliband, who sought to modernize the party. Blair’s left-wing critics in particular accused the former Labour leader of discarding the party’s socialist roots in order to get elected and now see an opportunity to recast the party in order to ensure voters are offered an emphatically left-wing option when Britain next goes to the polls.
Many of the controversial proposals have been thrown into an internal party review, under the control of Corbyn’s political secretary Katy Clark, which will be sanctioned by a vote of Labour delegates in Brighton this week. The “Party Democracy Review” has officially been created to address the “shortcomings and difficulties” in the party’s internal operations, although Corbyn’s critics see it as a naked power grab.
The review will report back to Corbyn and Labour chair Ian Lavery next year, ahead of the 2018 party conference, which now looks set to be a major turning point in Labour’s history.
According to a confidential document from a meeting of the National Executive Committee on September 19 seen by POLITICO, the review will examine “the method of electing the party leader,” the composition of the NEC — the party’s ruling body — how to give more power to members, and how best to strengthen ties with trades unions.
Among the most contentious proposals in the document is a bid to rewrite Clause IV of Labour’s constitution which was rewritten under Blair’s leadership to remove what was widely seen as the party’s commitment to socialism.
The proposed new Clause IV reads: “Labour is a democratic socialist party working for a fairer, healthier and more equal society.” While seemingly anodyne, the move will alarm MPs who view Blair’s version as a totemic emblem of the modernization of the party.
The other clause likely to cause considerable alarm, particularly among Labour’s Jewish community, would specifically allow party members to criticize “Zionism.” “Hatred of Jews shall not be evidenced by non-abusive words or actions regarding Israel or Zionism that are part of legitimate political discourse,” the proposed constitutional amendment reads.
Other reforms to be considered by Clark include lowering the threshold of MPs’ nominations required to get on any future leadership ballot from 15 percent to 5 percent, a move designed to ensure a candidate from the left of the party can always get on the ballot paper, regardless of the view of most MPs.
A separate amendment proposes scrapping affiliated supporters (largely from trades unions linked to the party) and registered supporters, who pay a small fee for the right to vote, leaving only fully paid-up members who are now overwhelmingly pro-Corbyn.
Another clause designed to empower the left, would permit members and trade unions to change party rules at the next party conference, rather than waiting a year, allowing the left to overhaul the party more quickly than is currently possible.
Provided it is sanctioned by conference, Clark’s review will report back to Corbyn and his campaign lieutenant, the new party chair Ian Lavery, within the next 12 months, after which it will be considered by the NEC and the conference in 2018.
A second slate of proposed constitutional amendments, which will not be considered in the review but have been scheduled for debate in 2018, go further in empowering the grassroots membership over the parliamentary party.
The proposals, which have been put forward by local Labour parties and trades unions, need to go before an obscure but influential body called the Conference Arrangements Committee, which acts as a filter, deciding which rule changes are put to a vote by party members at their annual conference.
The CAC, as it is known, has recently been taken over by the left of the party for the first time in its history, meaning many of the proposals could be debated by conference where Corbyn-supporting delegates are now in the ascendency.
“Mad stuff is always put forward under any leader,” said one parliamentary aide opposed to Corbyn’s agenda, “but the changes to the CAC means they could get through.”
Proposed constitutional amendments which have been put forward for consideration, according to the document, include giving members and trade unions, rather than MPs alone, the power to nominate leadership candidates. Under this proposal a candidate could stand in a leadership contest with 15 percent of the votes of affiliated national trade unions or with backing of 15 percent of constituency Labour parties.
Other proposals suggest raising the proportion of MPs required to get rid of a leader from 20 percent to 40 percent; the introduction of two deputy leaders, of which at least one would be a woman; forcing the party’s general secretary to stand for election for a three year term no more than one year and eight months after the rule is introduced — i.e. before the next election. The current party chief Iain McNicol would be entitled to stand in a ballot of all party members but would almost certainly lose.
New rules on MPs seeking re-selection will also be considered by the CAC for debate at the 2018 party conference. Those on the left of the party have long pushed for the introduction of “mandatory re-selection” of the party’s candidates at each election, in order to enable grassroots members to keep a check on their MPs. The new proposal is described by senior party figures as a “compromise” proposal between the current “trigger ballot” process which means MPs must win the support of half their local party to stand again as the party’s candidate, and  “mandatory re-selection.”
The new compromise proposal would mean MPs being forced to get nominations of two-thirds of the union branches in their constituency — which often do not have any actual Labour members — and local branches representing two thirds of the constituency Labour party membership.
This proposal would not come into effect until after the next election because the current selection round is already under way.


French far-left leader Jean-Luc Mélenchon told tens of thousands of supporters Saturday that the battle against Emmanuel Macron’s labor reforms was not over, even though the president signed them into law.
Mélenchon claimed up to 150,000 people gathered in Paris to demonstrate against the new laws but local officials put the crowd at 30,000, Le Figaro reported.
The leader of the France Unbowed movement also called on his followers to bring casserole pots to another demonstration next Saturday “to make as much noise as possible.”
“They are stopping us from dreaming, so we will stop them from sleeping,” Mélenchon said.
“The battle hasn’t finished, it has just begun,” he declared.
Macron signed the labor reforms Friday, aiming to inject greater flexibility into the job market and kickstart hiring after decades of high unemployment.


Spain’s government on Saturday announced measures to exert more control over police forces in Catalonia in its latest move to stop an independence referendum scheduled for October 1.
Diego Pérez de los Cobos, a colonel in Spain’s Civil Guards, was named “technical director” on Saturday to supervise the work of the Civil Guards, National Police and the “Mossos,” a local Catalan police force, El País reported.
The move comes amid increased tensions between Madrid and Barcelona in recent days. The Mossos, who are normally controlled by the Catalan government, have been accused by Madrid of not sufficiently cracking down on preparations for the independence vote, which Spain’s Constitutional Court has ruled illegal.
The Catalan government said Saturday it would resist Madrid’s measures.
“We are not accepting that the Spanish Interior Ministry assumes command over the Mossos,” Catalan Interior Minister Joaquim Forn tweeted.
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy defended the measure, saying Spain was facing “a coup against legality, which we will overcome calmly with the force of democracy.”
Carles Puigdemont, the Catalan regional president, urged protesters on the streets in Barcelona to remain calm. “Despite provocations, excessive actions, rumors, false slogans … we are serene and always peaceful,” he wrote on Twitter. “It is our great asset.”


AACHEN, Germany — Martin Schulz, the main challenger to Angela Merkel, vowed on the eve of Sunday’s German election to “fight until the last minute” as polls predicted a historic defeat for his Social Democrats.
“This isn’t an election day like any other,” Schulz told a campaign rally in the historic center of Aachen in western Germany, close to his hometown of Würselen. “It’s about preventing this country from getting a government of social coldness, a government that does not care about the people.”
With only 21 percent support, according to an Insa poll published Friday, Schulz’s center-left Social Democrats (SPD) are on course to record their worst national election result in postwar German history. The party lies a distant second to Merkel’s conservative bloc, which stands on 34 percent, although both major parties appear to have lost some support in the final days of the campaign.
The far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) is in third place at 13 percent, according to the Insa poll. The far-left Die Linke party stands at 11 percent, the liberal Free Democrats are at 9 percent and the Greens at 8 percent.
Most of Schulz’s speech focused on social justice and shortcomings in the German education, healthcare and elderly care systems. “We will make Germany a fairer place with equal opportunities, regardless your name or origin … [and] equal salaries for men and women,” the SPD leader said.

Schulz, a former president of the European Parliament, also stressed his pro-EU agenda.
A crowd of several hundred people, waving SPD and EU flags, applauded his words.
The friendly atmosphere in Aachen stood in stark contrast to the hostile reception Merkel faced the day before at her final election rally in Munich, where far-right supporters booed, jeered and whistled at the chancellor, local media reported.
At his rally, Schulz appealed to undecided voters, who make up 37 percent of the electorate, according to a poll for public broadcaster ZDF last week.
“Think of Brexit, think of [U.S. President Donald] Trump, and go and vote tomorrow,” he said. He added that “there is an alternative to Mrs. Merkel,” whom he accused of copying Social Democrat ideas and having “no own ideas of her own, no plan for the future of Germany.”
Schulz, however, has struggled to present himself as a clear alternative to Merkel, in part because his party has been the junior partner in a “grand coalition” government of the two biggest parties for the last four years.
Social Democrats at the rally said the chancellor had been able to claim credit for SPD policies.
“Merkel has occupied our issues and successfully given the impression that they are hers, because she has the advantage of being the chancellor,” said Marianne Kuckelkorn, a consultant at the local workers’ welfare association who came with her husband to see the rally.
Michael Schulz, an SPD member from Aachen — who stressed he is not related to the party leader — said most Social Democratic ideas “have not been visible enough” during the party’s time as junior partner in government.
“If we lose tomorrow,” he said, “then I really hope there won’t be another grand coalition with Merkel. We can’t afford it. We need to become a powerful opposition and not leave that space to the far right.”


In the days leading up to Sunday’s German election, campaign posters have continued to spring up around Berlin.
The posters hung by the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) are infamous for their stark messages. The party’s campaign placards, which can be seen around the German capital, trumpet its anti-immigration platform.
A great many of the party’s billboards and posters have been damaged, defaced or destroyed by Berliners. Those that remain untouched have been hung at the very top of lampposts — presumably to minimize their chances of being torn down.
Here’s a look at the lifecycle of AfD posters in Berlin.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kirsten Kortebein is a freelance photojournalist. Originally from the U.S., she splits time between Latin America and Europe where she covers sport, culture and politics.


Germans head to the ballot boxes on Sunday to pick a new parliament, the Bundestag, which will then elect the chancellor — almost certainly Angela Merkel once again.
But the Bundestag will also have to perform another crucial task: forming a coalition government between at least two parties. And that’s where things can get messy.
Here is POLITICO’s guide to all you need to know about the election.
More than 61 million Germans are eligible to vote on September 24 when polling stations across 299 constituencies open at 8 a.m. The last ballots must be submitted by 6 p.m.
In the last election, in 2013, there was a voter turnout rate of 71.5 percent — less than 1 percentage point more than the record low of 70.8 percent in 2009.
The roughly 73,500 polling stations will typically be set up in public buildings, such as schools or town halls. But there are also some unusual locations: a hospital in Hanau, a fire station in Neuenburg and even one inside the basement of a house in Buchholz, normally used as a home gym.
Across Germany’s 16 regional states, more than 600,000 volunteers signed up to help count votes, which will be cast by old-fashioned pen-and-paper: In 2009, the Constitutional Court ruled that an electronic voting system used in the 2005 general election was unconstitutional after a father and son argued that it was not transparent enough.
Parties and voters will also have to abide by election day rules: campaign posters are not allowed by polling centers and no campaigning is allowed nearby. Selfie-taking or any other photography while voting is also a strict no-no.
Polls in recent weeks have consistently shown Merkel’s conservative CDU/CSU bloc with a big lead. While the CDU/CSU currently sits at between 34 and 37 percent support, the Social Democrats (SPD), led by Martin Schulz, are polling at between 20 and 22 percent.
Surveys show the SPD could only be part of a stable majority in the Bundestag as a junior partner to the CDU/CSU, so Schulz has almost no chance of being chancellor. Merkel, on the other hand, will probably have at least a couple of ways of commanding a majority in parliament.
While Merkel’s victory seems almost inevitable, the composition of her next government is far from clear. That’s because, if the polls are right, Merkel’s CDU/CSU group will have to team up with at least one other party to form a majority — and this will shape the government’s policies over the next four years. In some ways, the race for the third biggest party is much more important than the one for first.
There could be a continuation of the current “grand coalition” with the SPD, or the conservatives could team up with the Greens and liberal FDP to form a “Jamaica” coalition (so-called because the parties’ colors match those of the Jamaican flag). If the CDU/CSU and FDP score a bit better than the polls suggest, they may even be able to form a “black-yellow” coalition — a formation which governed the country during Merkel’s second term as chancellor.
If Schulz’s SPD performs far better than the polls suggest, he could try to form a coalition without Merkel’s bloc, teaming up with the far-left Die Linke and the Greens (known as red-red-green), or form a “traffic light” government with the FDP and Greens (red, yellow, green). But both of these options seem extremely unlikely.
The German voting system is a little complicated, so buckle up for this part.
Each voter gets two votes: one for their local representative and the other to choose a party. Each candidate who wins in their district automatically gets a seat. But the parties’ overall share of seats in parliament is determined by the percentage of second votes they win, so this is the number most widely reported on election night. The parties fill up the seats they win through second votes based on regional candidate lists.
The minimum number of seats in parliament is 598, but this can grow through something called “overhang seats.” These are allocated when, for example, a party wins 10 districts in a region through the first votes, but only earns enough of the second votes to earn eight seats. Since anyone who wins their district through first votes is entitled to a seat, that party gets to keep the extra — or “overhang” — seats.
But this would mean the party would be over-represented in parliament. To fix this, other parties get additional “balance seats” to even things up. Ultimately, the Bundestag could, in theory, swell to have 800 members. The current one, though, has 630.
On election night, and probably not late. Germany’s public broadcasters release their first predictions of the result, which tend to be pretty accurate, at 6 p.m. as the polling stations close. These are based on exit polls. In the 2013 election, this prediction was just a fraction of a percentage point off from the final results for all parties. Not long after, the broadcasters’ statisticians will publish their initial projection — Hochrechnung — based on results reported by a select number of voting districts that reflect the country’s overall voting behavior. In 2013, the first Hochrechnung was out by 6:15 p.m.
The projection will become more and more accurate as further results are factored in. But even the initial one tends to be fairly accurate. The first one in 2013 showed Merkel’s CDU/CSU at 42 percent, the SPD at 26 percent and the leftist Die Linke in third place with 8.3 percent of the vote. The final results differed only a little: the CDU/CSU won 41.5 percent, the SPD got 25.7 percent and Die Linke scored 8.6 percent.
POLITICO will run a live blog from 10 a.m. until late on election day. The main election TV coverage will not start before 5 p.m. on polling day. As soon as voting centers close, broadcasters will reporting on the exit polls and projections.
The traditional TV program to watch after the results roll in is the so-called Elefantenrunde — the “Elephants’ Roundtable,” so-called because political heavyweights from all the parties elected to parliament take part. Normally, the parties send their lead candidates from the election. Formally called the Berliner Runde, this show will air at 8:15 p.m. on public broadcasters ZDF and ARD. This is typically the moment when the politicians declare victory or admit that they lost — but that’s not always the case.
During a now-famous Elefantenrunde following the 2005 election, then-Chancellor Gerhard Schröder insisted that he could still lead a government after his Social Democrats came in second with 34.2 percent of the vote — compared to the CDU/CSU’s winning score of 35.2 percent under Merkel.
In the end, Merkel did become chancellor and did form a coalition with the SPD, while Schröder stepped down from politics.
The next step is to form a coalition, which can take weeks. After the last election in 2013, it took 86 days before Merkel’s current Cabinet was formed. The parties involved will also draw up a coalition agreement, which lays out what policies and reforms they will pursue in the next four years.
Then it’s the role of the German president — currently Frank-Walter Steinmeier — to propose a chancellor candidate after consulting with the parties. The candidate must be at least 18 years old and be a German citizen, but it is not necessary for them to be a member of the Bundestag themselves.
After the president’s proposal, the candidate must then receive an absolute majority of votes in the Bundestag — that means half the members plus one, also referred to as the “chancellor majority.” The president then officially appoints the chancellor within a week of the vote.
It doesn’t just determine which policies a government will pursue. It also decides which parties take charge of powerful ministries — like finance and foreign affairs. These ministers can have a major impact on global politics, and especially on the European Union.
As the most populous country in Europe, and home to the Continent’s largest economy, Germany plays the leading role in determining the future of the EU. Its influence will be even greater after Brexit in 2019.
That means Germany’s next chancellor and Cabinet members will have a big say in the future of the euro, European defense policy, transatlantic relations and many other issues. And while all of the parties that could end up in a government run on pro-EU tickets, there are still differences. Schulz’s SPD and the Greens are, generally speaking, more keen on deepening European integration — particularly when it comes to the eurozone — than Merkel’s CDU/CSU and especially the FDP.


BERLIN — Germany is likely to end up with a bloated — and less functional — Bundestag after this Sunday’s parliamentary election.
Despite repeated warnings of parliamentary inflation, as reported by POLITICO a year ago, Europe’s most populous country has failed to reform its electoral system and experts predict the unprecedented potpourri of parties expected to enter the assembly this year could bring the number of seats to 700 or even higher.
“If the Bundestag grows to above 670 members, the only countries with larger assemblies would be North Korea and China — obviously systems in which the parliament does not wield any democratic power,” said Sophie Schönberger, a professor of constitutional law at the University of Konstanz.
Currently, Germany’s lower house of parliament has 630 members, versus 598 prescribed in the electoral rulebook — and it’s “very plausible” that it could swell to more than 700 on Sunday, Schönberger said.
The flexible number of parliamentary seats has to do with the fact that Germans cast two ballots in election: the first for a candidate in their constituency; the second for their party of choice via a list.
If a party wins more direct candidates via the first vote than it would be eligible to have via the second vote, it has a right to so-called “overhang seats.” That, in turn, makes the other parties eligible for so-called “leveling seats,” which produced a 631-seat Bundestag in 2013. (That fell to 630 in 2015 when a parliamentarian resigned without being replaced.)
But — believe it or not — this is where things only start to get complicated.
In addition, various factors can have an influence on how seats in the Bundestag are distributed — be it, for example, differences in voter turnout between Germany’s 16 federal states, the share of voters who choose different parties in their first and second vote, or how large the difference between the two largest groups in the parliament is.
Just 2,000 votes in the tiny city-state of Bremen, for example, could theoretically lead to 18 additional seats in the Bundestag, according to constitutional law expert Schönberger — in a country with an overall electorate of 61.5 million.
Although Germany’s voting system is touted as one of the fairest in the world, Bundestag officials acknowledge privately that “with the exception of a few geeks,” barely any member of the parliament fully understands how their seats are distributed.
“It’s absurd,” Schönberger said. “Out of all German voters, there might be a handful of people who can explain to you how the distribution of seats works.”
The legal framework for how to distribute seats in the Bundestag was last reformed in 2011; Germany’s electoral law is, in general, defined only in very broad principles in the Basic Law — the German constitution — and was initially designed with a different political landscape in mind.
If Sunday’s vote does lead to an explosion in the number of seats, the consequences stretch beyond the extra millions of euros the German taxpayer will have to pay.
“This is a question of whether parliament can function or not,” said Frank Decker, a politics professor at the University of Bonn, adding that, for example, “committees, once they reach a certain size, don’t work properly anymore.”
Law professor Schönberger expressed similar concern, cautioning that it was practically impossible for a parliament to function properly once it reaches a certain size. That is “especially dangerous,” she said, in the challenging context of the Bundestag also bracing for the presence of a far-right party — the Alternative for Germany (AfD) — for the first time in more than half a century.
Don’t expect the discussion over Berlin’s bloated Bundestag to disappear after Sunday’s vote.
If the number of seats, as expected, indeed goes up — which won’t be known until late on election night or even the day after — a network of activists is expected to file a complaint about electoral regularities and eventually bring the issue before the Constitutional Court.


PARIS — He was her right-hand man, her geek, her answers guy, ready with emailed talking points at all hours of the day and night — in addition to being a friend.
But now Florian Philippot, who stepped down Thursday as the National Front’s vice president, is out of the picture.
And National Front leader Marine Le Pen has to figure out how her far-right party can adapt to a radically changed political environment without his brain to rely on.
It won’t be easy. Le Pen was never a political theorist. Philippot provided her, wholesale, with the intellectual framework of her anti-EU agenda and taught her how to use it.
Now that he’s gone, Le Pen needs to reassert her battered authority over divided and restive troops after Philippot’s blatant defiance of her leadership.
She also needs to find a new formula that will help the Front avoid extinction in its next two major political battles: municipal and European Parliament elections in 2019, which party troops now see as a historic showdown with Macron’s pro-European form of liberalism. As far as they are concerned, 2019 should be payback time for Le Pen’s heavy loss to Emmanuel Macron in the presidential election this year.
What to expect? Most likely, an abrupt lurch back to traditional National Front messages: anti-immigration, hard-line on law and order, and strong on French cultural identity — with much less emphasis on EU-bashing.
But there will be plenty of twists along the way. Based on talks with some of Le Pen’s senior lieutenants, here’s a roadmap of priorities over the next few months for Europe’s pre-eminent far-right politician.
First things first: banish Philippot’s name, airbrush his likeness from official portraits, smash any statues devoted to him. In the tradition of the Soviet Union’s Communist Party, the National Front immediately got to work dismantling Philippot’s legacy after he left. “He’s a conceptual guy. He doesn’t go into the field. He lacks human empathy, and that crucial political substance: a feeling for people,” said Jean Messiha, a senior party member and campaign strategist. “He had a fixation on the economic question. He considered that everything had to start with an exit from the eurozone.”
Another senior aide, former conservative MP Jérôme Rivière, called Philippot’s decision to leave “childish and capricious.”
“During the legislative elections, he hijacked the party’s message for himself, making it all about the euro,” said Rivière. “He doesn’t let up. Then he founded his own group, in a sort of childish tantrum. I’ve been in politics a long time and I never saw anything like that.”
With Philippot’s legacy rubbed from the history books, Le Pen can start re-establishing her authority over the party in earnest. After her defeat, Philippot was quoted as saying that Le Pen was “burned” — although he denied having said it. A party ally, Robert Ménard, called for her to step down from the National Front’s presidency. Now Le Pen needs to stamp out such talk, or see strong-willed lieutenants like Gilbert Collard steamroll over her.
“It’s true that through this crisis, she’s been weakened, she is diminished. Her leadership is contested. Can she get over it is a fair question. But it’s also a chance for her to show what she’s made of, to reveal the leader inside of her, to appear as totally rid of this very close relationship and learn how to manage the various currents inside the party,” said Messiha.
Once Le Pen has dealt with the direct challenges to her authority, it will be onto the question of just what her party is now proposing to the French people. Clearly, the euro issue will be downgraded as a priority. “When you look at what’s happening with Brexit, where the U.K. people voted and are now going to take years before they actually get out, we need to be realistic. We should not be telling the French people that we can leave immediately. It’s not a priority. What we will propose is control over our borders and a new relationship with the European Union,” said Rivière.
Edouard Ferrand, an MEP, went further on the EU. “We are not an anti-EU party. There are a lot of things to keep about the EU. So we will propose an alternative relationship with the European Union,” he said. Meanwhile, the Front will drill down on the two topics it sees Macron as neglecting: immigration and identity. “We’ll have a political line that’s adapted to the situation of France today. We need to adapt to the circumstances today. If you ask the French what are the main challenges facing the country, they tell you: immigration, Islamism, burkinis. You can make a program out of this question,” said Messiha.
Le Pen will also have to decide whether she maintains the National Front in its isolation, or tries to strike an alliance with another right-wing force. On Friday, Le Pen said she was ready to talk with Laurent Wauquiez, the conservative hard-liner who’s almost certain to become the next president of the conservative Républicains party in December. “Of course,” she said on BFMTV, when asked if she would speak to Wauquiez, who has so far refused to strike any deal with the Front. “But he doesn’t want to.”
“I’ve always been for an alliance of the right,” former conservative MP Rivière said: “This is already happening at the local level, even if Wauquiez is stuck in his attitude of refusal. If he is honest, he will ask the party members if they want to have an exchange with the National Front, and respect their decision.”
Meanwhile, Le Pen and Philippot are competing for the affection of nationalist Nicolas Dupont-Aignan, who joined Le Pen’s campaign between the two rounds of the presidential election, only to break off their alliance weeks later. Both Le Pen and Philippot met Dupont-Aignan over the past 10 days. “Dupont-Aignan is a courageous person,” said Rivière. “He’s already well on his way to accepting a reconfiguration of the right. But it’s not going to happen overnight.”
Then, Le Pen will turn to the next big challenges for her party: the municipal and European elections of 2019. Here, Ferrand said that the Front was preparing a major offensive against Macron’s liberal vision that would come complete with a “positive proposal” for European reform.
“Macron wants to reform the European Union, and is looking for a coalition. But he’s totally narcissistic on this question. He’s not finding any support for his proposals elsewhere in Europe. He’s basically there to save [European Commission President Jean-Claude] Juncker from collapse,” said Ferrand. “What we will put forward is a project that does not oppose the EU, but offers to reform it. For France, we think that Spain is a much more interesting economic model to follow than Germany.”
Finally, there is the question of how to treat Philippot and his allies, who are ready to launch a group called the Patriots, likely to compete with the Front for votes. “The idea for now is to have a discussion group, a place where we can organize for the future. We are going to regroup, propose a political project for the French people. Everything is open,” said Philippe Murer, Le Pen’s former economic adviser who left to join Philippot in his new organization.


BUDAPEST — Poland and Hungary are teaming up in their fight against Brussels, even though they are divided on how precisely to approach dealings with the EU and on other major foreign policy matters.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán met Poland’s Beata Szydło in Warsaw on Friday, just ahead of a meeting of European affairs ministers on September 25, where Poland’s rule-of-law row with Brussels is on the agenda. EU leaders are also expected to discuss Hungary and Poland at their summit next month.
“What’s happening to Poland now in the EU is a lack of respect,” Orbán said in a joint news conference with Szydło. “Criticism about Poland not observing the rule of law is groundless,” he said, calling Poland and Hungary “guardians” of the foundations of the EU.
Both countries face multiple EU infringement proceedings, and have repeatedly indicated that they will not take in any asylum seekers, rejecting the Commission’s quota system for migrants.
Earlier this month, the European Court of Justice dismissed a challenge by Slovakia and Hungary against the EU’s relocation policy for asylum seekers, upholding the EU’s right to oblige member countries to take in refugees.
“We acknowledge the verdict of the European court,” Szydło told the news conference, while noting that during the meeting the Polish and Hungarian sides confirmed their joint position on migration and that her government will prioritize the safety of Polish citizens.
In May, the European Parliament called for the triggering of Article 7 against Hungary, a procedure which has never been used before and could in theory lead to it losing its voting rights in the EU.
Poland is under scrutiny for its controversial judicial reforms and the European Commission is considering launching Article 7 proceedings against Warsaw, though Orbán has pledged to veto any such move against his Polish friends.
“Our politicians are very careful because they need Orbán for their battles with the European Commission,” said a Polish government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
“It’s good for the Polish government to cooperate with Orbán for domestic reasons, because some of the Polish right wing admires him,” said the Polish official.
Piotr Buras, who heads the European Council on Foreign Relations’ Warsaw office, said the two countries share a similar “illiberal democracy model.”
“What brings them together is in fact something more ideological than political, it’s an opposition to the West European model of society, culture, and politics,” he said.
At the same time, they are increasingly at risk of being isolated within Europe.
“The Visegrad Four is more and more turning into a Visegrad Two group, where the Czechs and Slovaks are the more open partners, while the Hungarians and Poles are considered EU renegades,” said Hungarian opposition politician Bernadett Szél, who serves as co-chair of the Politics Can Be Different (LMP) party.
But while Hungary and Poland are united in their opposition to criticism from Brussels, they differ greatly in other foreign policy priorities.
While Hungary maintains close ties to the Kremlin, Warsaw sees Russia as a security threat and prioritizes boosting defense and promoting energy independence from Russia — aims that the government in Budapest does not share.
“We understand Hungary judges Russia and Russian actions from its own perspective,” the Polish foreign ministry said in a written statement. “What’s most important is that despite some differences regarding Russia’s aggressive policy in Ukraine, Poland and Hungary are standing shoulder-to-shoulder on EU sanctions imposed on Moscow.”
Members of Poland’s ruling Law and Justice party (PiS) insist Budapest’s relationship with the Kremlin is not a hurdle.
“Differences between Warsaw and Budapest on Russia will not have an impact on our joint actions with regard to the EU,” said Polish MEP Ryszard Czarnecki, a member of PiS. “Prime Minister Orbán is talking with Mr. Kaczyński and Prime Minister Szydło about coordination of these actions.”
This view is echoed in Budapest, where officials emphasize the role of the Visegrad Group.
“The basis of our long-standing cooperation has always been mutual trust, a similar historical and cultural background and a pragmatic focus on those issues where we can, at least partially, agree,” said Krisztina Varju, ministerial commissioner for the Hungarian presidency of the Visegrad Group, in a written statement to POLITICO.
“We seek respect, acceptance and equality within all debates that concern us within the EU, including those about migration and the EU’s future,” she wrote.
But despite Hungary’s combative rhetoric toward Brussels and public commitment to defending Poland, Budapest ultimately appears more flexible and open to solutions than Warsaw.
“Orbán is much more pragmatic when it comes to intra-European relations, he has a much better network in Europe than [PiS leader Jarosław] Kaczyński,” said Buras of the ECFR.
“At the European level, [Orbán] is less ideological than Kaczyński. Kaczyński really believes in what he says,” he said, while Hungary “is more inclined to engage in compromises.”
Michał Broniatowski contributed reporting from Warsaw.


Germany’s election campaign looks different from others fought across European and Western democracies.
One reason is German political parties are afraid to use the most cutting-edge election campaign tools, worried that voter data will be stored outside of Germany — a practice frowned upon within the country.
Speaking to POLITICO’s EU Confidential podcast, Toni Cowan-Brown from NationBuilder — whose software has been used in campaigns as diverse as those for Brexit, Bernie Sanders and Emmanuel Macron’s République En Marche! movement — said German political parties turned down the chance to replicate such campaigns.
“We are not doing any work in Germany,” said Cowan-Brown, who counts even the communist Workers’ Party of Belgium among her clients.
Talks with most of Germany’s political parties hit a wall around local data storage, she said. “It came back to the same argument that if your data is not stored in Germany, we can’t do any work.
“What’s interesting is it’s not even about the data being stored in Europe. It’s about being stored in Germany,” Cowan-Brown said, adding that this approach makes no sense in a world where the European Union guarantees the same data privacy standards across the Continent.

German data sensitivities can be traced back to the surveillance of the Nazi regime in the 1930s and 1940s, as well as East Germany’s secret Stasi police during the Cold War.
Against that backdrop, German parties prefer to stick to small rallies, billboards and their own bespoke digital tools — methods Cowan-Brown says other European countries are slowly leaving behind.
“Everyone thinks that they’re unique,” said Cowan-Brown. “But at the end of the day, if you’re running a political party, there’s only a couple of things that you should be focused on: getting your volunteers, getting word of mouth out there, getting donations and door-knocking.
“Why does a political party want to spend its time and its money building tech when it’s not equipped to do it?”
Cowan-Brown’s top advice to political candidates?
“The most successful were the ones that were willing to decentralize power,” she said. “The other ones that were most successful were people who actually love data.
“It’s not about big data, it’s about smart data. Who cares if you’ve got a million people in a database. If you actually don’t know who these people are, you don’t know how much they matter to you. Then you’ve just got a massive Excel sheet.”


BERLIN — The mood in Berlin’s political circles as the hours tick down toward election day might best be described by that ur-German instinct – angst.
Even though most of Berlin’s political hacks remain convinced Angela Merkel will win by a comfortable margin in Sunday’s parliamentary election, they’re unnerved by a last-minute surge by the Alternative for Germany (AfD), a far-right party that until a few weeks ago many in the establishment believed had been defanged, at least for the moment.
As the campaign winds to a close, all but one of Germany’s leading pollsters project the party will finish in double digits. It scored 12 percent in the benchmark Deutschlandtrend poll last week, for example. Germany’s two biggest parties, Merkel’s Christian Democrats and the center-left Social Democrats (SPD), meanwhile, have suffered slight losses in recent weeks.
Though the race for the bronze medal is still too close to call, there’s no denying the AfD is gaining momentum. A third-place finish — behind the Merkel’s conservative bloc and the SPD — could make the AfD Germany’s largest opposition party, bestowing on it a host of privileges, including generous public financing, that would make it a formidable political force.
A robust showing by the AfD would also complicate the coalition math for Merkel, possibly narrowing her options to another “grand coalition” with the SPD, an outcome many argue would only further strengthen the AfD.
The populist, anti-immigrant movement saw its star rise amid the refugee crisis in 2015. But after Merkel’s government toughened asylum rules and the influx of migrants began to ebb, support for the party weakened.
After hitting a high of 16 percent in polls last September, the AfD fell to as low as 8 percent in August. The party was also plagued by infighting, further blunting its appeal.
Germany’s centrist parties, especially Merkel’s Christian Democrats (CDU), had taken comfort in the AfD’s dwindling fortunes for months.
“Trust in politics, especially in the CDU, has grown,” Peter Altmaier, Merkel’s chief of staff, said recently.
The AfD, meanwhile, stuck to its extremist anti-Merkel, anti-establishment playbook. What appeared to be missteps — such as a private email exchange in which party leader Alice Weidel reportedly attacked Germany’s democratic system and called the ruling political class “pigs”— did little to halt the AfD’s momentum.
Mainstream politicians, led by Altmaier, sought to ostracize the party, going as far as to tell Germans it was better not to vote at all than to vote for the AfD. Leading Social Democrats castigated the AfD as “Nazis.”
Critics say such attacks have only backfired.
“Given the prospect that the AfD could finish third on Sunday, this strategy can only be described as a spectacular failure,“ Jasper von Altenbockum, politics editor at the daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, concluded this week, arguing that the insults have only mobilized the AfD’s base.
Such last-minute skirmishes notwithstanding, it’s also true that populist parties often strengthen in the final stages of election campaigns.
That effect is typically stronger when the projected outcome, as in the case of the German election, is a foregone conclusion.
Perhaps the best explanation for the late resurgence of the AfD is the perceived inevitability of another four years of Merkel as chancellor and a sense that no matter whom she governs with, little will change.
Even for close observers of Germany’s humdrum election campaign, identifying the policy differences between the big parties can be difficult.
That harmony was on full display in the only televised debate between Merkel and Martin Schulz, her Social Democrat challenger, in early September.
Some analysts say the encounter was a turning point in the campaign because it shifted the focus to smaller parties.
Here too, the AfD appears to have benefited from its outsider image. Of the five parties running against Merkel’s conservatives, three — the SPD, the Greens and Free Democrats — are open to a coalition with the chancellor.
That means voters ardently opposed to Merkel have only two real options — the leftist Die Linke party and the AfD.
What’s more, when it comes to immigration, an issue polls show is top of mind for many Germans, the AfD is the only party prepared to take a hard line on admitting asylum seekers.
The reemergence of the refugee crisis in recent months in the media appears to have bolstered the AfD’s position. Italy’s struggle to cope with an upsurge in arrivals from Africa in the summer renewed fears in Germany that it could face a new wave of migrants traveling north over the Brenner Pass through Austria to the German border.
Despite that prospect, Merkel has steadfastly declined to back away from her resistance to setting an upper limit on asylum seekers, a key demand of conservatives in her own camp.
For now, Merkel and her strategists can do little but sit and wait for the projections to roll in on Sunday afternoon. The party has been polling in the mid-30s, well below the 41.5 percent it won in 2013.
Even senior party officials appear to have little confidence in Sunday’s outcome.
“Everything is possible, from 31 to 43 percent,” Reiner Haseloff, CDU premier in Saxony-Anhalt, reportedly told colleagues this week.


FLORENCE, Italy — The U.K. wants to continue operating under EU single market rules for at least two years after Brexit, during which time it will pay its EU budget commitments and allow freedom of movement to continue, Theresa May said in a landmark Brexit speech Friday.
Her position means the U.K. will stay inside the single market in all but name during a transition period, though without any say over its rules. Such an interim arrangement could last two years, May said, but she did not rule out a longer transition if one was needed. A two-year transition would mean few tangible changes as a result of Brexit until 2021 — five years after the referendum.
While the EU’s chief Brexit negotiator and other senior officials welcomed May’s speech as a signal of her willingness to move forward in a constructive fashion, they strongly criticized her for not providing sufficient clarity on the three main divorce issues: citizens’ rights, the financial settlement and Ireland.
Seeking to clarify some of the contradictions inherent in the U.K.’s Brexit position, and to reassure the EU that the U.K. wants a mutually beneficial deal, May said the “implementation period” was necessary and that “people and businesses — both in the U.K. and in the EU — would benefit from a period to adjust to the new arrangements in a smooth and orderly way.”
“Businesses and public services should only have to plan for one set of changes in the relationship between the U.K. and the EU,” she said.
In a bid to break deadlock in the Brexit negotiation, which have stalled over the question of the divorce bill, May made clear that the U.K. would meet its budget commitments made as a member — a reference to the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) budget plan, which runs till the end of 2020, meaning the U.K. would continue paying contributions during its transition. U.K. officials said this covers around €20 billion of Britain’s financial obligations.
“I do not want our partners to fear that they will need to pay more or receive less over the remainder of the current budget plan as a result of our decision to leave. The U.K. will honor commitments we have made during the period of our membership” she said.
May said the U.K. would also pay the cost of remaining in certain EU programs after Brexit. Other financial obligations, such as pensions payments, remained a matter for negotiation, U.K. officials said.
During the transition, trading between the U.K. and EU single market “should continue on current terms,” May said, conceding that this would mean the “framework” for the trading relationship being “the existing structure of EU rules and regulations.”
The proposal goes further than Britain’s previous stance and brings the government’s position close to that demanded by the opposition Labour Party and by British businesses.
This will see the U.K. allow the continuation of freedom of movement during a transition — something that had previously been a red line for May. The U.K. will require EU citizens coming to work in the U.K. during the transition to register with British authorities, but officials characterized this as within EU rules and similar to measures already taken by other countries such as Belgium.
Britain would use the transition to finalize terms of its new, long-term relationship with the EU, May said.
EU reaction
In the EU’s official response, chief negotiator Michel Barnier described May’s speech as a welcome expression of a “willingness to move forward” but called for more clarity on virtually every point.
“Prime Minister May’s statements are a step forward but they must now be translated into a precise negotiating position of the U.K. government,” he said, referring to May saying that EU citizens in Britain would have their rights protected because ECJ rulings would be absorbed into U.K. law and U.K. courts could continue to take ECJ rulings into account after Brexit.
On the Irish border, he said the speech “does not clarify how the U.K. intends to honor its special responsibility for the consequences of its withdrawal for Ireland.”
And on the financial settlement, Barnier said it was far from certain that her offer to keep the EU’s current budget plan whole would be sufficient for the U.K. to meet all of its financial obligations as it leaves the EU.
“We look forward to the United Kingdom’s negotiators explaining the concrete implications of Prime Minister Theresa May’s speech,” Barnier said.
The Frenchman also flashed warning signs over May’s request for a transition period, noting the U.K. would lose its voting rights and decision-making power as a member, but would still be required to obey EU law and meet all other obligations of membership in its single market.
“The fact that the government of the United Kingdom recognizes that leaving the European Union means that it cannot keep all the benefits of membership with fewer obligations than the other member states is welcome,” Barnier said, adding:  “The EU will continue to insist on sufficient progress in the key areas of the orderly withdrawal of the United Kingdom before opening discussions on the future relationship. Agreeing on the essential principles in these areas will create the trust that is needed for us to build a future relationship together.”
Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni echoed Barnier’s remarks.
Gentiloni — who sent a pointed message by not attending the speech even though it was in Italy — called May’s address “constructive.”
“Now time to put these to the test at the negotiations with the EU,” the Italian prime minister tweeted.
Other EU officials reacted coolly to May’s speech.
Poland’s EU affairs minister, Konrad Szymanski, said in a statement that the financial settlement remained “the real problematic issue that remains to be resolved” and that the EU would agree to talk about a transitional period with the U.K. “only if that could lead to complete fulfillment of U.K.’s commitments.”
“Membership of the U.K. in the single market as well as the customs union translates into regulatory and financial obligations of the U.K. towards the EU,” Szymanski said.
In the European Parliament, which holds veto power over any withdrawal agreement with the U.K., there was little cheering.
Manfred Weber, leader of the European People’s Party group, criticized May’s speech and said it would only make the Brexit process harder. “In substance PM May is bringing no more clarity to London’s positions,” Weber tweeted. “I am even more concerned now.”
Guy Verhofstadt, the Parliament’s Brexit coordinator, said the U.K’s proposals for a registration system for EU citizens who want to live in the U.K. was “out of the question.”
“Theresa May sounds like Donald Trump,” said Jo Leinen, a German Socialist MEP and member of the European Parliament’s Constitutional Affairs Committee. “May puts national selfishness over jointly agreed decisions in the EU.”
Senior diplomats working on Brexit had a previously scheduled meeting at the European Council on Friday afternoon, giving them a convenient opportunity to confer about May’s speech. They seemed mostly unimpressed.
“Mostly wordy or unclear,” one senior diplomat told POLITICO. “First and foremost, it now remains to be translated into action by negotiators on Monday. We don’t negotiate on the basis of a speech.”
Another diplomat said May appeared to have a fundamental misreading of EU sentiment going forward. “She talks about EU and U.K. as if we are two equal countries wanting a relationship,” the diplomat said. “That’s fundamentally getting it wrong. They are leaving the EU. They are 60 million. We are 450.”
The speech was received warmly by the British business lobby who said their voice had been heard. When in July the Confederation of British Industry called for the U.K. to stay in the single market and the customs union for as long as it took to agree a new U.K.-EU relationship, it seemed like an unlikely scenario.
Now, with May noncommittal about the length of a transition, and proposing something that, while not strictly single market or customs union membership, looks almost exactly the same, the CBI said it felt vindicated.
“The prime minister’s speech has set a positive tone and we now need leadership from both sides to turn the proposals and principles into decisions and action,” said CBI Director General Carolyn Fairbairn.
The opposition Labour Party, which in August shifted its position to call for continued single market and customs union membership during a transition, also claimed a victory.
Leader Jeremy Corbyn said May had “listened to Labour and faced up to the reality that Britain needs a transition on the same basic terms to provide stability for businesses and workers.”
After weeks of clashes within her Cabinet over the nature of the future relationship, May ruled out two opposing “off the shelf” models — European Economic Area membership, and a trade deal along the lines the EU has agreed with Canada. She said long-term EEA membership — the Norway model, under which the U.K would be in the single market but with no say over EU rules — would represent a “loss of democratic control” that “could not work for the British people.” On the Canada model, she said the U.K.’s existing regulatory harmony with the EU meant that the two sides could “do so much better” with a deeper, more comprehensive free – trade agreement.
On the rights of EU citizens already in the U.K. and British citizens on the Continent, May reiterated her position that the U.K. would enshrine its agreement with the EU into U.K. law, and that British courts could continue to “take into account” new judgments by the European Court of Justice on questions of rights after Brexit. However, British courts would not be bound to doing so, U.K. officials said.
The speech sought to reassure the EU that the U.K. would not be a rival or seek to undercut the single market by creating a low tax, low regulation, Singapore-style economy. There were no threats, as in May’s January Lancaster House speech, to change the U.K.’s economic model if access to the single market were denied.
But reflecting on the U.K.’s place in Europe, May said the U.K. had “never totally felt at home” in the EU and portrayed the Brexit vote as a choice to bring democratic control closer to home.
“Perhaps because of our history and geography, the European Union never felt to us like an integral part of our national story in the way it does to so many elsewhere in Europe,” she said.
“It is a matter of choices. The profound pooling of sovereignty that is a crucial feature of the European Union permits unprecedentedly deep cooperation, which brings benefits.”


French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday formally signed controversial laws overhauling the country’s labor rules, Reuters reported.
Macron promised when he was elected earlier this year to reform the labor legislation. The new rules aim to inject greater flexibility into the job market and kickstart hiring to reduce unemployment.
Other changes Macron wants to push through to reinvigorate the economy include a change to the unemployment benefit and pension systems.
Macron’s popularity has plummeted over the past month, partly due to controversy over the reform, which has been greeted with mass street protests.
The law will take effect until further decrees containing futher details are signed before the end of the year.


The fight between the Catalan independence movement and Spanish authorities over an independence vote is expanding into the online world.
This week, an organization managing how users find websites with the .cat extension was raided by the Civil Guard, a Spanish police force, according to the organization’s chief executive officer and the Spanish interior ministry.
The .cat Foundation, which manages the register of domains ending in .cat, was forced to block websites with information about the referendum that the Catalan independence movement hopes to hold October 1, but which is considered unlawful by Spanish authorities.
The authorities’ actions enraged internet activists in Spain and beyond — not over the independence issue but the right to freedom of information online.
The raid came days after a Spanish court sent a seizure warrant on September 15 requiring that the foundation block websites related to the referendum. The foundation said the court order was of “unprecedented and absolute scope.”
“It is a disaster,” said Eduard Martin Lineros, who heads .cat Foundation. “We have been forced — for first time in the history of internet in Spain — to block four .cat domains related to the referendum.”
The websites referendum.cat and ref1oct.cat display a message that appears to be written by the Spanish military police saying it has been seized. The Civil Guard did not answer POLITICO’s questions about these domains and the intervention.
The warrant, seen by POLITICO, asks to block the domain ref1oct.cat, now offline, and stop the domain from being accessed in other ways. It also appears to instruct the foundation to stop any content related to the referendum from being accessed through .cat domains, though the wording of the warrant is unclear in this respect and, according to two Spanish legal experts, might require clarification.
Requiring a top-level domain — like .com, .org, .eu and many others — to block websites would stop visitors from finding those websites when typing their URL. The websites themselves would still exist but average internet users would be barred from finding the information by browsing to the websites or through an standard search on a search engine.
Organizations generally comply with targeted court orders asking them to block certain websites, for instance when a judge finds illegal content like child pornography is being hosted.
But, said Peter Van Roste, general manager of the Council of European National Top-level Domain Registries (CENTR), these top-level domain organizations shouldn’t be forced to scan or monitor all domains that fall under its register.
“Suddenly, you’re forced, as a technical operator, to play the part of law enforcement,” Van Roste said.
The raid is part of a broad initiative of the Spanish national government to stop Catalan citizens from casting a ballot for or against the secession of the region from Spain. This week the national police confiscated ballot papers and conducted a series of raids on organizations promoting the referendum. A court order from September 8 instructed law enforcement authorities to take measures to seize material used to organize the referendum and also ordered the shutdown of the official website for the referendum.
The .cat domain is used by more than 110,000 websites promoting or showing information about Catalonia, its culture and language. The website of the foundation running it shows the domains are intended to “raise the profile of the Catalan identity” and “develop the Catalan-speaking Information Society.” The list includes a fan club website for the football club FC Barcelona, a weather website meteo.cat, academic websites and local blogs.
The Spanish authorities’ move to target this top-level domain raises serious concerns with those trying to defend internet freedom and the freedom of expression from such shutdowns.
“We do not see it as the expertise and mandate of top-level domain operators within the Internet’s ecosystem to engage in monitoring and blocking of content outside of receiving judicial requests related to specific domains,” the Internet Society, one of the key non-profit organizations underpinning the internet, said in a statement sent to POLITICO. “We believe actions that impede the ability of any local community to use the Internet freely are unacceptable,” they said.
The technique is also used in attempts by governments to shut down parts of the internet and block or remove certain information.
“I don’t think I’ve ever heard of any state actually asking for a whole top-level domain to be affected this way, and even weirder that it’s happening in a supposedly democratic part of the EU,” said Peter Sunde, an internet activist best-known for co-founding the Pirate Bay website. Earlier this week, he sent out a call to website administrators who had their websites taken down, offering them to host their content anonymously and out of the reach of Spanish authorities.
He said he is helping certain sites to stay online, but fears more sites will be affected in coming days: “If this is moving at the current pace, we’re looking at a situation of takedowns and censorship that I don’t think we’ve ever seen before in the internet history.”
The European Commission has carefully avoided taking sides on the Catalan referendum issue. In its daily briefing in Brussels on Thursday, the Commission said it had nothing to add on Catalonia and the referendum that the regional government plans to hold on October 1.
“We are respecting the Spanish constitutional order,” chief spokesperson Margaritis Schinas said.
Jakob Hanke contributed to this article.


French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday formally signed controversial laws overhauling the country’s labor rules, Reuters reported.
Macron promised when he was elected earlier this year to reform the labor legislation. The new rules aim to inject greater flexibility into the job market and kickstart hiring to reduce unemployment.
Other changes Macron wants to push through to reinvigorate the economy include a change to the unemployment benefit and pension systems.
Macron’s popularity has plummeted over the past month, partly due to controversy over the reform, which has been greeted with mass street protests.
The law will take effect until further decrees containing futher details are signed before the end of the year.


The fight between the Catalan independence movement and Spanish authorities over an independence vote is expanding into the online world.
This week, an organization managing how users find websites with the .cat extension was raided by the Civil Guard, a Spanish police force, according to the organization’s chief executive officer and the Spanish interior ministry.
The .cat Foundation, which manages the register of domains ending in .cat, was forced to block websites with information about the referendum that the Catalan independence movement hopes to hold October 1, but which is considered unlawful by Spanish authorities.
The authorities’ actions enraged internet activists in Spain and beyond — not over the independence issue but the right to freedom of information online.
The raid came days after a Spanish court sent a seizure warrant on September 15 requiring that the foundation block websites related to the referendum. The foundation said the court order was of “unprecedented and absolute scope.”
“It is a disaster,” said Eduard Martin Lineros, who heads .cat Foundation. “We have been forced — for first time in the history of internet in Spain — to block four .cat domains related to the referendum.”
The websites referendum.cat and ref1oct.cat display a message that appears to be written by the Spanish military police saying it has been seized. The Civil Guard did not answer POLITICO’s questions about these domains and the intervention.
The warrant, seen by POLITICO, asks to block the domain ref1oct.cat, now offline, and stop the domain from being accessed in other ways. It also appears to instruct the foundation to stop any content related to the referendum from being accessed through .cat domains, though the wording of the warrant is unclear in this respect and, according to two Spanish legal experts, might require clarification.
Requiring a top-level domain — like .com, .org, .eu and many others — to block websites would stop visitors from finding those websites when typing their URL. The websites themselves would still exist but average internet users would be barred from finding the information by browsing to the websites or through an standard search on a search engine.
Organizations generally comply with targeted court orders asking them to block certain websites, for instance when a judge finds illegal content like child pornography is being hosted.
But, said Peter Van Roste, general manager of the Council of European National Top-level Domain Registries (CENTR), these top-level domain organizations shouldn’t be forced to scan or monitor all domains that fall under its register.
“Suddenly, you’re forced, as a technical operator, to play the part of law enforcement,” Van Roste said.
The raid is part of a broad initiative of the Spanish national government to stop Catalan citizens from casting a ballot for or against the secession of the region from Spain. This week the national police confiscated ballot papers and conducted a series of raids on organizations promoting the referendum. A court order from September 8 instructed law enforcement authorities to take measures to seize material used to organize the referendum and also ordered the shutdown of the official website for the referendum.
The .cat domain is used by more than 110,000 websites promoting or showing information about Catalonia, its culture and language. The website of the foundation running it shows the domains are intended to “raise the profile of the Catalan identity” and “develop the Catalan-speaking Information Society.” The list includes a fan club website for the football club FC Barcelona, a weather website meteo.cat, academic websites and local blogs.
The Spanish authorities’ move to target this top-level domain raises serious concerns with those trying to defend internet freedom and the freedom of expression from such shutdowns.
“We do not see it as the expertise and mandate of top-level domain operators within the Internet’s ecosystem to engage in monitoring and blocking of content outside of receiving judicial requests related to specific domains,” the Internet Society, one of the key non-profit organizations underpinning the internet, said in a statement sent to POLITICO. “We believe actions that impede the ability of any local community to use the Internet freely are unacceptable,” they said.
The technique is also used in attempts by governments to shut down parts of the internet and block or remove certain information.
“I don’t think I’ve ever heard of any state actually asking for a whole top-level domain to be affected this way, and even weirder that it’s happening in a supposedly democratic part of the EU,” said Peter Sunde, an internet activist best-known for co-founding the Pirate Bay website. Earlier this week, he sent out a call to website administrators who had their websites taken down, offering them to host their content anonymously and out of the reach of Spanish authorities.
He said he is helping certain sites to stay online, but fears more sites will be affected in coming days: “If this is moving at the current pace, we’re looking at a situation of takedowns and censorship that I don’t think we’ve ever seen before in the internet history.”
The European Commission has carefully avoided taking sides on the Catalan referendum issue. In its daily briefing in Brussels on Thursday, the Commission said it had nothing to add on Catalonia and the referendum that the regional government plans to hold on October 1.
“We are respecting the Spanish constitutional order,” chief spokesperson Margaritis Schinas said.
Jakob Hanke contributed to this article.


From right-wing extremists to pet-stroking satirists, a record 42 political parties have registered to take part in this Sunday’s German parliamentary election.
Most of these parties have no chance of joining Chancellor Angela Merkel, who is all but certain to win a fourth term, and other bigshots in the next Bundestag. But they provide a window into the wide spectrum of political opinion that exists in Germany beyond the mainstream.
Here’s a look at some of the smaller parties competing for votes on Sunday.
The extreme-right National Democratic Party of Germany (NPD) is often referred to as a neo-Nazi organization and lawmakers have unsuccessfully sought to get the party banned — twice.
The first attempt to have the Constitutional Court declare the NPD unconstitutional collapsed in 2003 because judges rejected evidence obtained through undercover agents who had infiltrated the party.
A second attempt ended in failure this year due to Germany’s high bar for banning political parties, established to prevent a repeat of the Nazi regime’s practice of outlawing opponents. The Constitutional Court ruled in January that while the NPD’s politics are “incompatible with democracy,” the party is too weak to pose a real threat.
The NPD received 1.3 percent of the vote in the 2013 German parliamentary election — not enough to make it into the Bundestag — and has one representative in the European Parliament, Udo Voigt.
Since the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) was founded in 2013, the NPD has lost some of its supporters to the upstart party.
NPD posters for this year’s election include one that states “asylum lobby = terror helpers,” and another depicting migrants at sea on an inflatable raft with the words, “We take the air out of asylum politics.”

During the election campaign, the NPD posted a message on Facebook that questioned whether one of the first black Bundestag members was truly German.
Founded after the end of World War II in 1946, the Bavaria Party (BP) wants a referendum on independence for the south German state. It is part of a political coalition called the European Free Alliance that also includes Catalan and Scottish independence parties.
BP argues that, as a state of 12 million people, Bavaria is just as viable an independent country as the likes of Belgium, Hungary or Sweden.
A poll in July lent some support to BP’s separatist stance, revealing that one in three Bavarians wanted to be independent of Germany — the highest proportion to support secession in any of the 16 states.
In one campaign poster, the party declares, “It’s time for the great Bavarian revolt!” next to a statue of a Bavarian folk legend “The Smith of Kochel.”

B* describes itself as an “eco-anarchistic, real-Dadaist melting pot.” Its website boasts that the party has been going for 12 years under the motto of “small but slow, like a vampire snail that has sunk its teeth into the political party landscape.”
Among other things, the campaign calls for an unconditional basic income, leaving the NATO alliance, and “melting down a car for each felled tree.”

Die Einheit — which means unity — calls itself the “only party in Germany” that represents the voice of ethnic Germans who immigrated from former Soviet states. The majority are Russian-Germans, like the party’s founder, Dimitri Rempel.
Critics, including Russian sociologist and Vladimir Putin doubter Igor Eidman, have accused the party of helping to support the Kremlin’s agenda at a time when German leaders, including Merkel, have warned about potential meddling by Russia in the election. Rempel himself has denied being financed or influenced by Russia.
Die Einheit organized protests in the Russian-German community over a highly politicized case that led to diplomatic tensions between Berlin and Moscow last year. A 13-year-old Russian-German girl initially reported being kidnapped and raped by “Arab-looking” migrants in Berlin, but later admitted to inventing the story. Police found she had stayed with a friend on the day she was reported missing.
Literally “The Party,” the group started by editors of the humorous Titanic magazine in 2004 became the first satirical party to win a seat in the European Parliament in 2014.
Its campaigns take aim at traditional political parties: Its policies include blaming Putin “for everything,” and planning a “beer price control” similar to rent control. In one poster mocking Merkel’s slogan, “For a Germany in which we live well and happily,” a Die Partei candidate is pictured holding a rabbit with the words “For a Germany in which we pet cute animals well and happily.”

Die Partei also hijacked 31 AfD Facebook fan groups, renaming one page formerly called “Homeland Love” to “Hummus Love.”
A relic of the Cold War, the German Communist Party (DKP) was formed in West Germany in 1968 after the Constitutional Court banned the previous communist party, the KPD, in 1956 for rejecting the “principles and institutions … of a free and democratic order.” The DKP was supported financially by communist East Germany’s ruling Socialist Unity Party (SED), but has never made it into the Bundestag.
Not to be confused with the DKP, the Marxist-Leninist Party (MLPD) is another champion of communist dogma in modern Germany, but one that also “defends the merits” of Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin, as it says on its website.
The MLPD created a stir in the Israeli press this election cycle because a group called “Sympathizers of the PFLP” is listed as a supporter organization on its campaign website. The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) is a secular, Marxist-Leninist Palestinian organization, and is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the United States and the EU. It is not, however, banned in Germany.


British Prime Minister Theresa May will lay out her vision for Brexit in Florence on Friday.
The choice of a location “in the heart of Europe” means she will be primarily addressing the EU27 and Brussels rather than a domestic audience.
The run-up to May’s speech has been overshadowed by Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson’s 4,000-word piece in the Telegraph setting out his vision of how Brexit can “succeed mightily.”
Follow POLITICO’s live blog for all the news and reactions.


Britain’s front pages mainly previewed Prime Minister Theresa May’s much-awaited speech on Brexit in Florence, Italy. “May’s vision for Brexit victory,” read the pro-Brexit tabloid Daily Express. “PM’s bold bid to end Brexit deadlock,” the Daily Mail wrote. The i reported May will offer a €20-billion divorce settlement (estimates of the EU’s demands range from €60-100 billion.)




Le Monde led with a report on longtime Marine Le Pen aide Florian Philippot’s departure from the National Front. The MEP’s move was “a symptom of crisis” in the party, its headline read. The front page also carried pictures of protests in Catalonia, where the confrontation between pro-independence activists and national government forces “is radicalized,” the paper said. Le Figaro also led with Philippot’s departure, saying it was now up to Le Pen to put the National Front’s house in order. The paper also reported on President Emmanuel Macron’s proposed labor reform, detailing expected changes. Libération’s front page was devoted to Germany’s Sunday election. “In the end, is it Merkel who wins?” its headline read.


The Catalan regional government continued its confrontation with the Spanish government after police arrested more than a dozen Catalan officials and authorities confiscated election material. El País reported Catalan regional President Carles Puigdemont “responds with a step towards the referendum,” which the Spanish government has deemed illegal. El Mundo, which does not support Catalonia’s bid to secede, led with “Catalan police cede the streets to separatists to bully judges.” Catalonia-based El Periódico’s headline was “Puigdemont maintains the pulse of the referendum.” El Punt Avui, which supports secession, led with “Permanent mobilization.”




Despite the election this weekend, the German press focused on U.S. President Donald Trump, more specifically on the chance he may scupper the Iran nuclear deal, against German and French wishes. Frankfurter Allgemeine led with: “Iran: Trump speaks like a cowboy and gangster.” The Süddeutsche Zeitung also reported on the U.S.’s possible withdrawal from the deal, leading with “Europe ready to go against Trump.”




BERLIN — Resistance is growing within the influential left wing of Germany’s Social Democrats against spending another term in Angela Merkel’s shadow as junior government partner to the chancellor’s conservatives.
“For anyone who’s grown up in the SPD, the conservatives are the main enemy,” deputy party chief Ralf Stegner told POLITICO. “No one can go into this election with the aim of continuing a ‘grand coalition.’”
With Merkel cruising toward a fourth term after Sunday’s parliamentary election — she has a comfortable 15-point lead over Martin’s Schulz’s center-left SPD — the main question on voters’ minds is who will end up as her coalition partner and give her a governing majority in the Bundestag.
For eight of Merkel’s 12 years in office so far, she has governed in a “grand coalition” with the SPD, and she has already dropped hints that she would be willing to stick to that model after the September 24 vote.
However, with Schulz also starting to prepare the ground for another grand coalition by setting out his red lines, many inside the SPD’s left wing — particularly grassroots members campaigning on the ground — would plainly prefer to go into opposition.
“We’re coming out of the second grand coalition now, and although we Social Democrats have done good work, the chancellor gets the credit for the successes while we get the blame for the mishaps,” said Stegner, who is one of the most senior and prominent faces of the SPD’s left wing. “That’s another reason why a grand coalition is not very popular in the party.”
SPD members in the German capital privately speak of an internal split.
While the leadership, eyeing prestigious posts as ministers and state secretaries, is generally more supportive of another grand coalition, officials further down the food chain fear this will further erode support for the party, which won more than 34 percent of the national vote 12 years ago but is now at just 22 percent in opinion polls. It could also cost them seats in the Bundestag, they fear.
Whether or not a majority inside the SPD supports another grand coalition will play a decisive role after the vote, as SPD party chief Schulz announced earlier this month that he wants to have the entire party membership vote on any potential future alliance.
With resistance growing on the left wing of the SPD, much will depend on the support of the second large grouping in the party — the centrist Seeheimer Kreis.
“I am campaigning until [ballots close on] Sunday at 6 p.m.,” said Johannes Kahrs, an MP and one of the spokespeople of the Seeheimer Kreis.
He declined to comment on the prospect of another grand coalition but said his first preference would be for a so-called “traffic-light coalition” of the Social Democrats (whose color is red), the liberal Free Democrats (yellow) and the Greens.
Mathematically, that constellation is highly unlikely to garner enough votes on Sunday to form a governing coalition, while another grand coalition is the most likely outcome. That’s clearly not a bad option for Merkel, who has openly praised the achievements of the current coalition with the SPD, whom she praises for their cooperative attitude.
“For Merkel and her conservatives it would be best if they could continue governing with an even weaker SPD,” said Frank Decker, a politics professor at the University of Bonn.
“But then, Germany gets a problem,” he added. “Then, populists like [far-left] Die Linke and particularly the [far-right] Alternative for Germany (AfD) would profit even more from the discontent among voters.”
Raising similar concerns, the SPD’s left wing is determined not to make it easy for Merkel — or the rest of their party — once coalition talks start after Sunday’s vote.
“Governing is never an end in itself,” said deputy party chief Stegner. “The SPD is not a party devoted to being in power, it’s a party standing up for its ideas. This is what differentiates us from the conservatives. They are willing to take anything, as long as they can govern.”
Four years ago, grassroots members expressed similar concerns about a grand coalition, stressing that a previous alliance with Merkel had led the SPD to its worst election result in history in 2009.
Eventually, the Social Democrats held an unprecedented postal ballot on the issue, which was widely seen as a referendum on the fate of then-party leader Sigmar Gabriel and his leadership team.
The party ended up voting overwhelmingly in favor of another grand coalition, with the support of more than 75 percent of those who took part. Gabriel spent the following four years as German vice chancellor, economy minister and then foreign minister in Merkel’s government.


No need to wait for Brexit: When it comes to U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May’s speech in Italy on Friday, the British government is seemingly already going its own way.
In a striking departure from the customary protocol surrounding a visit by a head of government, May has no official host in Florence, where she will give a speech that the prime minister’s office has billed as a milestone in the Brexit process.
The unusual arrangements around the speech only serve to highlight the oddness of the event itself — a head of government giving a major speech in a foreign country outside of any international forum and without the high-level involvement of the host country’s government.
A senior official in the Florence city administration said although the British government had been in touch with the mayor’s office, they did not follow usual diplomatic norms and had not included city officials in setting up the logistics of the venue.
They also complained they have been provided with little information. “We do not know anything,” said the Florence official. “We are kept in the dark, it is a very abnormal situation.”
“The U.K. government is handling everything in absolute top secret,” the official said. “We do not even know who will attend. So far, the only confirmed guest we are aware of is the mayor of Florence.”
An official at No. 10 Downing Street said they had worked with the local authorities to set up the speech. “Our events people got in touch with the mayor’s office there and this was a suggestion worked up jointly.”
The U.K. has booked the Santa Maria Novella, a church and cloisters dating to 1340. The site served as the venue for the Council of Florence, convened in 1439 to bring about the union of the Greek and Latin churches, and more recently was a headquarters for the military police.
Opera per Santa Maria Novella tweeted on Thursday that it had been officially chosen to host May’s speech. However, the tweet was later deleted.
Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni, who met May on Wednesday in New York, will not attend the event but will instead send Sandro Gozi, the country’s EU affairs minister, to hear May speak.
Gentiloni’s decision to steer clear of May’s speech was intended to squash any suggestion that Rome might be engaged in bilateral discussions with London, a second Italian government official said.
“There will be no bilateral between May and Gentiloni,” the official said. “We want to show London that negotiations take place in Brussels and only there.”
And in a further show of Italian loyalty to Brussels, Gentiloni met Thursday with the EU’s chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, in Rome. While in town, Barnier met other Italian officials, including MPs and former President Giorgio Napolitano. He will not attend May’s Florence speech either.
The official added that the decision to host the speech in Florence had been rushed, putting significant pressure on the British Embassy in Rome. The Italian government was notified only last week about May’s intention to hold the event in Tuscany, the official said.
Tom McTague contributed reporting.


BERLIN — As Germany’s election campaign enters its final hours, Berlin’s political establishment has become unnerved by what looks like a last-minute surge by the far right. Will the “Nazis” — as the Alternative for Germany’s (AfD) opponents call the party’s adherents — take third place? What will that mean for German democracy?
With four parties in a dead heat for third place, each polling in the 8-12 percent range, the race is too close to offer a serious answer.
What we do know is that Angela Merkel’s center-right bloc, comprising her Christian Democrats and the Bavarian Christian Social Union, will likely take first place by a wide margin. In recent weeks, they’ve scored between 36 and 38 percent in the polls. The Social Democrats, Merkel’s current partners in a “grand coalition,” are projected to finish second, somewhere in the low 20 percent range.
Putting aside German soul-searching about the rise of the AfD, the big question after results come in Sunday night will be what kind of coalition will emerge. Relying on the poll math, we’ve handicapped the possible permutations below in our coalition calculus, gauging the likelihood of each outcome. We did not include coalitions that party leaders have explicitly ruled out even if the votes are there, such as any combination involving the AfD.
* * *
Pro — Most Germans are satisfied with their lives at the moment. Unemployment is low, wages are rising (albeit slowly), the economic outlook is stable. There are problems, of course, from shoddy infrastructure to the challenge of absorbing refugees, but overall, things are pretty good. So why change?
For the chancellor, often caricatured as a closet socialist, the grand coalition is the easiest path forward. Merkel is a creature of habit. She vacations in the same Tyrolean village every summer, for example, in the same hotel before absorbing her annual dose of Wagner at the Bayreuth festival. She prizes predictability. At the end of the day, the other coalition options would be too complicated and disruptive. The Social Democrats will play hard to get but ultimately agree. For a risk-averse chancellor of a country that prizes stability, the grand coalition is the obvious answer.
Contra — The grand coalition is slowly strangling the life out of German democracy by making the main political blocs indistinguishable. If the SPD wants to survive as a viable political force, it needs to go into opposition, where it can lead the charge against Merkel & Co. Remaining in the grand coalition means leaving the field to the likes of the AfD and will only further strengthen the political fringes. The only way to breathe new life into Germany’s stuffy political culture and avert future disaster is to end the grand coalition.
Likelihood: High
Pro – A center-right coalition (sometimes nicknamed after a toy duck that’s black and yellow — the party colors of the of CDU/CSU and the Free Democrats) has long been the preferred option for Merkel’s Christian Democrats. The parties have a deep history of collaboration and share the most ideological overlap when it comes to key policy issues, even if the FDP has steered a course somewhat to the right of Merkel on Europe and refugees. This alliance is Germany’s best chance for pushing through further economic reforms. Though the economy has performed well in recent years, many economists warn that Germany is running on the fumes of the labor market overhaul introduced by Merkel’s predecessor, Gerhard Schröder, more than a decade ago. Bold moves could be necessary to ensure Europe’s biggest economy stays on track, and a center-right coalition may be the only hope for that outcome.
Contra – Merkel doesn’t have the appetite for the kind of tax cuts and other overhauls the FDP is demanding. The party’s resistance to eurozone integration will only complicate relations with France and other partners at a time when Berlin needs to show a willingness to compromise and pull Europe together. And while Merkel’s party likes to govern with the FDP, her own experience with the liberals has been mixed. Her coalition with the FDP from 2009-2013 was a rocky one, marked by frequent conflict. Christian Lindner, the FDP’s ambitious young leader, is too much of a showman for the chancellor’s liking. Even if there are enough votes for this coalition, it’s likely to only have a razor-thin majority, which could leave Merkel hostage to a handful of FDP renegades on close votes.
Likelihood: Moderate
Pro — This coalition (so named because the colors of the CDU/CSU, FDP and Greens match those of Jamaican flag) would break new political ground by combining traditional conservatism with liberal principals and an ecological worldview. An experiment, to be sure — but these modern times demand new approaches and courage to collaborate across the old ideological lines. At a time when nationalist tendencies are taking hold of other corners of the west, Germany could present a stark alternative with an outward-looking, liberal face.
Contra — The parties are simply too far apart on key issues, from refugees to the future of the EU to the environment, to make such a coalition work. As the moniker suggests, Jamaica is little more than a fantasy, ginned up by Berlin’s latte-sipping Bobo class, whose daily reality couldn’t be further removed from those of the common man or woman.
Likelihood: Low
If the parties fail to agree on a coalition, Germany’s constitution allows for the formation of a minority government, which would attempt to secure majorities in parliament for legislation on an ad hoc basis.
Pro — It might be Merkel’s only choice, if the SPD refuses to continue a partnership in which its share of the vote has plummeted and other options don’t pan out — because the votes aren’t there, or the FDP drives too hard a bargain, for example.
Contra – A minority government would be unstable and likely short-lived. Germans like stability and this isn’t an outcome anyone is looking for. Merkel knows this and is more likely to push for new elections — and an opportunity to secure an absolute majority — than to put her fortunes at the mercy of a minority government.
Likelihood: Highly unlikely


The EU’s long-term budget plan is a hostage in the Brexit negotiations.
Drafting of the financial plan is already five months behind schedule, and the bloc’s budget-makers are virtually paralyzed by uncertainty over how big a hole will be left by Britain’s departure, and when the shortfall — estimated at €9 billion or more per year — will start to hit.
Even tougher for Brussels is that the long-term budget problem won’t be solved by the so-called single financial settlement that Britain might pay on exit from the EU, which U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May is expected to address in her speech in Florence on Friday.
The EU27 are due to begin a fiendishly complex and politically combustible set of negotiations about the bloc’s roughly €1 trillion, seven-year fiscal blueprint, formally called the multiannual financial framework (MFF). But those discussions are difficult, if not impossible, without clarity about what relationship the U.K. might have with the EU after its formal departure.
“Nothing substantial will be negotiated before the Brits are out,” a senior EU official familiar with budget talks said. “How can you actually discuss such sensitive topics if you do not know what can happen to programs and spending we already committed ourselves to do?”
As the clock speeds toward the March 29, 2019 deadline for reaching a withdrawal agreement, Britain is often described as the side under greater time pressure, with its citizens and businesses said to be at risk of going over a “cliff’s edge” by withdrawing without a legal safety net.
But the EU’s inability to draw up the budget plan explains why the EU27 leaders have grown increasingly angry and agitated over the slow pace of the Brexit negotiations. And it suggests that the U.K. may have stronger cards than it even realizes in trying to shift the sequence of the talks.
In the short-term, EU officials have been panicked over whether the U.K. will live up to the commitments in the current MFF, which runs to 2020. The financial offer that May is expected to propose in Florence would barely keep the current plan on track.
But that still leaves the EU in a long-term bind, facing the prospect of drastic spending cuts or sharp increases in contributions by member countries.
“How does the EU cope with losing a substantial net contributor?” said John Springford, the director of research of the Centre for European Reform, a London-based think tank. “You have to try to find money either from net contributors who aren’t necessarily going to be too keen on that, or from net recipients who are going to receive less money. Obviously, this is going to be nightmarish.”
It is a grim choice no one in Brussels is yet prepared to make, even though the EU’s new deadline for a draft MFF is May 2018. It also explains why EU leaders were so hopeful the U.K. would opt to remain in the EU’s market — and make contributions to the EU budget — following a model like Norway or Switzerland. The U.K. so far has rejected those paths, but that hasn’t stopped some in Brussels from wishful thinking.
“Britain’s strongest card in the negotiations has always been its sizeable contribution to the EU budget,” Springford wrote in a paper published this week.
Despite that leverage, though, Springford concluded that the EU was still in a stronger negotiating position because the U.K. stands to suffer greater financial pain through an economic hit in the event that the two sides fail to reach a withdrawal agreement.
In an interview, he also said the time needed for the U.K. to make arrangements for its post-Brexit future, including new customs and immigration protocols, meant that a transition period could well impact the EU’s next financial plan.
“Is this all going to spill over into the next MFF? Quite possibly,” he said.
Fiscal experts note that the hole that will be left in the EU’s budget by Britain’s departure is relatively small in macroeconomic terms — roughly 0.1 percent of GDP per member country. But the need for cuts or to demand more contributions would be politically painful.
One EU diplomat said that EU negotiators would closely watch May’s speech on Friday for how specific she is on the money and would be waiting to see whatever she proposes formally laid down on the negotiating table in the next round of Brexit talks, which start Monday.
“Those commitments have to be confirmed concretely in negotiating positions,” the diplomat said, adding that the EU side was more interested in reaching agreement on a formula for calculating the U.K.’s obligations than agreeing to a fixed amount, which might end up underestimating the U.K.’s obligations. “Discussing figures before a methodology does not make a lot of sense,” the diplomat said.
European Commission officials acknowledge that they have few good choices at the moment, and tough decisions lie ahead.
“Can Europe deliver on its existing policies and new priorities with a shrinking budget?” a Commission official said. “If not, where should cuts be made and ambitions scaled back? Or should the gap be bridged, either via increasing contributions from the 27 member states, alternative sources of revenue or a combination of the two?”
Transition payments by the U.K. for continued access to the EU’s single market beyond 2020 would forestall the looming cash crunch, but it’s not clear London is willing to make them. Some hard-line Brexiteers, including the U.K. foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, are adamant that contributions to the EU budget must end.
“We would not expect to pay for access to their markets any more than they would expect to pay for access to ours,” Johnson wrote this week in an op-ed in the Telegraph.
However, aides close to Johnson made clear over the weekend that he accepts the idea of continuing payments to the EU during a transition period.
Senior Commission officials express confidence that the draft of the MFF will be ready by next May, and note that they have already published a reflection paper laying out options for the bloc’s future finances.
Separately, a commission chaired by former Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti issued a detailed report earlier this year calling for a broad overhaul of the EU’s budget and finances, including the development of new streams of revenue.
The need for clarity on what if anything the U.K. might be willing to pay beyond 2020 could quickly turn the tables in the Brexit talks, making EU officials newly anxious to discuss the post-Brexit relationship with London that until now they have said should be off-limits until divorce terms are settled.
Getting that clarity could prove excruciatingly difficult, but not everyone agrees that the EU has to wait. Some member countries want to press ahead now with making cuts and reforming the whole budget system.
For the moment, Günther Oettinger, the budget commissioner, is playing for time, having pushed back the deadline for the draft MFF by five months.
At the same time, Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker has seemed to be fighting gravity, insisting as he did in his recent State of the Union speech that he wants to see new spending in the EU budget — despite Britain’s withdrawal.
Two officials familiar with budget issues told POLITICO the Commission so far is targeting its efforts on boosting the EU’s so-called own resources revenue — funds that come from customs fees, a portion of value-added tax, and regulatory fees and penalties — rather than on demanding heftier contributions from national capitals.
Isabelle Thomas, a center-left French MEP who is one of the Parliament’s lead negotiators in budget talks, said the bloc’s financial planners should push ahead without worrying too much about the U.K.
“The next MFF will be on EU’s future, and the Brits will be already out,” Thomas said. “Let’s not scare ourselves.”


LONDON — How much do the British people really know what the government intends to negotiate on its behalf?
In the frenzy of rolling Brexit commentary that assails us every hour, it is easy to forget that for six months after the vote, the British government had no straightforward answer to the question: Will the U.K. stay in the single market?
I know because I had to write something in place of an answer.
You can legitimately argue that our prolonged vagueness gave us time to test Brussels’ flexibility on single market terms and time to ensure cabinet consensus.
But that time also came at a high cost to the U.K.’s credibility — in the eyes of EU elites at the negotiating table, with elements of the media and with the British public.
So far, the government has largely declined to explain to the country the choices it must make in agreeing its withdrawal from — and future relationship with — the bloc. It has communicated much of its vision through repetition of tropes and slogans that obscured, rather than revealed, meaning.
Theresa May’s speech in Florence — an “update on negotiations” according to my former Downing Street colleagues — is an overdue opportunity to communicate clearly on the government’s strategy.
I was a civil servant and, like the prime minister herself, worked both sides of the Brexit street in good faith. Until last month, I led on Brexit communications inside Downing Street. Before the referendum, I did precisely the same job from an obverse position: arguing for the U.K. to remain inside the EU. (Inside a reformed EU, as we insisted at the time — pointlessly, as it turned out.)
I hope she has learned the same lesson I did. Namely, the more the U.K. can communicate frankly with its citizens and its negotiating partners about the reality of the trade-offs it faces, the better.
Not only that, explaining it will help the U.K. secure a deal that has the consent of its people.
The notion that Whitehall can’t cope is false — capable people are getting on with the task at hand.
But the task at hand is on a scale that bears no modern comparison in a democracy: The U.K. has decided to upend its economic and geopolitical model for a largely undetermined course. Given the size of this upheaval, there is a basic civic imperative to explain to people what it will mean.
 To the prime minister’s credit, her Lancaster House speech in January was in part an exercise in explanation.
The result of the referendum, she argued, precluded membership of the single market and the treaty obligations that go alongside it. This was a subjective interpretation of the result, but it was accompanied with some justification: abiding by the so-called “four freedoms,” with the European Court of Justice as an arbiter, she said, was simply incompatible with the U.K. meaningfully extricating itself from the EU.
Economically inadvisable as many think leaving the single market is, senior European leaders nevertheless welcome the clarity of the position. And those of us paid to elaborate and defend the government’s position at least had a point of substance to argue about.
Ministers have since set out negotiating objectives on other issues, but only vaguely indicated how these will be traded off against one another. Papers have been published, but these have mostly avoided giving a clear hierarchy of needs.
The recent position paper on customs, for example, lists strategic priorities: frictionless trade with the EU; avoiding a hard border in Ireland; and having an independent trade policy.
These goals are not all achievable — or more precisely, they are not all completely achievable. The U.K. will have either to generously interpret their meaning (not unusual for a government) or decide which objectives are more important than others.
The same is true of the government’s oft-repeated desire to avoid “a return to the borders of the past” in Ireland. It started as an elegant way of encapsulating concern but its repetition led to accusations that we did not understand or care enough to actually name the problem: Which borders of the past? Customs posts, immigration checks or security checkpoints?
The government is very slowly starting to acknowledge these trade-offs. And the limited evidence is that the public can handle it.
The position paper on Ireland says the U.K. wants to maintain the Common Travel Area “without compromising in any way Ireland’s ability to honor its obligations as an EU member state, including in relation to free movement for EEA nationals in Ireland.”
This is a trade-off. The government is telling us that preserving the ability of people to move freely between Northern Ireland and the Republic is more important than taking back complete control of the U.K.’s borders.
The Sun — not known to idealize freedom of movement or Irish nationalism — reported that the “Craic Door” of an open Irish border would allow illegal migrants into Britain. But it also acknowledged that it was designed to solve a “dilemma” and noted the position was welcomed by Irish politicians like Foreign Minister Simon Coveney.
Hordes of disillusioned Brexit activists have yet to take to the streets in protest over the Craic Door. They may yet do so, but if they do the government can plausibly defend the policy and explain why it exists: How and why it made a choice.
Whatever your view of last year’s campaign, U.K. voters made a choice. That vote now necessitates a series of further choices and trade-offs. At the same time, those who think the result of the referendum should be entirely reversed will have to explain how and why they want to prioritize economic stability over democratic purity.
But those people are not in power. For now, it is for the government to set aside platitudes and explain clearly to the public the choices, and compromises, it wishes to make on their behalf.
Matthew O’Toole is the former chief press officer for Brexit in No. 10 Downing Street.


To listen to the podcast now, click on the player below or click here to get it on iTunes.

We’ve just released episode 14 of POLITICO’s EU Confidential podcast, in which Ryan Heath interviews Toni Cowan-Brown, a vice president at NationBuilder, the software company that has powered election campaigns for Emmanuel Macron’s party, Theresa May, Bernie Sanders and even Belgian communists. Also this week: POLITICO’s Florian Eder looks ahead to the German election.
Smashing political barriers: Cowan-Brown explains how political software is dramatically lowering the money and time it takes to launch movements and campaigns.
Analog Germany: But the company is not working on the German election: because political parties wanted all the data stored in Germany. We discuss whether that attitude is likely to change.
About that election: POLITICO managing editor Florian Eder previews Sunday’s parliamentary vote — and discusses whom Brussels would like to see in the next government.
Boris Johnson’s Brexit vision — fact or fantasy? Our Brussels brains trust debates what Britain’s foreign secretary is up to with his recent Brexit opus and fact-checks some of his statements.
The court with optional judgments: The brains trust also talks about why the European Court of Human Rights has issued 10,000 judgments that have not been implemented by its member countries.
Dear POLITICO discusses “Brussels or Bust”: We hear from a listener who works at a pan-EU organization, and whose CEO has decided they don’t need to live in Brussels. Is that decision hurting their credibility? Lina Aburous and Ailbhe Finn weight the pros and cons.


Pierre Briançon et Nicholas Vinocur parlent du départ de Florian Philippot, du mépris d’Emmanuel Macron.



U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May again sought to convince President Donald Trump of the damage that an ongoing case between U.S. aircraft manufacturer Boeing and its Canadian rival Bombardier could bring to Northern Ireland, according to a readout of their meeting released Thursday.
“The prime minister reiterated to the president the importance of Bombardier to the economy of Northern Ireland and the importance of protecting the jobs the company provides,” May’s office said of the meeting, which was held Wednesday on the sidelines of the U.N. General Assembly.
Trump also repeated his desire for a strong trading relationship with the U.K., including through a trade deal struck after Britain completes its exit from the European Union, the readout said. May responded that “Britain will continue to be a true champion of global free trade,” according to the statement.
A White House readout of the same meeting, released this morning, did not mention trade at all.


To listen to the podcast now, click on the player below or click here to get it on iTunes.

We’ve just released episode 13 of POLITICO’s EU Confidential podcast, in which Ryan Heath interviews Tomáš Valášek, the former Slovak ambassador to NATO who now heads the Carnegie Europe think tank.
As Russia begins its Zapad war game, the West should be worried about Moscow “downright lying about the size and the type” of military exercises it holds, Valášek says, while explaining that fears Moscow will use the exercise as a springboard to attack or invade a neighbor are overblown.
EU’s defense: Valášek says the EU has finally upped its defense cooperation game in a meaningful way, and that Jean-Claude Juncker’s olive branches to Eastern Europe in his State of the European Union speech are an essential gesture if the EU27 is to stay united through Brexit negotiations and planning for the next long-term EU budget.
State of the European Union unpacked: Also on the podcast this week, Christian Oliver, POLITICO’s European trade editor, guides us through Juncker’s address. We discuss the speech’s many priorities, traps and fanciful power grabs.
‘EU WTF’ talks Catalonia: Regular panelists Ailbhe Finn and Lina Aburous discuss the political hot potato of the government of Catalonia’s attempt to hold a referendum on independence from Spain.
Dear POLITICO: In our advice session, we hear from a listener who says she has a bullying boss in the Europe office of a large company.


MADRID — Faced with the dilemma of being labeled a dictator or being ridiculed for inaction, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has chosen the former approach to the outlawed Catalan independence referendum planned for October 1.
While the conservative Spanish leader has the law on his side — the referendum has no legal backing since all measures taken by the pro-independence Catalan government and legislature have been suspended by the Constitutional Court — he risks further inflaming nationalist sentiment in Catalonia and moving the political discussion from the national and regional debating chambers onto the streets.
Televised images on Wednesday of armed Civil Guards raiding offices of the Catalan regional government and other facilities linked to the referendum, arresting more than a dozen officials and confiscating nearly 10 million ballot papers, were bound to spark protests in an independence movement that has so far been largely peaceful. On Thursday, the Constitutional Court imposed daily fines of up to €12,000 on members of the Catalan electoral board.
Separatist leaders and grassroots organizations quickly called on Catalans to take to the streets to defend their region’s institutions and, after demonstrations went late into the night across the region, the protesters dug in on Thursday for a longer series of protests against the Spanish authorities. Thousands of protesters gathered around the courts in Barcelona that are handling the cases against Catalan officials, some of whom were still being held on Thursday.
The differences between Rajoy and Catalan regional President Carles Puigdemont now seem to be insurmountable.
“The referendum can’t be held anymore. It was never legal or legitimate … now it’s just an impossible fantasy,” the prime minister said Wednesday. He urged Catalan separatist leaders to abandon their plans, warning: “Give up on this escalation of radicalism and disobedience. You’re still on time to prevent worse evils.”
Puigdemont’s response to the arrests was equally defiant. On October 1, he said, “we will leave home, we will take a ballot and we will use it.”
The regional leader said Spain had “de facto suspended the self-government of Catalonia and has applied a de facto state of emergency” and denounced the “totalitarian and undemocratic attitude of the Spanish state.”
Both the Spanish and the Catalan governments are navigating uncharted waters, amid a dangerous dynamic where they seem to be reacting to their opponents’ actions rather than following a precise plan of action.
The ultimate milestone will be whether Puigdemont declares unilateral independence of Catalonia after the October 1 vote, if it goes ahead and if the secessionists win, or even if they can’t carry out the vote — a scenario that various Spanish officials described as possible but not likely. Such a move would likely force Rajoy to take harsher measures and further increase the volatility of the situation.
Spanish officials, who have multiplied their media campaign efforts in the past few days, seem to be aware that the crackdown risks mobilizing support for independence in Catalonia. In regional elections in 2015, pro-independence forces obtained 48 percent of the vote, though recent opinion polls show a slight decline in support.
However, the Spanish government appears willing to take that risk.
Rajoy’s determination to avoid a referendum has the backing at national level not just of his Popular Party but also the main opposition Socialists and the liberal Ciudadanos. Together, that adds up to nearly three-quarters of the Spanish Congress.
Among the wider Spanish public, there is little appetite for a referendum. In the latest survey by the public Center for Sociological Research, barely 10 percent of those polled backed the idea of the region being allowed to secede, which would require changes to the constitution.
The far-left protest movement Podemos and its allies in Catalonia, led by Barcelona’s Mayor Ada Colau, have denounced the Spanish state’s “repression” of Catalan authorities and advocated for a plebiscite on self-determination as the only way out of the crisis. The position could tip the scales in the separatists’ favor in Catalonia.
Yet Spanish officials hope that what they describe as the radicalization of the independence movement will alienate moderate, middle-class people in Catalonia. “This started as a bourgeois revolution and is turning into a Bolshevik revolution,” said an official in the Popular Party leadership, arguing that many people in the wealthy region have much to lose if things get out of control.
Madrid began to mine that vein of arguments this week, with Rajoy saying Wednesday he was open to dialogue if the separatists moderate their position and could even be willing to discuss the “financing” of the region. Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told reporters earlier this week that Catalan economic output would suffer a 30 percent collapse if independence was achieved.
The current crisis has its roots in the co-financing arrangements between Madrid and Barcelona. In 2012, Puigdemont’s predecessor Artur Mas was facing a scenario of economic collapse, social unrest and a political landscape under stress (as was Rajoy). He demanded that Madrid allocate more funds to the region — and Madrid’s refusal eventually led Mas to endorse the campaign for independence.
“Instead of fighting the [economic] crisis and working towards economic growth and employment, as was their obligation, they preferred to pin the blame for everything on the others,” Rajoy said at a party meeting in Barcelona last week.
However, even some of those who are fiercely opposed to Catalan independence criticize Rajoy’s handling of the crisis, his inability to offer the Catalans an appealing alternative, and his refusal to take the initiative in negotiations. Rajoy’s Popular Party was instrumental in limiting the Catalans’ autonomy in their new statute in 2006: The PP made a legal appeal to the Constitutional Court to strike down elements of the autonomy statute which, in its view, went too far.
In private talks, members of Rajoy’s Cabinet repeatedly evoke the example of the Basque Country, where nationalist parties backing the right of self-determination often gathered the support of more than half of the people and calls for independence were eventually defeated without the slightest compromise on the part of Madrid.
“Twenty-five years ago, we all thought that the situation in the Basque Country couldn’t be solved,” said a Cabinet member.
Yet this could be a dangerous example to draw lessons from. In the Basque Country, Spain was fighting a terrorist organization which killed more than 800 people during five decades of military struggle. The bloodshed undermined international support for the Basque cause and drove a majority of Spaniards — including Basques opposed to violence — to rally together against the group.
This isn’t the case in Catalonia, where most supporters of secession have advocated for their cause in a strictly peaceful manner. The Catalan government is focusing its efforts on seeking international support. So far Puigdemont has failed to win significant foreign backing for the independence cause but alarm bells are ringing in Madrid over the growing level of international media interest in Catalonia.
On Wednesday, Miquel Iceta, leader of the Catalan Socialists, asked Puigdemont to drop his plans for the referendum and demanded both Madrid and Barcelona “to stop an escalation that brings us all to disaster.”


PARIS — Few people will be watching the outcome of Germany’s election Sunday more closely than Emmanuel Macron.
The French president has staked his credibility on plans to overhaul the eurozone, with its own budget, finance minister and parliament. But to get off the ground, his vision needs German backing.
And while Chancellor Angela Merkel — who has cautiously backed some of Macron’s ideas — is almost certain to be reelected, the composition of her governing coalition will weigh heavily on German attitudes toward the French president’s proposals.
To make sure that France’s vision for Europe factors into German coalition talks, Macron has scheduled a big speech on the bloc’s future for Tuesday — just as party bosses in Berlin will be getting down to business.
In the remaining months of 2017, France anticipates the start of the most direct and frank period of Franco-German dialogue in decades, as competing visions of Europe’s future are laid bare and debated in public.
The best France can hope for is that those talks begin quickly, in a spirit of total honesty, and without some external crisis forcing Berlin and Paris to put the Europe debate on the back burner.
“If you take a step back, this is a rare moment,” Jean Pisani-Ferry, one of the main architects of Macron’s economic platform, told POLITICO. “We have calm on the markets, a favorable economic situation, no immediate political emergencies. This is the right time for each side to say what they think and to spell out what risks they see for the future.”
“What’s important is that we reach creative compromises. We need to move beyond tactical considerations and look toward a common end goal. This is going to require frankness, honesty and depth,” he added.
Here are five things France would like to see emerge after Germany’s election.
The German chancellor has not always been on board with French proposals, especially on Greece and eurozone bonds. But in the past five years, France feels Merkel has embraced many French-inspired proposals that were not obvious wins for her conservative base (Europe’s banking union, an anti-dumping initiative, ECB monetary policy, to name a few).
The French interest is that Merkel is reelected with a big score for her Christian Democrats, so she has a clear mandate to lead Germany into the next phase of EU history. “It will be up to Merkel. At the end of the day, she decides, and she is very familiar with French views on Europe,” said a high-ranking French official who asked not to be named. “In a way, the stronger she is, the better.”
Of all Merkel’s potential coalition partners, the Free Democrats (FDP), also known as the liberals, are most blatantly opposed to Macron’s ideas for Europe. In a June interview with POLITICO, FDP chief Christian Lindner said that Macron’s vision amounted to a “Soviet Union-style system in which at some point the systematic losers will turn against the European Union and the euro.”
On the sidelines of a campaign event in Hanover last week, Lindner struck a similar note. He said his party’s red line on European policy was a refusal to accept a common budget for the eurozone funded by taxes that currently go into national budgets, as mooted by Macron.
“We don’t begrudge Mr. Macron and all European partners their success,” Lindner told POLITICO. “But [a eurozone budget] would be a sort of permanent fiscal equalization scheme and a transfer union that would endanger the future of Europe.”
The FDP stands a chance of joining Merkel in government as her sole coalition partner or as part of a three-way alliance with the Greens. Having them there in any form is bad for Macron. “If the FDP is in the coalition, there is going to be a learning curve,” said the French official. “It will be more complicated on defense, at the least.”
Pisani-Ferry, a professor of political economics, said: “The FDP has taken hard positions on a number of subjects. When you look at them, there are few manifestations of joy at Macron’s proposals. That’s not going to make things easier. We need to say things clearly, and early.”
Regardless of which parties end up in Merkel’s coalition, France hopes a government is formed quickly. Paris wants to start talking about the EU with a stable German government as soon as possible. “We have three months in which to move on these issues,” said the French official. “We need to move ahead fast.” Early next year, Macron wants to start holding “democratic conventions” in EU nations with the aim of building pro-EU sentiment. Not having a common position with Berlin because of lengthy coalition talks would muddy his message.
French officials are too diplomatic to ever mention the German finance minister by name. But they do note opposition in his government to many of Macron’s proposals — opposition that is most commonly voiced by Schäuble. He is against a eurozone finance minister or budget, noting that such changes would require a treaty change, and wants instead to upgrade the power of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM). Macron has agreed with this suggestion, but declared on a visit to Greece last month that a stronger ESM was not sufficient to deal with eurozone imbalances. When a new German government is in place, it remains to be seen whether Schäuble remains in post. But he is popular with German conservatives, and chances are he will remain. The best France may be able to hope for is that his reservations about many aspects of Macron’s vision do not overwhelm talks.
No one in Paris is under any illusion that agreeing with Berlin on the future shape of the EU is going to be easy. In fact, it’s now common to say the talks are going to be tough, that there will be hard knots of disagreement, and that everything may not be achieved. What France wants to avoid is not having a serious debate because some major unforeseen event forces the bloc back into the crisis-management mode of the past decade. “There is an opportunity to be seized,” said Pisani-Ferry.


WASHINGTON — National security adviser H.R. McMaster has not been contacted by the office of special prosecutor Robert Mueller regarding the ongoing investigation into Russia’s interference into last year’s presidential election, McMaster told NBC’s “Today” show Thursday morning.
The national security adviser was hesitant to even discuss Mueller’s probe, initially answering a question on whether he or a representative of his had been contacted by the special counsel’s office by telling NBC anchor Savannah Guthrie that “this is really not my area of responsibility” and then pivoting quickly to upcoming meetings between President Donald Trump and world leaders scheduled for Thursday.
Guthrie and her co-anchor, Matt Lauer, quickly interjected with the latter asking McMaster “it’s not your area of responsibility, but have you been asked?” To which McMaster replied, “No, I have not” and “I’m busy with other things.”
Multiple media outlets including The New York Times and The Washington Post have reported that Mueller’s team has sought materials related to a meeting last May between Trump and two high-level Russian diplomats, a meeting at which Trump reportedly revealed classified information and at which McMaster was in attendance.
The national security adviser was somewhat more evasive when asked if his lawyer or any other representative had been contacted by Mueller’s office, repeating again that he had not personally been contacted. “I’ve been busy with other things and have not been contacted,” he said.


PARIS — Marine Le Pen’s National Front has a serious crack in its façade.
On Thursday, the party’s vice president and director of strategy, Florian Philippot, announced that he was leaving the far-right group he helped to transform into one of the most powerful forces in French politics.
His departure comes six months after leader Marine Le Pen brought the party closer to power than ever before, only to see it descend into internal squabbling after her defeat at the hands of Emmanuel Macron.
Philippot, a graduate of the elite ENA school of public administration, who was the architect of the National Front’s anti-euro platform, left with a group of like-minded allies. Their embrace of a statist, socially left-wing and anti-EU platform was increasingly out of touch with the party’s base in the run-up to the election, and was in open conflict with it afterward.
Philippot’s departure highlights the rejection by senior party officials, notably MP Gilbert Collard, of his calls to leave the eurozone, which was blamed for Le Pen’s low score against Macron. The move also signals a likely change in the party’s strategic line, with many members pushing for a classical right-wing agenda focused on immigration control, defense of French cultural identity, and law and order.
But while strategic questions did factor into Thursday’s move, Philippot’s departure ultimately boiled down to more personal considerations. In the wake of Le Pen’s defeat, he was increasingly defiant of the party leader, taking advantage of the weakened position to consolidate his own political standing.
Days after the election, Philippot formed a “think tank” inside the party named “Les Patriotes” (The Patriots) that was effectively a competing party. His refusal to quit, or to clearly signal his loyalty to the Front, led to Le Pen’s decision late Wednesday to strip him of all official duties.
“They told me that I was the vice president of nothing,” Philippot told France 2. “I don’t like ridicule, and I have never liked doing nothing, so of course I am leaving the National Front.”
Philippot declined to say whether he would create an official party or field candidates against Le Pen in upcoming elections. But the Patriots group appears ready to launch, with its own graphic identity and political platform laid out.
Questions remain over how Philippot will vote in the European Parliament, where he has held a seat since 2014. His political group faces calls to reimburse hundreds of thousands of euros in parliamentary funds over alleged misuse of accredited assistants.
During the summer, party officials said that Philippot was less involved in day-to-day affairs after the defeat. His retreat began even earlier, amid intense jockeying for position and strategic influence before the election that caused him to take a step back. Le Pen came to rely on other senior officials for advice and guidance ahead of the election.
But she will not find it easy to replace the workaholic Philippot who fed her with notes and strategic advice throughout his tenure. She is heading into a party congress early next year in her most fragile position since taking over leadership of the Front from her father in 2011, with the only comfort being that there are no clear contenders for her seat.


European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker on Thursday criticized “the state of ignorance” of some EU leaders who reacted with surprise to his State of the Union speech last week, where he proposed institutional changes that he said were “not revolutionary.”
Juncker’s proposals last week in Strasbourg included merging the presidencies of the Commission and the Council and creating a “euro-accession instrument” with technical and financial assistance for countries that have not yet adopted the euro.
Some EU leaders, including Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte and his Danish counterpart, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, responded almost immediately that such reforms were not needed.
Speaking to representatives of employers and workers in the European Economic and Social Committee, Juncker said much of what he had proposed was already provided for in the Lisbon Treaty and he was “very surprised” to see such shocked reactions from people including “heads of state [and] of government.”
“Reminding them of the rules in the treaty and creating surprise by doing so shows the state of ignorance of many of those who pretend they can lead Europe in all circumstances,” Juncker said.


President Donald Trump’s approval rating is on the upswing in a new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released Thursday, matching a trend from other polls that also show the president’s poll numbers inching upward.
Forty-three percent of those polled by NBC and the Journal said they either strongly or somewhat approve of the president’s job performance, a 3 percentage point increase from the poll’s previous iteration, conducted in mid-August. Fifty-two percent said they either strongly or somewhat disapprove of Trump’s job performance, down 3 points from the August poll.
The new poll is in line with others that have emerged in recent weeks, which show that Trump’s approval ratings remain at historic lows for a president in his first year in office but are improving from their low-water mark in August. The Real Clear Politics polling average of Trump’s approval rating currently sits at 40.6 percent, just over 3 points better than his low point in mid-August.
Respondents to the NBC/Journal poll gave Trump his best marks on the short-term deal he struck with Democratic leaders to fund the government and raise the debt ceiling, with 71 percent saying they approve of the move and just 8 percent saying they disapprove.
On other issues, Trump’s performance has been less popular. Forty-one percent said they approved of the president’s handling of the economy, the second highest number Trump received among the issues included in the poll. Just 27 percent said they approve of his handling of healthcare, while 24 percent approved of his handling of the environment and climate change. Twenty-five percent approved of his pardon of controversial Arizona sheriff Joe Arpaio and 20 percent approved of his response to a deadly white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, last month.
Sixty-six percent of those polled said they disapprove of the way Trump uses Twitter to communicate with the American people, the highest disapproval rating of any specific issue in the poll, while just 23 percent said they approve of it.
Asked about the president’s accomplishments since he took office, only 33 percent said Trump had accomplished either “a great deal” or “a fair amount” in his tenure thus far in the White House. Sixty-six percent said Trump has accomplished either “only some” or “very little” in office.
The NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll was conducted from Sept. 14-18, reaching 900 adults via landlines and cell phones. The poll’s margin of error was plus-or-minus 3.3 percent.


DUBLIN — The European Parliament’s Brexit coordinator took an apparent swipe at Boris Johnson on Thursday over his uneasiness at young people wanting to express their identity as Europeans.
In a 4,000-word article for the Daily Telegraph last week that was widely interpreted as the opening salvo of a leadership bid, the U.K. foreign secretary wrote: “I look at so many young people with the 12 stars lipsticked on their faces and I am troubled with the thought that people are beginning to have genuinely split allegiances.”
“And when people say that they feel they have more in common with others in Europe than with people who voted Leave, I want to say: ‘But that is part of the reason why people voted Leave,'” he said.
The remark goes to the heart of the cultural divide in the U.K. over Brexit and provoked a backlash from Remainers.
Without mentioning Johnson by name, Guy Verhofstadt told the chamber of the Irish parliament, the Dáil: “Some British politicians criticize people who want to retain their European identity. You can be English, British and European at the same time. I want to deliver a message of [EU] solidarity with the Irish people.”
The MEP also said it was up to the British to come up with solutions to the problems they were creating for Ireland by leaving the EU and that “Ireland must not pay the price for Brexit.”
“The imposition of the border between Northern Ireland and you is not your fault,” said the former Belgian prime minister. “Northern Ireland should remain part of the customs union … The U.K. will have to come up with solutions.”
The MEP, on a two-day trip speaking to politicians on both sides of the border, stressed EU unity on the Brexit issue. “The European position is the Irish position,” he said.
Verhofstadt told a symposium of three Irish parliamentary committees that he regarded the U.K.’s proposals on the Northern Irish border as unworkable.
“The U.K. position that the border can be solved by new technology is not convincing,” he said, referring to suggestions that hauliers could declare their cargo at a point remote from the border so removing the need for customs checks at the frontier itself.
In response to Verhofstadt’s speech, Irish parliamentarian Michael Healy-Rae, who is chair of the Irish parliamentary committee on European affairs, told the gathering “that [Brexit] is a horrible, horrible problem for Ireland and its people.”


Angela Merkel looks sure to be returned to power, but the identity of her next government is far from clear after Sunday’s German general election.
Below are highlights from POLITICO’s coverage of the election campaign, the candidates, the parties and the issues.
Including how the SPD’s result may determine the shape of the next government.
The election’s most closely contested race, with a role in government as the potential prize.
Life and times of the physicist who was in the sauna when the Berlin Wall came down.
The chancellor’s 12 years at the top in facts, figures and graphics.
After a bright start, the challenger tried to take the fight to Merkel — with little success.
At 75, the finance minister has lost none of his appetite for power but his future is uncertain.
Foreign minister’s revival increases the chances he will play a key post-election role.
The FDP seems ready for partnership with Merkel — but doesn’t want to be a pushover like last time.
Environmentalists may face choice between a deal with a party they detest and four more years in opposition.
Support for Alternative for Germany surged on the back of the 2015 migration crisis.
Sahra Wagenknecht of the far-left Die Linke woos disillusioned Social Democrats.
All mainstream parties have run on pro-European tickets, but the devil’s in the details.
Social Democrats blast chancellor’s plans to boost military budget in line with calls from U.S. president.
A new “Wirtschaftswunder” means the economy played only a minor campaign role, but trouble lies ahead.
Government braces for influx of last-minute false stories, digital hacks or online hate speech.
You can find all of POLITICO’s stories on the election campaign here.


Florian Philippot, once the top aide to French far-right leader Marine Le Pen, announced Thursday he is quitting her party.
The National Front (FN) demoted Philippot late Wednesday from his role heading the party’s strategy and communications, leaving him a vice president without a portfolio, after he refused to relinquish his role as the president of The Patriots, the party’s internal think tank, he told France 2 Thursday.
“They told me that I was the vice president of nothing,” Philippot, who is also a member of European Parliament, said. “I don’t like ridicule, and I have never liked doing nothing, so of course I am leaving the National Front.”
Philippot’s position in the party has been uncertain since Le Pen’s poor showing in the second round of the French presidential election, which she lost to French President Emmanuel Macron. Party apparatchiks concluded Philippot’s push for France to leave the euro scared away voters, and recommended FN double down on anti-immigrant and French cultural identity messages instead.
Philippot said he saw little space for himself in the rebranded party.
“I saw things evolving negatively these past weeks, maybe in the new project I didn’t have a place, so they had to look for pretexts [to remove me],” Philippot said.


Most front pages focused on reports the Spanish Civil Guard conducted a number of raids on Catalan government ministries across Barcelona Wednesday, arresting 14 and leading to open confrontation with government officials and pro-independence activists. While the Catalan regional president called it a “de facto state of emergency” to halt his government’s quest to hold an independence referendum October 1, the anti-secessionist press saw it differently. “The justice system dismantles the organization of the referendum,” was the El País headline.
Referring to the thousands of pro-independence demonstrators who came out in response to the raids, El Mundo led with: “Separatism tries to overwhelm the state after the 1-O [shorthand for the referendum] is neutralized.” ABC wrote: “Democracy reinstated in Catalonia.” Pro-independence paper El Punt Avui posted a black-and-white picture of riot police and protesters with the caption: “State of emergency.” Another pro-independence paper, Ara, featured a picture of the Catalan government’s symbol above an editorial on its front page titled “In defense of our institutions.”




Le Monde reported on U.S. President Donald Trump’s United Nations speech, running an editorial titled: “The American president belittles the U.N.” The paper also continued to cover the earthquake in Mexico and published an interview with U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders. Right-leaning Le Figaro reported on the continuing protests against President Emmanuel Macron’s proposed labor reforms. “CGT, Mélenchon, truckers: Macron faces the street,” was the paper’s headline, referring to one of France’s powerful unions and Macron’s vanquished far-left challenger for the presidency, Jean-Luc Mélenchon, both agitating against the reforms. Left-leaning Libération, which supports the protests, did not publish a print version of its newspaper Thursday at the request of CGT, it announced.



Some in the British press also reported on Catalonia, including the Financial Times and the Guardian. The Telegraph led with “Treasury ‘talking down Brexit,'” while the tabloid Daily Express previewed Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit speech Friday in Florence with the headline: “May’s big push for EU exit: PM lays down law to Brussels.” The Times focused on May’s U.N. speech: “U.N. is failing the world, May tells global leaders.”



Reporting on Catalonia, the left-leaning Süddeutsche Zeitung led with: “Madrid is fueling conflict with Catalans.” Die Welt: “Raids in Catalonia: struggle for independence escalates.” Frankfurter Allgemeine led with the merger of Thyssenkrupp and Tata Steel, and German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel’s criticism of Trump following his speech at the U.N.




Josep Borrell, a former president of the European Parliament who describes himself as “Catalan, Spanish and European,” believes that not enough people in Catalonia want independence to justify changing the constitution to allow a referendum, let alone break up Spain.
And anyway, he told POLITICO, the Catalonian independence movement is built on a myth.
“The story of a single people of Catalonia: It’s not true. It doesn’t exist,” Borrell said in an interview.
The 70-year-old former Socialist cabinet minister was one of a series of Spanish officials to visit Brussels ahead of October 1, when Catalan separatists are determined to go ahead with a referendum in defiance of a ban by the government in Madrid and the Constitutional Court.
“If it was 65 percent wanting independence, it would be a different story,” said Borrell, describing the planned vote as potentially “the biggest European constitutional crisis since the fall of the Berlin Wall. For the first time since then we are talking about changing borders. There could be a domino effect,” he said.
Borrell called on the Spanish government led by Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy to defuse the situation by doing more to solve the practical grievances of Catalans.
“The Spanish state has disappeared from my village in the Pyrenees,” said Borrell. Many tasks of government have shifted down to local and regional level, or been passed up to Brussels. All that bears Madrid’s seal today are “some roads which are in bad shape,” he said.
“If I have a problem with my wife, I send flowers,” Borrell said, suggesting Madrid should offer a fiscal equivalent to the Catalans in order to keep Spain united.
Faced with a dogged publicity drive by the Catalan regional government in Brussels and elsewhere, Spanish officials have attempted to seize back the media narrative in recent weeks, convening a meeting with international journalists in Brussels this week to make their case.
Madrid’s main argument has been that the referendum would violate the Spanish constitution of 1978 and is therefore illegal, justifying its efforts to prevent the referendum from taking place, confiscate ballot boxes and campaign leaflets, and take action against mayors and other Catalan officials suspected of lending their support.
The government has ordered copy shops not to print referendum leaflets, which it describes as illegal, and has launched an investigation into more than 700 Catalan mayors suspected of providing logistical help for the vote. On Wednesday, the Civil Guard arrested 12 people in Barcelona linked to the independence campaign, including an aide to regional Vice President Oriol Junqueras. Madrid has also seized control of Catalonia’s autonomous finances to ensure tax revenue is not used to finance the referendum or pro-independence propaganda.
In response, Catalan regional President Carles Puigdemont accused Madrid of “crossing the red line that separates authoritarian and repressive regimes.”
Borrell believes the most urgent task for the Spanish government is to separate the grievances of the Catalans into two baskets: practical problems it can solve, and “imaginary problems” that it can fight with facts.
“You can improve trains if trains are the problem. But you cannot solve a problem that does not exist. For that you need to engage daily to create a shift [of opinion],” Borrell said.
He acknowledged that “half of Catalonia has become psychologically independent,” but said the region is hugely divided. The countryside is home to much stronger nationalist feelings than Barcelona, while “75 percent of the people whose mother tongue is Catalan support Yes (to independence) and 75 percent of the people with other languages as their mother tongue are against independence.”
Borrell divided independence supporters into two categories: those whose Catalan nationalism is ingrained (around a quarter of the population), and those whose support for independence is conditional — tied to personal and economic circumstances.
He accused Catalan nationalists of stealing the Brexit campaign’s playbook. “It’s the same discourse of stolen money,” he said.
In the 2016 U.K. referendum on EU membership, Leave campaigners suggested the EU effectively stole money from British institutions like the National Health Service. In Catalonia, the argument is that Catalonia pays more than its fair share into the national treasury and should take back direct control.
In the Catalan debate, said Borrell, “the ability to argue between facts has been lost. It’s no longer rational. The story is that Franco equals Spain and Spain equals Franco. That is what the students hear.”
Perhaps Madrid’s strongest argument about the Catalan government’s plans is that the debate lacks an official No campaign. A real referendum would have two sides, according to Borrell.
With tension building ahead of the vote, Borrell worries that “temporary” violence could flare around October 1 and predicted that the role of Catalonia’s autonomous police force, the Mossos d’Esquadra, will be crucial.


When President George H. W. Bush was staring down Saddam Hussein after the Iraq dictator’s invasion of Kuwait in 1990, the former diplomat spoke in grand terms about international order and rule of law.
But Bush also made the conflict personal. In public speeches, he referred to the Iraqi tyrant only by his first name, as “Saddam” — a pointed discourtesy that drew global attention. For good measure, he mispronounced it — “Sad-um” instead of “Sa-dam” — in a way that sounded like the Arabic word for a barefoot beggar.
The ensuing conflict went America’s way: Iraq was quickly ejected from Kuwait in the 1990 Gulf War, a lightning-fast defeat that left the dictator humbled. But in hindsight, some Bush officials consider the way the president had talked about it — particularly his decision to personalize the conflict with man-to-man taunts — to have been a mistake. American troops stopped well before reaching Baghdad, Hussein clung to power, and the result was a clean victory that didn’t quite feel like one.
“All the emphasis on Saddam made it harder for [Bush] to justify ending the war with Saddam still in power,” said Richard Haass, a top Bush White House national security official at the time.
More than 25 years later, Donald Trump has quickly found himself in his own standoff with a blowhard dictator across the world, and has personalized far more than Bush ever did. Twice in the past week, on Twitter Sunday and in his Tuesday address to the United Nations, Trump has dubbed North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un “Rocket Man,” in an apparent reference to a 1972 Elton John ballad that Trump often played at his campaign rallies — an exercise in high-level name-calling with little modern precedent.
Whether any larger strategy lies behind Trump’s mockery is unclear. Trump has long used nicknames to belittle and intimidate opponents, from Atlantic City business rivals to his 2016 challengers — including “Low Energy Jeb” Bush, “Little Marco” Rubio and “Crooked Hillary” Clinton. But experts and former U.S. officials warn that what worked in the Iowa primaries is liable to backfire on the larger and more complicated global stage, especially when it comes to nuclear diplomacy with millions of lives on the line.
For a dictator accustomed to honorifics like “Brilliant Leader” and “Guiding Sun Ray,” the nickname “will be perceived as an embarrassment of the highest order” in North Korea, said Ken Gause, an Asia analyst with the nonprofit research organization CNA.
“The relationship is already so bad that I’m not sure how much worse it could get,” added Joel Wit, a Koreas expert at Columbia University and the Johns Hopkins University’s School for Advanced International Studies. “But if there’s something guaranteed to make it worse, it’s hurling personal insults at their leader.”
Human psychology is an undeniable element of high-stakes international conflict, as any student of the Cuban Missile Crisis can explain, and world leaders can successfully unnerve one another. But the strategy can also backfire. In 1986, President Ronald Reagan branded the Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi “the mad dog of the Middle East,” prompting the African strongman to retort that he would not bend to the “insults” of an “old man.” (Reagan wound up bombing Gaddafi into submission.)
President Barack Obama considered it a mistake to personalize foreign policy, though he couldn’t resist saying in 2013 that Russian President Vladimir Putin’s “slouch” during their meetings made the Russian look like “the bored kid in the back of the classroom.” Putin was reportedly infuriated by the remark, which did nothing to improve faltering U.S.-Russia relations.
And as Bush discovered, it can be hard to close the door on a foreign policy problem once you’ve turned it into a man-to-man fight. With North Korea, a successful diplomatic solution might leave Kim in power—and Trump in much the same position as Bush: as a leader claiming a win even as critics cast him as a guy who couldn’t finish the shoving match he started
It remains unclear whether Trump’s remark is intended to unnerve Kim, whom he has previously both insulted (“a maniac”) and complimented (“a smart cookie”) — or whether it’s just to look tough to his domestic political base. Whatever the motive, there’s little sign it came from — or even ran through — key administration officials crafting North Korea policy.
Trump’s own national security adviser, H.R. McMaster, seemed caught off guard after Trump sent a tweet Sunday morning in which he described talking to South Korea’s leader about an unnamed “Rocket Man.” On an a Sunday interview with ABC News, host George Stephanopoulos asked McMaster, “I assume ‘Rocket Man’ is Kim Jong-un?”
“Well, it’s — it appears to be so,” McMaster said haltingly. “That is where the rockets and missiles are coming from, is North Korea.”
Since then, Trump officials have embraced the moniker more enthusiastically — even if they offer few particulars about how it aids America’s strategic position. A “President Trump original,” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Wednesday. “As you know, he’s a master in branding.”
“Look, this is a way of, like, you know, getting people to talk about him,” Trump’s United Nations Ambassador, Nikki Haley, told ABC Wednesday.
A National Security Council spokesman did not respond when asked how Trump’s advisers feel about the nickname, and what effect Trump hopes it will have. Several Asia analysts said there would be no confusion about the name’s hostile intent among North Korea’s leaders. The insular county’s population is a different story. Even the few North Koreans familiar with Elton John wouldn’t likely have heard about Trump’s crack: The nation’s state media has yet to report the line, according to Adam Cathcart, an Asia historian at the University of Leeds.
Cathcart added that the country’s propaganda machine might even turn the line to Kim’s advantage, at least domestically, in a nation whose missile program is a point of pride.
“Insults like that generally don’t translate well,” he said, “and if anything the [North Korean] state media has made a habit of rephrasing things in a way that they want their people to hear them. So we might ultimately see some reference to Trump’s publicly stated fear of the ‘intercontinental missile capability advancing at extreme speed’ or something along those lines.”
Kim and his inner circle will have a clearer understanding of Trump’s intended meaning. But experts doubt that a North Korean leader whose family has defied the West for decades under threat of carpet bombing will be rattled by a reference to a 1970s pop hit. Some even worry that by focusing on Kim personally — something President Barack Obama avoided doing— Trump could elevate the North Korean leader’s stature and inflate his ego.
This kind of bluster will not only not deter North Korea, but Kim will call Trump’s bluff and conduct more weapons tests,” said Sung-Yoon Lee, a North Korea specialist at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.
Moreover, Lee added, name-calling is typically the hallmark of the North Korean regime itself. Pyongyang’s blustery propaganda machine has branded George W. Bush “human scum,” Barack Obama a “wicked black monkey,” and Trump himself “a psychopath.”
“For the U.S. to descend to North Korea’s level is demeaning,” Lee said.


NEW YORK — The rest of the world’s power set spent the week here preoccupied with North Korea’s nuclear tests or the plight of Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar.
Then there were the British pols and media who came over for the yearly United Nations General Assembly with only one topic atop their minds: The Theresa and Boris Row. The country’s favorite political soap opera (that to outsiders might look like just another tempest in a teacup stirred up by Fleet Street) went on a cross-Atlantic tour, with a pit stop in sleepy Ottawa before its New York run.
In the end, Prime Minister Theresa May will arrive back in London on Thursday morning with her rebellious (and ambitious) foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, at her side on her RAF jet and seemingly cowed — for now.
But it was quite a chapter of the Tory Brexit show, which began at the weekend with Johnson’s 4,000-word article about his own vision for how to leave the EU that didn’t quite gel with the government’s. That in turn prompted speculation that he was going to resign and overshadowed May’s trip and her speech on Friday in Florence where she plans to lay out her own vision.
Officials in Number 10 first got word of Johnson’s screed in Saturday’s Daily Telegraph as they were putting the finishing touches to plans for the trip across the Atlantic on Friday. The piece dominated the all-important Sunday political television shows, with Home Secretary Amber Rudd accusing Johnson of backseat driving.
As everyone waited early on Monday to board the government’s Airbus A330 jet — dubbed May Force One — a related row between Johnson and David Norgrove, the head of the U.K. Statistics Authority, who called Johnson’s repeated claim there would be £350 million more available for the NHS post-Brexit as a “clear misuse of official statistics,” dominate the television screens in the airport departure lounge.
When three hours into the flight across the Atlantic, May emerged from her VIP area at the front of the plane to talk to journalists, having been briefed ahead of the “huddle,” she seemed relaxed, even joking with the traveling press pack.
An official said she was in good spirits as she had set off for Canada, teasing one official who had almost missed the plane.
Flanked by official spokesperson James Slack and chief of staff Gavin Barwell she insisted to journalists that the government was “driven from the front,” they were “all agreed on the basis of the Lancaster House speech”  — her blueprint for Brexit set out before she triggered Article 50 — a line held throughout the three-day visit.
As journalists reconnected to the outside world touching down for a day trip in the Canadian city of Ottawa, headlines shifted May’s way a bit, with her shrugging off the foreign secretary’s piece and telling journalists that “Boris is Boris.”
While newspaper stands were littered with briefings and counter-briefings following the unsanctioned intervention ahead of May’s Florence speech on Friday, Boris and Theresa were following separate schedules just yards apart in New York.
It should be easy to get lost in New York but broadcasters in May’s traveling press pack found Johnson within hours of landing. They were at a Midtown hotel interviewing May, where Johnson also happened to be staying.
In a stroke of luck for ITV, the BBC and Sky News, they ambushed the foreign secretary because lift overcrowding meant they had to wait to get up to meet the prime minister. He returned from a run just before they headed up to see the prime minister.
ITV political editor Robert Peston, Sky News political correspondent Beth Rigby and BBC deputy political editor John Pienaar had three or four minutes with the foreign secretary who insisted he would not resign and added: “We are working together, that is the key thing, to make sure that Britain can take advantage of the opportunities of Brexit.”
Asked if there was a cabinet split on Europe, Johnson said: “No, we are a government working together, we are a nest of singing birds.”
While apparently readily available to television crews, on Tuesday morning he had still not spoken to May about his intervention since the publication of his article on the previous Saturday.
“These are incredibly busy events and all of the seven British government ministers here attend a wide range of events,” said May’s official spokesperson. “It is all about meeting as many people as possible” — except, apparently, her own foreign secretary.
In Number 10 there was more of a sense of puzzlement than concern about the Johnson article, according to one official at Number 10, for what that’s worth.
While the official admitted that the timing of the piece had been “unhelpful,” they continued to point to his support for the Lancaster House speech in the article during the visit.
A Guardian interview in which Johnson called headlines about him quitting was a “great snore-athon” was met with a shrug by British aides in a New York pub.
International development secretary Priti Patel, a close ally of Johnson, emphasized the public unity, telling Sky News on Wednesday morning: “Let’s be clear, this isn’t about individual views of cabinet ministers, we in cabinet are united behind approach of Theresa May and that is the right approach as it is focused on getting best deal for U.K.”
It was on Tuesday night, almost 24 hours after the prime minister arrived in New York that May and Johnson appeared together, though it wasn’t clear if they in fact spoke.
Johnson, who had not previously been scheduled to attend a Commonwealth reception at the residence of British Ambassador Matthew Rycroft, turned up at the party after all, sharing that stage with May.
Those in the room have remained tightlipped about whether the pair interacted, but the prime minister’s official spokesperson confirmed to journalists when questioned in a briefing on Wednesday morning that: “The prime minister and the foreign secretary both attended and I think they all spoke to a wide range of other delegates.”
Foreign office and Number 10 officials were also drinking together. Simon McGee, the foreign office’s head of news, and May’s chief of staff, Gavin Barwell, attended drinks organized by the Number 10 press team at The Stags Head not far from the United Nations.
On Wednesday morning, following Johnson’s categorical denial that he would quit, the prime minister’s official spokesperson said that “program permitting” the foreign secretary and the international development secretary, Priti Patel, would be flying back Wednesday night on board May’s official plane with the traveling press pack, adding: “I am sure he will be with us at the front.”
As to whether they would have a substantive discussion about the speech, the spokesman told journalists that he didn’t know.


British Prime Minister Theresa May on Wednesday rebuked Donald Trump for pulling out of the Paris climate accord.
In a speech at the United Nations General Assembly, May mentioned the Paris deal as an example of how countries can work together to promote “fairness, justice and human rights.” Without mentioning Trump by name, May said it was “the fundamental values that we share — values of fairness, justice and human rights — that have created the common cause between nations to act together in our shared interest and form the multilateral system.
“And it is this rules-based system which we have developed — including the institutions, the international frameworks of free and fair trade; agreements such as the Paris climate accord; and laws and conventions like the Non-Proliferation Treaty — which enables the global co-operation through which we can protect those values.”
The British PM warned that undermining international institutions — including the U.N. — threatened countries’ national interests.
“If this system we have created is found no longer to be capable of meeting the challenges of our time — then there will be a crisis of faith in multilateralism and global co-operation that will damage the interests of all our peoples,” she said.
May gave her speech an hour before she was scheduled to meet Trump.
She also criticized Syria and North Korea, accusing them of “deliberately flouting — for their own gain — the rules and standards that have secured our collective prosperity and security.”
May also threatened to withhold money from the U.N. budget until it can demonstrate better value for money.
“The U.N. and its agencies must win our trust by proving to us and the people we represent that they can deliver,” she said. “That is why we will remain generous in our funding but set aside 30 percent to be paid only to those parts of the U.N. that achieve sufficient results.”
May was watched and applauded by her foreign secretary, Boris Johnson.
The visit to the U.N. General Assembly was overshadowed by speculation about Johnson’s future, after he wrote a 4,000-word article in the Telegraph setting out his vision for Brexit.


Former British Chancellor George Osborne is taking up his seventh job, as a visiting fellow at Stanford University in California, the Guardian reported Wednesday.
Osborne, who’s the editor of the London Evening Standard, among many other things, has been given two separate roles at the university: distinguished visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution and a dean’s fellow at its graduate business school.
According to Jonathan Levin, dean of the university, Osborne “brings deep policy and global experience.”
Prime Minister Theresa May demoted Osborne to the backbenches after she took over from David Cameron last year, in the wake of the Brexit referendum.
Osborne, finance minister in 2010-2016, stepped down from parliament in May.
He has taken on several jobs, with an advisory role at Blackrock, the world’s largest asset management company, his most lucrative sideline.
His other jobs include giving speeches via the Washington Speakers Bureau, chairing lobby group Northern Powerhouse Partnership, and academic posts at the McCain Institute for International Leadership, and Manchester University.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Wednesday condemned U.S. President Donald Trump’s rhetoric toward North Korea and said sanctions were the only way to get the country back to the negotiation table.
“I am against such threats,” Merkel told broadcaster Deutsche Welle when asked about Trump’s remarks at the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday.
Trump threatened to “totally destroy” North Korea if it continued with its nuclear arms development, but Merkel said sanctions are “the right answer.”
“We consider any form of military solution as totally inappropriate and we insist on a diplomatic solution,” she said.
Merkel added that she was prepared to take responsibility in resolving the conflict.
“Even if this conflict is far away from Germany, it is one that also affects us,” Merkel said. “That is why I am prepared, as is the foreign minister, to assume responsibility here.”


BERLIN — Among the hot-button issues, from North Korea to Brexit, that will land on Angela Merkel’s desk after election day is an equally urgent question, decidedly closer to home: What’s to be done about Wolfgang?
Merkel’s Christian Democrats are so far ahead in the polls that her reelection as chancellor is considered a near certainty. Wolfgang Schäuble’s continuation as finance minister is far less of a sure thing.
With Germany’s economy growing at a steady clip, its coffers overflowing and investors willing to pay a premium to own its debt, Schäuble’s job has become the most coveted position in the German cabinet.
Any party that seeks to build a coalition with Merkel is likely to make a run for the post.
In his eight years in the job, Schäuble made good on a promise to balance Germany’s budget and pay down its debt, even as he steered around the shoals of the euro crisis. In the process, he built a powerbase that Berlin’s chattering classes compare to a mini-chancellery.
But now there’s a good chance he could end up being a victim of his own success.
If Merkel is forced to trade away the finance ministry to secure a coalition, finding a place for Schäuble will be difficult. Any other Cabinet position she could offer him would pale in comparison. While the foreign ministry and the presidency of the German parliament are both possibilities, neither position would easily accommodate Schäuble’s often acerbic wit.
And retirement doesn’t appear to be an option.
Schäuble turned 75 this week. When he first joined the Bundestag 45 years ago, many of his fellow MPs weren’t even born yet. But he has given no indication that he’s ready to ride off into the sunset to pen his memoirs.
Indeed, his name will be on the ballot in his home district near the Black Forest in southwestern Germany on Sunday — just as it has been for the past 12 elections. “He’s made no hint that he wants to leave anytime soon,” a senior government official said.
And no one in the chancellor’s camp is asking him to. She needs him.
As Merkel moved the Christian Democrats further to the center over the years, Schäuble became one of the last truly conservative voices in the party’s leadership. He plays a crucial role in shoring up the base. He is also extremely popular among the general electorate, regularly topping approval rankings. That makes him a key voice in selling government policy to the public.
With his mix of sharp-tongued insults and self-effacing humor, Schäuble offers a welcome contrast to Merkel, whose public demeanor often comes across as austere — bordering on the dour.
Though Merkel and Schäuble have been working together since shortly after the fall of the Berlin Wall, their personal relationship is not as close as one might expect. Even in private, they still address one another formally as Herr Schäuble and Frau Merkel.
But that distance doesn’t appear to have affected their partnership.
Despite recurrent tensions between Merkel and her minister over the years on issues such as Greece’s place in the eurozone and the refugee crisis, Schäuble never broke with her.
“I’m difficult to deal with, the chancellor knows that, but I’m also loyal,” he told a Die Zeit interviewer in 2015. “I don’t have to prove my loyalty.“
Love him or hate him, few politicians have left as indelible a mark on German politics as Schäuble has, from managing the process of Germany’s reunification in the early 1990s to staving off the eurozone’s collapse. An assassination attempt in 1990 left him bound to a wheelchair but only bolstered his legend.
Revered at home as much as he is reviled by his detractors abroad, Schäuble clearly enjoyed basking in the limelight as the grand seigneur of German politics at his birthday celebration in his hometown this week.
Merkel came, praising his “burning passion“ as a political leader. European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, falling into his signature pathos, thanked Schäuble “for making the world a better place.”
Schäuble himself stressed how much he still enjoyed the political life, while hinting that even he didn’t know what his next act would be.
“Life sometimes does funny things with you,” he said.


NEW YORK — For better or for worse, Donald Trump is dominating the United Nations this week.
And he seems to be loving it.
While every U.S. president is looms large at the annual mosh pit of world leaders known as the U.N. General Assembly, Trump may be a uniquely dominant presence thanks to his brash style, controversial views and an unusual lack of competition: global titans like Russian President Vladimir Putin, Chinese Premier Xi Jinping and German Chancellor Angela Merkel are all absent this year.
Trump’s Monday address here annoyed allies and adversaries with bellicose rhetoric like his threat to “destroy” North Korea. But Trump seemed to relish telling off rival nations whose diplomats were seated within a stone’s throw of him.
Even offstage, Trump has been a sensation—and the event’s most sought-after attendee.
“People want to meet him because he’s got star power,” one White House official said. “And he is sort of warm in a more intimate setting. He still says the same things, but he tries to be everyone’s friend. He wants everyone to like him.”
Rather than take twitter potshots at an institution he denounced as a candidate, Trump has shown signs of enthusiasm and even awe about the week’s diplomatic bustle.
“Big meetings today at the United Nations. So many interesting leaders,” Trump tweeted Wednesday morning.
He then began a series of meeting with Arab and African leaders, including Jordan’s King Abdullah, who assured him that “Jordan will always stand beside your country,” and Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas.
Trump’s aides say the Republican president is largely staying on script and on schedule and that he seems honored that his home city of New York is hosting world leaders.
The absence of Putin, Xi and Merkel has meant less direct, on-the-scene pushback from those powerful leaders to Trump’s Monday address, in which he extolled the virtues of national sovereignty, trumpeted his “America First” philosophy, and slammed “rogue” regimes like North Korea’s.
“He refused to mouth the usual U.N. platitudes and to dilute his message, and why should he?” said Elliott Abrams, a conservative foreign policy thinker who worked in the George W. Bush administration. “Would Utopian visions and sweet talk have made the slightest impact on the way China or Russia or Iran or North Korea conduct themselves?”
To be sure, Trump’s Monday remarks drew plenty of backlash.
Iran’s foreign minister called Trump’s words “ignorant hate speech.” North Korea’s ambassador reportedly left the room just before Trump spoke. Venezuela’s representatives sat looking sour with their arms crossed; Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro, an increasingly isolated figure internationally, didn’t come to New York but called Trump as “the new Hitler.”
Even some allies were wary. The Swedish foreign minister, reflecting the views of many on the left, told the BBC that Trump delivered “the wrong speech, at the wrong time, to the wrong audience.”
But at the same time, Israel’s Benjamin Netanyahu, a major supporter of Trump, lauded the U.S. president’s speech as “brave and clear.”
And Trump aides note that the president earned praise from fellow Republicans, including some longtime skeptics, for his unapologetic nationalist tones before the international audience.
“What has been most striking is the breadth of support the speech has received across the Republican spectrum,” a senior Trump administration official said. “Some defined it as a ‘red meat’ speech for the base, but it is also getting applause from more traditional elements. He gave the whole party a policy to rally around.”
If anything, Trump’s U.N. appearance supports the idea that the only predictable thing about him is that he’s unpredictable.
On Monday, for instance, he charmed world leaders with a short, gracious speech about the need for U.N. reform. But Tuesday’s speech was all about bombast.
Richard Gowan, a U.N. expert with the European Council on Foreign Relations, said the danger of trying to explain Trump is that it’s easy to get distracted by his more outrageous comments and miss the subtleties.
For instance, Trump was relatively kind to Russia and China, making only fleeting references to their actions in Ukraine and the South China Sea.
And for all his talk of the importance of national sovereignty, Trump is learning he needs international help.
“It’s important to distinguish between Trump’s targeted bluster and the realities of U.N. diplomacy,” Gowan said. “Trump can keep calling North Korean leader Kim Jong Un silly names, but he still needs the U.N. Security Council to back him up on dealing with North Korea.”


PARIS — It was a rare unscripted moment in French politics. Emmanuel Macron, wearing a €1,600 suit, caught on camera lecturing a worker about the importance of hard work to get the nicer things in life.
Macron, who was economy minister at the time, shook off the ensuing controversy, switched to a cheaper tailor when his election campaign got under way, and went on to win the presidency.
The French, it seemed, were willing to forgive the political prodigy a flash of elitism. Six months into his presidency, that spirit of forgiveness is gone. Macron’s approval scores have fallen by a third since election day, and the rot shows no sign of stopping.
His chief political rival, the far-left firebrand Jean-Luc Mélenchon, is getting ready to stage massive protests against Macron’s labor reforms this weekend. And the president, instead of reaching out to the protesters, is enraging them with quips about “slackers,” “people who are nothing” and their “unreformable country.”
Confronted by a journalist about the use of the term “slackers,” Macron said he “absolutely did not regret” it.
For many Macron supporters, his choice of words — coupled with liberal economic reforms — is puzzling, if not downright infuriating. Is this the same man who vowed to unify France behind his La République en Marche (LRM) centrist movement, and who campaigned for greater “protection” for all French people?
If so, LREM party members said, the presidency has changed him profoundly and pushed him toward a right-leaning agenda that’s alienating many of the former Socialists who helped him to power in May.
“The problem with choosing words like that is that his supporters feel a form of condescension, and they do not take that well,” said Tiphaine Beaulieu, a local organizer for LREM who heads an internal rebellion against the party leadership. “The time will come when those supporters turn into opponents.”
Across the political spectrum, Macron’s attitude is described using one word above all: Arrogance.
“Whether you call it arrogance or condescension, there is a feeling among certain social categories, where Macron’s words are received like a slap in the face, that the president doesn’t care,” said Jérôme Fourquet, chief pollster at Ifop. “There is a feeling, real or imagined, especially among blue-collar people but also among some left-wingers in the middle classes who joined Macron, that this is a man who has nothing but disdain and condescension for you.”
He added: “His verbal slips, taken together with policies like the lowering of a housing allowance and the labor reform, are contributing to the trend in his approval scores.”
For Macron’s defenders, controversy about his choice of words is unfair and ultimately irrelevant to his reform agenda.
“When he [Macron] talks of extremists and slackers in his speech, he is clearly referring to leaders who stand in the way of reform, not unemployed people,” said an aide who asked not be named, referring to a speech Macron gave in Greece in which he said he would not allow his reforms to be derailed by “slackers or cynics.”
The charge of arrogance is unfair, the aide said, adding that Macron is a self-made man who hoisted himself to power through hard work and determination, and has repeatedly shown his willingness to get up close and personal with all types of people, no matter how hostile they might be.
“Could you see [centrist ex-president] Valéry Giscard d’Estaing risk getting his shirt torn off in front of the Whirlpool factory like Macron did?” said the aide, referring to Macron’s visit to a factory during the presidential campaign. “Is that arrogance?”
Another high-level backer, Jérôme Grand d’Esnon, said: “The president has a frank way of speaking which is refreshing, and his opponents are trying to exploit these so-called mistakes.”
Grand d’Esnon, who was formerly Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire’s campaign director and joined Macron’s party in February, added: “The French people elected Macron to reform, and his popularity has no effect on his reform agenda.”
Yet pollsters, rivals and rank-and-file activists beg to differ.
Far from being irrelevant, they say Macron’s apparent disdain for the public has a long-term, and potentially major, impact on his reform plans.
They say it’s symptomatic of a rightward lurch in his policies that will alienate leftist backers, who form the bulk of his base, and drive blue-collar voters even deeper into the arms of populists.
Not only is he setting himself up for failure in upcoming elections (the senatorial election on September 24; municipal and European ones in 2019), they argue, he is also testing the unity of his supporters in parliament.
In a first sign of division in Macron’s group, MP Brigitte Bourguignon predicted Tuesday that a lack of coherence in the party would end up with MPs leaving to join rival camps.
“He has a majority [in parliament],” said Fourquet of pollsters Ifop. “But we have seen with François Hollande how extreme unpopularity can lead to rebellions in parliament, which would be a risk for his reform agenda.”
If proof was needed that Macron’s words are being scrutinized, it can be found at rallies against his planned labor reforms.
Mélenchon turned Macron’s words into a rallying cry. “Idiots, cynics, slackers — all of you in the streets on September 12 and 23!” tweeted the MP, who joined a rally in Marseille earlier this month and will lead bigger protests this weekend.
Protesters also embraced the “slacker” comment, working it into dozens of slogans and placards. At a rally in Paris, several told POLITICO they felt targeted by the president’s quips, including about train stations being full of “people who are nothing,” about the “illiterate” population of northern France and about the country being “unreformable” because its people hate change.
For Grand d’Esnon, the problem is less with the president’s choice of words than his relationship with the media. “There is no one to explain the president’s actions, to give the off-record background that helps people understand what he’s doing and saying,” he said.
Indeed, with few allies in the media, Macron’s slip-ups become big news — even when they are fake.
Fourquet said respondents to polls still refer to a clip of the president wiping his hands with sanitizer after meeting ordinary citizens — even though it later came to light that Macron was wiping his hands to rid them of slime after picking up an eel.
The effect of such controversies is to widen the gulf between Macron and voters.
“This moment [the ‘slackers’ comment] is comparable to when Hillary Clinton talked about the ‘basket of deplorables’ [among Donald Trump supporters],” said Fourquet.
“It’s this sort of remark that becomes a rallying cry for the opposition, because it seems to show exactly how the leader, in this case Macron, really feels deep down about his opponents: They are slackers, people who are nothing.”


Michel Barnier says he is told by friends who have gone through a divorce that it is “painful, not pleasant, and costly.” And when it comes to the Brexit split, the EU’s chief negotiator says: “That’s where we are.”
Normally the dapper epitome of smooth diplomacy, Barnier has been delivering this uncharacteristically blunt assessment in a series of meetings and briefings for elite audiences across the Continent, according to several attendees who described the sessions for POLITICO.
Barnier’s main message is that the U.K. government’s demands remain highly unrealistic.
Even as British Prime Minister Theresa May is preparing to give a highly-anticipated speech in Italy on Friday, in which she is expected to restate her desire for a bespoke special relationship with the EU — perhaps with an initial financial offer included — Barnier has been telling his European audiences that Britain still doesn’t get it.
In meetings with public officials, private citizen groups and business executives, Barnier has warned in recent days that the U.K. will not achieve the “special” bespoke trade deal it has demanded without lengthy negotiations after its official departure. He said the U.K. was rejecting existing models for a future relationship such as those with Norway and Switzerland and advocating a path of divergence from EU standards. The risk for the EU, he said, is that Britain would, in future, try to gain a competitive trade advantage by adopting lower social or environmental standards.
“We are not going to mix up models,” Barnier has said, according to people who have heard his most recent stump speech, in which he refers to existing EU arrangements with Turkey, Norway and others. “But each model is available.”
In his recent appearances, including a luncheon speech at the exclusive Cercle Gaulois club in Brussels, a briefing at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, and in other private meetings, Barnier has reiterated in blunt language that the U.K.’s refusal to commit to a financial settlement had put its future relationship with the EU in jeopardy.
“How do you build a future relationship if there’s no trust, if you haven’t honored your commitments?” Barnier repeatedly asks his audiences.  “I don’t know how to do that.”
While his public remarks often seem carefully constructed for British ears, with pleadings such as “we need more clarity,” in private Barnier is at times considerably more direct. In one case, describing the U.K.’s obligation to the EU’s current long-term budget, which runs to 2020, Barnier said: “We don’t accept to pay as 27 what has been decided at 28. It’s as simple as that. No way.”
At other times, he adopts a pedagogical approach, using a teacherly manner to walk his listeners through the complexities of the Brexit process.
Barnier’s presentations are part of an ongoing campaign of public diplomacy aimed at maintaining unity on the EU side — and perhaps also laying the groundwork for a future tilt at the European Commission presidency, once Jean-Claude Juncker departs.
His main message underscores the deepening frustration in Brussels over what EU officials view as the U.K.’s muddled approach to the negotiations so far.
EU officials who once expressed hope that the U.K.’s national election in June would strengthen May’s mandate and her hand in the negotiations have watched with increasing dismay as Britain has remained embroiled in internal debates. This was evidenced most recently by a shake-up among top officials at the Department for Exiting the European Union, and a new rift over Brexit that has emerged between May and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson.
In recent days, Barnier has also met with a delegation of Portuguese diplomats, led by Secretary of State for European Affairs Ana Paula Zacarias, with members of the Scottish Parliament’s European committee, and with executives of EDF, the French energy conglomerate, which had raised specific concerns about the impact of Brexit on its industry, and particularly the nuclear energy sector.
At the negotiating table, Barnier has insisted that there can be no discussion of a future relationship until the withdrawal terms are settled. But in meetings with European stakeholders, Barnier is more than willing to look ahead, and has described himself as ready and even eager to begin negotiations on a future trade relationship with Britain as soon as the European Council judges that “sufficient progress” has been achieved on the divorce terms.
But he has also stressed that a future trade accord will have to be a so-called mixed agreement that will therefore require both lengthy negotiations as well as ratification by some 40 national and regional parliaments — a high hurdle that nearly derailed a trade accord with Canada last year.
As a prop, Barnier has been showing audiences a chart, originally prepared by former U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron to illustrate the importance to Britain of the EU’s single market. Barnier’s negotiating team, however, has updated the graphic to show the fast-diminishing economic might of individual European countries and thereby underscore the importance of the EU as a bloc.
The chart shows that by 2050, the U.K. and France will have dropped down the list of wealthiest countries, leaving only Germany among the world’s top 10 economies. “If we are not together, we will be pushed out, and thus will become spectators of what the others decide for us,” Barnier has said.
On Thursday, continuing to make the rounds, he is scheduled to meet Italian officials in Rome, but aides said he will return to Brussels and will not be in Florence for May’s speech.
On one point, Barnier seems to agree with his British counterparts, telling his audiences: “The future relationship is more important than the divorce.” But he does not allow that the discussions of the withdrawal and the future relationship must occur simultaneously, as the British have insisted, and he has been adamant that the future trade accord will take years to complete.
“Much more time,” he tells his audiences.


Broadcasters getting ready for Sunday’s German election have run into a problem: a marathon in Berlin being held on the same day that means their satellite vans can’t park in front of the parliament.
The road race passes close to the parliament building, which means space is limited for broadcasters, and some media outlets have been barred from getting close to the (political) action.
The ban, imposed by local officials in Mitte, the district of Berlin that houses the Reichstag, affects at least seven broadcasters, mostly non-German news outlets, the German press agency DPA reported. Instead, they will be based around one kilometer away from the parliament.
The German journalists’ association (DJV) criticized the local authority for taking the decision without consulting the parliament.
“We’re talking about a federal election here,” said DJV spokesman Hendrik Zörner.
Germany heads to the ballot box on September 24. It is widely expected that Chancellor Angela Merkel will secure another term, as her Christian Democratic Union is comfortably ahead in the polls.


People smugglers are finding new routes across the Balkans to illegally bring migrants and refugees into the EU, said Austrian Defense Minister Hans Peter Doskozil.
“The Balkan route is still not entirely closed,” Doskozil told German newspaper Die Welt in an interview published Wednesday.
“We can see that refugees, who for instance come from Greece or Serbia, are now using the route across Slovakia to go further north. They are taking the path through Romania and Bulgaria,” Doskozil said, explaining that this is due to Hungary and Macedonia controlling their borders.
Given the new routes, the defense minister said he did not think his country was secure enough. “The EU’s border agency Frontex cannot secure the European exterior borders in the way it is needed,” Doskozil said, adding that Austria has responded by using police and military forces to carry out “covert” border checks.
Doskozil explained that the Austrian military was never needed before to support the police in this way, but now it is “necessary.” He also called on the European Commission to come up with more “sustainable” solutions.
He proposed a four-step plan: establishing refugee centers outside the EU, better protecting the EU’s exterior borders, consistently deporting illegal migrants and resettling refugees in need of protection across the bloc. Despite both Hungary and Poland refusing to take part in the EU’s current refugee relocation scheme, Doskozil said he was “optimistic” that the two countries would ultimately accept refugees.
Austria established an upper limit of taking in 35,000 refugees for this year, and so far 20,000 have arrived, 12,000 of whom have applied for asylum, Doskozil said.
Austria has an upcoming snap election on October 15, which was called after the coalition between Doskozil’s Social Democrats (SPÖ) and the Austrian People’s Party (ÖVP) collapsed in May with the resignation of Vice Chancellor Reinhold Mitterlehner. The SPÖ, led by Chancellor Christian Kern, is in third place in recent polls at between 22 and 24 percent support.
The party is behind the center-right ÖVP in first place, polling at between 33 and 35 percent, and the right-wing Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ) at 23 to 25 percent.


British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has been making “strange statements” and is “completely out of the loop” on Brexit, according to Phil Hogan, the European agriculture commissioner.
“Clearly, he [Johnson] is not directly involved in the negotiations on behalf of the British government with the EU,” Hogan told the Evening Standard in an interview published Wednesday.
“He certainly has made very strange statements that are completely contradictory, and completely at odds with his own government’s position as well as the possibility of being reasonable with the EU in finalizing a deal.
“So it strikes me that he is completely out of the loop in relation to the type of concrete proposals that are required and that are being considered by the U.K. government.”
Irishman Hogan added that Johnson is “a diminished figure in the government.”
Johnson wrote in the Telegraph at the weekend that the U.K. should pay nothing to the EU for access to the single market, and revived a key demand of the Leave campaign — that £350 million a week sent to Brussels be redirected to fund the National Health Service.
On Tuesday the Telegraph claimed he was on the verge of quitting, only for Johnson himself to reject the allegation in an interview with the Guardian published later in the day.
The foreign secretary will accompany May to Florence for her speech on Brexit on Friday.


LONDON — Boris Johnson is up to his old tricks.
There’s something about the foreign secretary and £350 million that makes people lose their minds. Every mention of the figure sparks howls of outrage and debate about Britain’s actual financial contribution to Brussels.
And every time it happens, those shouting the loudest lose the argument.
It happened during the EU referendum campaign, when David Cameron’s team repeatedly singled out the “lie” as evidence of Vote Leave’s duplicity. Arguing that exiting the EU would mean the U.K. has £350 million a week extra to spend on the NHS confused net and gross contributions, bookish Remainers protested, as well as implicitly depriving farmers, U.K. regions and others of money they currently receive from Brussels via member country contributions.
But arguing over the accuracy of the claim only increased the salience of the cost of EU membership in voters’ minds.
The question now troubling journalists and MPs is whether Johnson has pulled the same stunt again.
Is there an ulterior motive to his 4,000 words of bluster in the Daily Telegraph?
For all the sound and fury at Johnson for claiming that £350 million a week will be under U.K. “control” to spend on its own priorities after Brexit (David Norgrove, the head of the U.K. Statistics Authority, called it a “clear misuse of official statistics”), he used his piece to accept that the money would only be available “once we have settled our accounts” with the EU.
It was an admission that Britain has a Brexit bill and it will have to be paid.
What’s more, aides close to Johnson made clear over the weekend that the foreign secretary accepts the idea of continuing payments to the EU during a transition period — a major concession that helps clear the way to a potential interim deal while a future free-trade agreement is negotiated.
The two facts were largely ignored amid the outrage over the £350 million.
Johnson’s insistence that Britain will not pay to access the single market after Brexit also sparked controversy. “We would not expect to pay for access to their markets any more than they would expect to pay for access to ours,” he said. The assertion sparked claims that he was battling to stop Theresa May giving way to the soft Brexiteers and that she was considering a Norwegian or Swiss model, with annual payments to Brussels in return for access to the European market.
On Monday, the Sun reported that Johnson had told friends he could not live with such an arrangement and on Tuesday the Telegraph claimed he was on the verge of quitting, only for Johnson himself to reject the allegation in an interview with the Guardian published later in the day.
Johnson’s position on continuing payments to Brussels is on the hawkish end of the Brexit spectrum, senior government aides admit, but it is consistent with being outside the single market and negotiating a free-trade agreement, which is currently May’s official position (although she has not ruled out continuing payments for extra access).
In the interview with the Guardian, Johnson explained his position: “I don’t think the sums should be too high, but it is obviously legitimate and right that we should pay our dues — we are a law-abiding country — during the period of membership. Where our lawyers say we are on the hook for stuff, then we are going to have to pay. But what I do not envisage is that we should pay into the EU just for access to the single market, or some such concept. It does not seem to be necessary. We do not get money for access to our markets.”
Ironically, Johnson’s position is not even that controversial on the Continent. One senior French official who spoke to POLITICO on condition of anonymity said Britain would not be expected to pay into the EU budget, accept the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice or freedom of movement if it wanted only a limited relationship like Canada’s.
Johnson, in other words, has smuggled two concessions into what appears, on the surface at least, to be a hard-line stance. There is nothing in the Telegraph article that prevents the U.K. making progress in the Brexit talks, particularly over the bill, next week.
The real relevance of the intervention is that he felt he could do it and didn’t feel the need to get the agreement of the prime minister’s office.
When it landed on the desk of Robbie Gibb, May’s director of communications, on Friday, the piece did not spark immediate panic, according to one aide familiar with what happened. The article was seen as largely anodyne, repeating many of the things already known about his position, although it was obvious it would cause a stir.
“It’s not a contradiction of official government policy,” one senior government aide said.
What was more striking was that it was presented “as a fait accompli.” Johnson was not asking for permission to write a giant and potentially controversial article.
This is the lesson from the whole episode. Since the election, Cabinet ministers do not feel they have to “clear” contentious interventions with the prime minister’s office, said one adviser to a Cabinet minister.
Johnson — like every member of the Cabinet — is more powerful than he was before the election and is evidently keen to showcase this strength.
Until now, Johnson has been a relatively minor figure in the Brexit process, a peripheral beast prowling at the edges of the debate while Brexit Secretary David Davis and May’s trusted advisor on Europe Olly Robbins battled for supremacy and the prime minister’s ear.
In his interview with the Guardian, Boris admitted that he wanted to have his voice heard.
“It is perfectly true that I had thought ‘res ipsa loquitur’ [the matter speaks for itself], just get on and do the job, but I was conscious that people wanted me to contribute to the public debate.
“One after the other people wrote articles saying ‘where oh where, why cannot we hear from Johnson?’ I then obliged them.
“So I contributed a small article to the pages of the Telegraph, and now everyone who had previously accused me of saying too little are now saying I am saying rather too much.
“People have got to make up their minds. What do they want? What I want from my critics is some bloody consistency, the great inveterate jalopies.”
In the run-up to the speech, May consulted regularly with Davis and other Cabinet ministers. There was a meeting last week where six secretaries of state were brought in to talk about Europe, but Johnson wasn’t there because he was in the Caribbean in the aftermath of Hurricane Irma.
With his intervention on Saturday, he has assured his voice cannot be ignored, even if the actual meat of his demands do not bind the prime minister’s hands as much as the initial furor suggested.
If Johnson is “backseat driving,” as Home Secretary Amber Rudd suggested, the course he is setting is not so distant from the prime minister’s, even if he wants to get there a little bit faster.
This was the view set out by a senior government official in New York Tuesday. “As the PM said, they are all clearly heading in the same direction on Brexit. All the Cabinet are heading in the same direction.”


The European Parliament’s Brexit co-ordinator said Wednesday that it’s the U.K.’s responsibility to come up with a “unique solution” to the Irish border problem.
“We all know this unique solution [to Northern Ireland] has to be proposed by the U.K. side, because the problem is a consequence of the decision of the U.K. to leave the European Union,” Verhofstadt told Irish broadcaster RTÉ during a two-day visit to both sides of the Irish border.
Verhofstadt suggested that Northern Ireland could continue to be in the customs union and the single market after Brexit as a way prevent a hard border between Ireland and Northern Ireland, but it was up to the U.K. to decide.
“The point is it is the U.K. government that has to come forward with such unique solutions.”
While the Parliament does not take part in the Brexit negotiations, it has to approve any final deal between the EU and the U.K. Verhofstadt has threatened to veto any Brexit deal without satisfactory provisions for citizens’ rights, an issue yet to be resolved in the negotiations.
“For the moment we don’t see a workable solution being put forward by the U.K. government,” the former Belgian prime minister added.
Verhofstadt is scheduled to meet Northern Irish leaders, including Arlene Foster of the Democratic Unionist Party, as well as Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar on Thursday.
Michel Barnier, the EU’s chief Brexit negotiator, visited Ireland in May and addressed the upper and lower houses of the Irish parliament. But he did not meet prominent Northern Irish politicians.
Both Verhofstadt and Barnier have urged the U.K to preserve the Good Friday Agreement after Brexit and avoid any hard border with Ireland.


Catalonia’s president, Carles Puigdemont, on Wednesday criticized “coordinated aggression” by the Spanish authorities “with the aim of impeding Catalans to freely and peacefully exercise democracy on October 1.”
Puigdemont released a statement after the Spanish Civil Guard arrested 12 people in Barcelona in an operation to prevent Catalan authorities from holding the independence referendum, Spanish media reported.
Among those arrested were Catalan government officials — including an aide to Catalan regional Vice President Oriol Junqueras — and people linked to the organization of the referendum, which is outlawed by Spain’s Constitutional Court.
Spanish police also raided several government offices in Barcelona looking to confiscate election material linked to the referendum.
In his statement, Puigdemont said he had “a clear message” to citizens that “we condemn and reject this totalitarian and anti-democratic attitude by the Spanish state. The government has shown us its intolerant side, which has been displayed throughout a large part of Spain’s political history.”
He added that “no other member of the European Union is going through what Catalonia is going through. To all democrats, in and outside of Catalonia, who today feel indignation about the events of these last few hours, the government of Catalonia reaffirms its commitment to them and will always ensure their protection. We will not accept a return to former times and we will not accept them preventing us from deciding on our free and democratic future.”
On Wednesday evening, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy read out a statement as crowds gathered in Barcelona to protest against the arrests.
The conservative prime minister attempted to deflect Puigdemont’s accusations that the arrests were anti-democratic by accusing the Catalan secessionists themselves of being “radically anti-democratic.”
“It is a totalitarian act,” said Rajoy, calling on the regional government to give up its attempt to hold a vote “that cannot be held.”
“We are still in time to avoid bigger problems,” said Rajoy, adding that he remained open to discussion with the Catalan regional government and to hear their demands in person.
Earlier, Puigdemont convened an emergency meeting with his Cabinet, after which he accused the Spanish government of “crossing the red line that separates authoritarian and repressive regimes.”
He called the police raids a “suspension” of Catalonia’s autonomy and accused the government of declaring a “de facto state of emergency.”
Rajoy justified the police actions in parliament on Wednesday, saying: “The government is doing what it must do. I believe the government is complying with its obligation and I must say we will keep doing it until the end.”
He added: “This is a judicial operation which is being done to guarantee … that the law is respected.”
In response, demonstrators gathered in the Barcelona city center to protest the police action.
Junqueras tweeted Wednesday: “They are attacking the institutions of this country and therefore attacking the citizens. We will not allow it.”
Barcelona Mayor Ada Colau also spoke out against the police operation, saying in a  tweet that it was “a democratic scandal.”
Diego Torres contributed to this report.


French media are “totally narcissistic,” Emmanuel Macron told a press conference in New York on Tuesday.
The French president faced criticism for granting an interview to CNN International ahead of French outlets after his U.N. General Assembly address, Europe 1 reported.
Speaking in English, Macron sat down with journalist Christiane Amanpour for an interview that touched on his diplomatic policy, North Korea and climate change — his first formal English-language interview since acceding to the presidency.
“I am at the United Nations and a journalist offered to do an interview on my diplomatic policy, and I did it,” Macron said. “Given the seriousness of the issues, let’s talk about the challenges facing the planet and stop talking in such a circular way about communication.”
“When I see the time spent in the past four months commenting only on my silences and my sayings, I think that it is a totally narcissistic system,” he said, adding that French outlets appeared to more interested in “communication” than “content.”
It’s not the first time Macron has hit out at French media.
During his candidacy, he criticized recent presidents of maintaining “too much closeness with journalists.” In September, he accused journalists of being “too interested in themselves and not enough in the country.”
Macron reversed his communications tactics in August, becoming increasingly open to conducting interviews and addressing the French public directly.
Despite his criticism of French journalists on Tuesday, Macron also used his U.N. address to call for the global protection of journalists “because nothing can justify the reduction of freedom of the press.”


The Socialist Party’s famed Paris headquarters are up for sale, the party announced late Tuesday.
A series of defeats in this year’s French presidential and parliamentary elections cost the party up to €21 million in lost funding, pushing it to the brink of financial collapse.
“The decision was difficult … because this place is symbolic,” party treasurer Jean-François Debat said in a press conference, adding that the party was “obviously” suffering from “financial constraints.”
The building that has been the party’s home for the past 30 years — located on Rue de Solférino a block away from the Musée d’Orsay in the 7th Arrondissement — could fetch up to €53 million.
POLITICO reported on the possibility the party could be forced to sell its headquarters in June. Later that month, the Socialists suffered a humiliating defeat in the legislative elections, where they lost 250 seats, leaving them with only 30.
At the time, Rachid Temal, the Socialists’ No. 2, said the party was studying various options — including letting go of property.
“The party is going to position itself to get moving again,” he said. “Public subsidies are one part of the equation; our property is another. Every option is possible.”
“It is also a political decision to prepare for the future,” Debat said Tuesday.


Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson backed off from a showdown with Prime Minister Theresa May, telling the Guardian he would not resign after May delivers a speech outlining her Brexit policies on Friday. “Boris steps back from brink as May seals Cabinet Brexit truce,” reported the Telegraph. The Financial Times focused more on May’s speech, reporting she was preparing “€20bn EU budget offer to break Brexit deadlock.” According to the FT’s accounting, €20 billion “would allow the EU to avoid reopening its long-term budget plan prematurely, and would cover unpaid projects Britain signed off before its 2019 exit. It would not, however, cover long-term liabilities or spending promises made during the transition period.”
“Boris: Me, quit? I’m as happy as a bird singing in a nest,” was the Daily Mail’s headline.



Le Monde reported on another hurricane, Maria, on-course for French Antilles in the Caribbean. It also led with a report on the German election titled: “The extreme right at the doors of the Bundestag,” above a picture of a graffitied Alternative for Germany campaign poster. Right-leaning Le Figaro huffed over a particular component of higher education reform, which may see selective universities open their doors to more applicants. “The university, submerged by the number of candidates destined for certain failure, will not recover,” the paper warned.


Belgian newspapers on Wednesday followed up on a Tuesday report in De Morgen that Migration Minister Theo Francken invited Sudanese officials — possibly from the country’s notorious intelligence services — to identify Sudanese migrants at the Bruxelles-Nord train station to help the Belgian government deport them. “Outcry after Francken’s invitation to the Sudanese regime,” read Le Soir. The French paper also issued a strongly worded editorial titled: “Two irresponsible people for two nuclear buttons,” reporting on tensions between North Korea and the United States.


The Süddeutsche Zeitung reported on German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier’s complaints this year’s election cycle was too “aggressive.” It also ran a report on the government’s struggles to recruit pollsters for the big day. Frankfurter Allgemeine published an opinion piece arguing that no, this election campaign has not been boring!


 


The most sophisticated system in the world for defending human rights is facing a test. So far, it’s failing.
Nearly 10,000 judgments of the European Court of Human Rights have not been put into effect by national governments. Some of those cases were ruled on as far back as 1992, and they cover all but one of the 47 member countries of the Strasbourg-based Council of Europe, the court’s parent body and the Continent’s leading human rights organization.
The failure to implement these judgments — detailed in a Council of Europe database — means that practices have continued across Europe, in many cases for years, after being ruled violations of human rights. These range from segregating HIV-positive prisoners in Greece, to police brutality in Bulgaria, to not properly investigating deaths of prisoners in Romania.
One case in particular could soon elevate this problem to a bigger political stage. The court ruled in 2014 that the detention of Ilgar Mammadov, an opposition leader in Azerbaijan, was a human rights violation — but he is still in prison three years later.
Mammadov’s case is on the agenda at a quarterly meeting of Council of Europe ministers this week. The ministers face pressure to take the unprecedented step of sending the case back to the court for another judgment or even expelling Azerbaijan from the Council.
“We cannot have political prisoners in Europe,” Council Secretary-General Thorbjørn Jagland said in a written statement to POLITICO. “The time has come for Azerbaijan to think hard about its obligations as a member of the Council of Europe and whether it still wants to fulfill them.”
So far, however, the committee has chosen to avoid drastic measures in this or any other case in which the judgment of its own court has been ignored.
When the European Court of Human Rights finishes deciding a case, it issues a judgment. If it rules that someone’s rights were violated, it instructs the country at fault to do two things: compensate the individual who won the case, and implement any changes necessary at a national level to avoid repeat violations.
But the court doesn’t tell the country how to fix the problem; just that it needs to do so. It can issue recommendations, but it’s ultimately up to the country to decide what needs to be done.
“In cases of good people in government, it’s true that they are in a much better position to know how to best remedy the violation,” said Ramute Remezaite, a legal consultant at the European Implementation Network, an NGO that campaigns for all of the court’s judgments to be respected. “The court may not understand the national context like national authorities would. But that’s being abused by some countries.”
Once a judgment has been issued, it’s passed to the Committee of Ministers, made up of member countries’ foreign ministers. The committee puts each new case into one of two baskets: standard cases that should be fairly straightforward to implement, and enhanced cases that require urgent action or more complex, systematic change in a country — changing a law, or reforming a court or prison system, for example.

10,000 WAYS NOT TO IMPLEMENT
9,944 judgments of the European Court of Human Rights have not been implemented by countries. Click on any bubble to see a breakdown of judgments still pending, by country, supervision level and type of violation.
window.onload = function() { var currentWindow = document.getElementsByClassName("story-text")[0].clientWidth; if(319 < currentWindow < 1000){ document.getElementById("thesvg").setAttribute("width", currentWindow); document.getElementById("thesvg").setAttribute("height", currentWindow); } if (currentWindow < 320){ document.getElementById("thesvg").setAttribute("width", "320"); document.getElementById("thesvg").setAttribute("height", "320"); } else if (currentWindow > 999){ document.getElementById("thesvg").setAttribute("width", 1000); document.getElementById("thesvg").setAttribute("height", 1000); }  var minFontSize = 65; var maxFontSize = 145; var svg = d3.select("svg"), margin = 20, diameter = +svg.attr("width"), g = svg.append("g").attr("transform", "translate(" + diameter / 2 + "," + diameter / 2 + ")"), format = d3.format(",d"); var color = d3.scaleLinear() .domain([-1, 2]) .range(["hsl(240,20%,98%)", "hsl(202,42%,51%)"]) .interpolate(d3.interpolateHcl); var pack = d3.pack() .size([diameter - margin, diameter - margin]) .padding(2); d3.json("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ghervey/ECHR/master/PackableCirclesConsolidatedViolations_2.json", function(error, root) { if (error) throw error; root = d3.hierarchy(root) .sum(function(d) { return d.size; }) .sort(function(a, b) { return b.value - a.value; }); var focus = root, nodes = pack(root).descendants(), view; var circle = g.selectAll("circle") .data(nodes) .enter().append("circle") .attr("class", function(d) { return d.parent ? d.children ? "node" : "node node--leaf" : "node node--root"; }) .style("fill", function(d) { return d.children ? color(d.depth) : null; }) .on("click", function(d) { if (focus !== d) zoom(d), d3.event.stopPropagation(); }); 		var text = g.selectAll("text.labelvalues").data(nodes).enter().append("text").attr("class", "labelvalues").style("fill-opacity", function(d) {return d.parent === root ? 1 : 0;}).style("display", function(d) {return d.parent === root ? "inline" : "none";}).style("font-size", function(d) {return Math.ceil(minFontSize+((d.value-1)/root.children[0].value)*(maxFontSize-100)) + "%"; }).attr("y", function(d) {return Math.ceil(20 + d.value/100) + "px";}).text(function(d) {return format(d.value);}); var text = g.selectAll("text.label") .data(nodes) .enter().append("text") .attr("class", "label") .style("fill-opacity", function(d) { return d.parent === root ? 1 : 0; }) .style("display", function(d) { return d.parent === root ? "inline" : "none"; }) .style("font-size", function(d) {return Math.ceil(minFontSize+((d.value-1)/root.children[0].value)*(maxFontSize-100)) + "%"; }) .text(function(d) { return d.data.name }); var node = g.selectAll("circle,text"); node.append("title") .text(function(d) { return d.data.name + ": " + d.value }); svg .style("background", color(-1)) .on("click", function() { zoom(root); }); zoomTo([root.x, root.y, root.r * 2 + margin]); function zoom(d) { var focus0 = focus; focus = d; var transition = d3.transition() .duration(d3.event.altKey ? 7500 : 750) .tween("zoom", function(d) { var i = d3.interpolateZoom(view, [focus.x, focus.y, focus.r * 2 + margin]); return function(t) { zoomTo(i(t)); }; }); transition.selectAll("text") .filter(function(d) { return d.parent === focus || this.style.display === "inline"; }) .style("fill-opacity", function(d) { return d.parent === focus ? 1 : 0; }) .style("font-size", function(d) {return Math.ceil(minFontSize+((d.value-1)/d.parent.children[0].value)*(maxFontSize-100)) + "%";}).on("start", function(d) { if (d.parent === focus) this.style.display = "inline"; }) .on("end", function(d) { if (d.parent !== focus) this.style.display = "none"; }); transition.selectAll("text.labelvalues").attr("y", function(d) {return Math.ceil(20 + d.value/100) + "px";})} function zoomTo(v) { var k = diameter / v[2]; view = v; node.attr("transform", function(d) { return "translate(" + (d.x - v[0]) * k + "," + (d.y - v[1]) * k + ")"; }); circle.attr("r", function(d) { return d.r * k; }); } }); }
SOURCE: Department for the Execution of Judgments of the ECHR website METHODOLOGY NOTE: This visualization is based on a database containing summaries of documents. To avoid duplicates, cases with multiple violations were only counted as the first violation listed.
Next, the defendant country issues an “action plan” for review by the committee, detailing how it will implement the judgment. If the plan is approved, the member nation is on track to resolving the problem. It submits action reports for review until the committee decides the judgment has been fully implemented.
This follow-up system sets the Council of Europe apart; there are similar regional human rights systems elsewhere in the world, but none of them has a mechanism to check in on countries.
But it has its flaws. The body is made up of high-level politicians, and officials both inside and outside the council told POLITICO that relationships between countries have an impact on how critical ministers are willing to be of each other. The committee is also made up entirely of ministers who are themselves accountable to the system: It could be their country in the hot seat next.
Perhaps the committee’s biggest flaw is that if a country doesn’t implement a judgment, there’s not much it can do. The Council of Europe’s commissioner for human rights, Nils Muižnieks, said that as some European countries backslide on democratic standards, the court and the committee are at a loss on how to enforce judgments.
“Our work is based on cooperation and good faith,” Muižnieks said. “When you don’t have that, it’s very difficult to have an impact. We kind of lack the tools to help countries that don’t want to be helped.”
All of these factors have led to an increase in the number of judgments not being implemented — from 2,624 in 2001 to 9,944 in 2016.
Some of the most common judgments not to have been implemented concern violations by security forces and poor detention conditions. At the end of 2016, more than 3,200 of these cases had not been resolved.
In January 2013, rioting broke out in the Azerbaijani town of Ismayilli over an alleged assault on local people by a public official. Opposition politician Mammadov traveled from Baku, the capital, to see the protests firsthand.
“People are angry,” Mammadov wrote on his blog after the event. “The events in Ismayilli were not and are not a calm peaceful protest, it is an extremely violent but just protest and the responsibility for it lies with [President] Ilham Aliyev.”
Mammadov’s blog post was quoted widely in the media. A week later, after security forces broke up protests with tear gas and water cannons and arrested more than 60 people, local authorities called Mammadov in for questioning.
On February 4, he was again detained and this time arrested for “aiming to … create artificial tension and to violate the social and political stability in the country.”
Earlier that month, Mammadov had announced that he was considering running against Aliyev in the upcoming presidential election.
Mammadov was sentenced to seven years in prison, beginning in March 2014. Two months later, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Azerbaijan — which, ironically, had taken over the rotating presidency of the Committee of Ministers just days before — had arrested Mammadov “to silence or punish [him] for criticizing the Government.”
Azerbaijan submitted an action plan; it allowed visits from Commissioner Muižnieks and a delegation conducting an inquiry for the Committee of Ministers; it even paid Mammadov €22,000 in compensation for violating his rights, as recommended by the court. But it still has not released the 47-year-old from prison.
Azerbaijan argues that it has not breached the Strasbourg-based court’s judgment, saying the court’s ruling related to Mammadov’s arrest and pre-trial detention — not his subsequent imprisonment. A separate case on that issue is still pending before the court, so Azerbaijan “firmly rejects any claim suggesting that it has refused to implement” the judgments of the court, the country’s mission to the EU said in a statement.
But Mammadov’s treatment has become a “test case of the legitimacy of the Council of Europe,” according to a petition signed by 44 civil society groups calling for the council to take action against Azerbaijan. A senior official from a Council of Europe delegation, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the committee has become more and more concerned about Azerbaijan’s “failure to engage,” which “could be perceived as displaying contempt towards the committee’s authority.”
“The entire credibility of the Committee of Ministers is at stake,” said the official.
The committee has brought up the Mammadov case at every one of its last 11 quarterly meetings — but to little obvious effect.
Even Mammadov himself, who has always been an advocate of the Council of Europe, appears disillusioned. After the Committee of Ministers declared there had been a “positive development” in his case at their June meeting, Mammadov wrote on his blog that the “Committee of Ministers laughed at me again,” and that “Mr. Aliyev joined the laughter.” Mammadov referred to this week’s meeting of the ministers as the “12th quarterly tickling” by the committee.
“I am afraid they will tickle each other to death of laughter by the end of my prison sentence,” he wrote.
If the committee decides a country has not complied with a judgment, it can enact Article 46.4 of the European Convention on Human Rights — sending the case back to the court to determine if the government has failed to act.
The option has never been used but it was discussed last year by the Committee of Ministers in Mammadov’s case. A formal vote was postponed for fear that it would not receive the necessary two-thirds majority, the official within the committee told POLITICO.
“The worst thing that could possibly happen is that it goes to the floor and the vote fails, because if you fail the first time it’s never going to be used again,” the official said.
But activists like Remezaite as well as Commissioner Muižnieks and Mammadov himself (via a letter to the committee) are calling for this option. Last Wednesday, at the Committee of Ministers’ weekly meeting, Council of Europe Secretary-General Jagland argued in favor of launching the Article 46.4 procedure, his spokesman said.
But Article 46.4 may prove to be a feedback loop: If the court again rules that Azerbaijan hasn’t obeyed, the case will simply go back to the Committee of Ministers, where it started.
Azerbaijan argues there is no need to refer the case back to the court since it is still considering Mammadov’s imprisonment.
The only other option available to the Committee would be expulsion from the Council of Europe. But Remezaite says this path is even less appealing and even more self-defeating than the last. If you expel a country for not implementing judgments, then you have no authority in the future to make them implement judgments — and no outlet for that country’s citizens to appeal to if their rights are violated.
Yet, as things stand, defenders of the court worry that its authority is crumbling as countries become bolder in defying its judgments.
The U.K. has repeatedly refused to repeal legislation preventing prisoners from voting, despite a 2006 ECHR ruling saying it was a violation of the European Convention of Human Rights. Russia has challenged prisoners’ voting rights and passed a law allowing its Constitutional Court to overrule European Court of Human Rights rulings. Denmark — which takes over the rotating presidency of the Council of Europe in November — is lobbying other governments to push back the power of the court.
“It’s worrying,” Muižnieks said. “People have forgotten why the system was created, and that it’s a game that everyone has to play by the rules or it all falls apart.”


MADRID — Catalan separatists believe they have found a way to win over some of the millions of Spanish-speaking residents who have so far been deaf to their arguments ahead of the October 1 referendum on breaking with Spain.
Determined to test how far Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy is willing to go to prevent the vote, which has been banned by the Constitutional Court, they need to make inroads into the roughly half of the Catalan population that is descended from people from other parts of the country and feel emotionally attached to Spain.
Enter Gabriel Rufián.
The 35-year-old Spanish-speaking lawmaker (and avid supporter of the national football team) is the author of tough tweets and viral headlines that have made him a key voice in the campaign.
“I’m the son and grandson of Andalusians who moved to Catalonia from Jaen and Granada 55 years ago … and I’m pro-independence,” Rufián said in his March 2016 maiden speech in the Spanish Congress for the Catalan Republican Left (ERC), one of the two leading pro-independence forces.
“Behold your defeat and behold our victory,” he added.
Rufián’s speech — delivered in a slow tempo marked by long silences and punchy, short sentences — was an instant hit.
“A star is born,” said El País, the national newspaper whose editorials tend to denounce the independence movement. “Spain discovers Gabriel Rufián,” said the Catalan newspaper Ara.
Rufián is keen to avoid any suggestion that the secessionist movement is nationalist in the traditional sense. He avoids nativist slogans, and tries to portray independence as a way to get rid of Spain’s fascist heritage, to protect social rights and even to act as a trigger for positive reform across the whole country.
“We’re doing this for the rest of the state as well … for Spain, in short,” Rufián told POLITICO, arguing that the only way to further “democratize” Spain is for people to vote in the Catalan independence referendum on October 1.
“Francoism didn’t die on a bed in Madrid on November 20, 1975; it will die in a ballot box in Catalonia on October 1, 2017,” he tweeted this week.
As someone who grew up in the mostly unionist outskirts of Barcelona, from a family with roots in other regions of Spain, Rufián helps the narrative that the pro-independence movement is plural and inclusive.
Lluis Orriols, a professor at Carlos III University in Madrid, argued that Rufián plays a very important role in the Catalan pro-independence discourse, as a way of saying: “Not only Catalan surnames and the Catalan bourgeoisie is behind this project.”
“ERC wants to tell its grassroots in Catalonia’s interior, who’ve been die-hard secessionists for many years, that they’re gaining ground in the Spanish-speaking metropolitan area of Barcelona,” said Enric Hernández, editor of the Catalan newspaper El Periódico.
“It’s not true, but it’s very comforting,” Hernández added. “Seeing that a guy from Santa Coloma de Gramenet [Rufián’s home city] has become pro-independence and, what is more, a rock star … They love it.”
Like Rufián, most people in Catalonia speak both Catalan and Spanish. However, most people use one language more often than the other, which is usually dictated by their parents’ birthplace and what language their parents spoke at home.
According to research by the government-funded Centre d’Estudis d’Opinió, around 44 percent of citizens in Catalonia speak mostly Spanish, 40 percent speak mostly Catalan, and 15 percent speak both languages indistinctly.
While it’s true that the Catalan secessionist movement has gained ground across the board — growing from 14 percent support in 2006 to 41 percent this year — Spanish-speaking areas of Catalonia, mostly along the coast and around Barcelona, remain the last unconquered frontier.
Support for independence is at 71 percent among those who speak Catalan most often. In contrast, it falls to 17 percent among those who primarily speak Spanish.
One of Rufián’s key messages is that Spain can’t be reformed to accommodate the aspirations of Catalans who want more autonomy for the region but would like to remain in Spain — a decisive group that could tip the scales for unionists or secessionists.
But Rufián is hardly a one-trick pony in his efforts to win over Spanish speakers in Catalonia. From his position as an antagonist of Rajoy and his Cabinet in weekly question sessions in Congress, Rufián has become the undisputed rock star of the Catalan pro-independence camp and the unionists’ bête noire. His unabashed leftism, cheeky style and fresh face provided a much-needed shakeup for the secessionists.
“In any conflict, you need good propagandists and agitators, and Rufián is one of the best,” said Nacho Corredor, a political consultant.
Last week, Rufián took a printer into the national parliament and showed it off during a heated exchange with Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría over the government’s attempts to prevent the ballot from going ahead. “This is what you’re after,” he said. “This is the corpus delicti.”
“I hope you won’t detain me … I confess I’ve got a ballot paper,” he added.
Sáenz de Santamaría’s response was stern: “You can come wearing a T-shirt with whatever slogan you want, you can summarize your best tweets of the week … You can even bring the printer to teach us crafts with which to manufacture your home-made referendum.”
“This government you so criticize, this state that bothers you so much and this democracy that suffocates you, allows you to perform your weekly petty shows,” she said.
Joan Tardà, a fellow ERC lawmaker, said Rufián is the pro-independence politician with the greatest impact on young people: “He communicates in a very modern way, he knows how to separate the wheat from the chaff.”
People like him because he challenges their preconceptions about the independence movement, Tardà added. Tardà said that when he tells people in the street that he isn’t a nationalist, they don’t believe him, but “in contrast they do trust Rufián.”
Rufián’s tweets are some of the most shared, commented on and controversial among Spanish politicians. He said he considers the social network an “ego monster” and “a great political tool,” and that he doesn’t tweet before consulting with a group of three to five people.
His media impact has attracted vicious attacks. “His stare … reminded me vaguely of the stare of an ISIS fanatic, somewhere between languid and drugged up, just before blowing himself up or slicing a hostage’s throat,” wrote one media commentator after his parliament debut. His surname — which means ruffian in Spanish — has become commonly used to refer to pro-independence forces in general.
Rufián’s style is confrontational, and he does not mince his words. After a leftist lawmaker in the Catalan chamber denounced abuses by the separatist majority in approving the referendum law in the Catalan regional parliament earlier this month, Rufián hit back that he was “like the comrades who 40 years ago went to workers’ homes with uncalloused hands to tell them they should not strike.”
Political consultant Corredor said Rufián is an expert at winding up his opponents to provoke aggressive responses which then serve to underline many Catalans’ perception of Spain as intolerant and right-wing.
Professor Orriols said Rufián works well as a polarizing figure who can mobilize his own side, but not as someone who can convince those who are in the middle ground.
With the tension mounting in the run-up to the October referendum, and state pressure against the vote’s organizers increasing, fighting between supporters and detractors of Catalan independence is only likely to increase.
“Let people turn off the TV and not read the newspapers until October 1,” said Rufián. “It would be highly advisable, because otherwise they’re going to experience the dirtiest war in history.”


Boris Johnson won’t quit the British government because of differences over Brexit, he said Tuesday.
The foreign secretary told the Guardian that despite reports he was prepared to walk away from his post by the weekend if Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit speech in Florence didn’t meet his expectations, he wasn’t going anywhere.
“I am mystified by all this stuff,” Johnson said. “Not me, guv. I don’t know where it is coming from, honestly. It feels to me like an attempt to keep the great snore-athon story about my article running. I think that is what is going on.”
The article in question was a 4,000-word piece in the Telegraph in which Johnson laid out his vision of Brexit. He wrote that the U.K. should pay nothing to the EU for access to the single market, and revived a key demand of the Leave campaign — that £350 million a week sent to Brussels be redirected to fund the National Health Service.
Speaking in New York, where he and May are attending the United Nations General Assembly, Johnson said May’s Brexit speech would unite the Conservative party.
“I am confident she will set out an exciting and positive vision for Brexit and it will be a speech around which everyone can unite.”
In the Guardian interview, Johnson said he didn’t view the Telegraph article as a challenge to May’s leadership, but was merely making his voice heard.
He said: “It is perfectly true that I had thought ‘res ipsa loquitur’ [the matter speaks for itself], just get on and do the job, but I was conscious that people wanted me to contribute to the public debate. One after the other people wrote articles ‘where oh where, why cannot we hear from Johnson?’ I then obliged them.
“So I contributed a small article to the pages of the Telegraph, and now everyone who had previously accused me of saying too little are now saying I am saying rather too much. People have got to make up their minds. What do they want ? What I want from my critics is some bloody consistency, the great inveterate jalopies.”


Contrary to all those breathless commentators on cable news, President Donald Trump’s maiden speech to the United Nations was not a rallying cry for war akin to President George W. Bush’s 2002 State of the Union address that hyped the Iraqi threat and was followed several months later by the U.S. invasion of Iraq. That was also the speech in which Bush infamously declared an “axis of evil” comprising North Korea, Iraq and Iran, all dangerous states developing weapons of mass destruction and supporting global terrorism.
Fifteen years later, those three countries have ended up on starkly different paths. Iraq is struggling but not collapsing, with a representative government confronting instability, ethnic conflict and the depredations of the Islamic State.
Iran, meanwhile, is free of its most economically crippling sanctions as a result of an agreement with the world’s major powers to neutralize an enrichment program perilously close to enabling nuclear weapons and to verify that shutdown with unprecedented on-site inspections by international experts. And North Korea, despite tighter and tighter international sanctions, now possesses an arsenal of nuclear weapons and has, or will soon have, the know-how to deliver those weapons on medium- and long-range missiles capable of striking not only Japan and much of Asia but also the continental United States.
In Tuesday’s address, Trump made an earnest effort to place Kim Jong Un and Ayatollah Khamenei in the pantheon of global villains. “If the righteous many do not confront the wicked few, then evil will triumph,” he declared. “When decent people and nations become bystanders to history, the forces of destruction only gather power and strength.” But these words could easily have been uttered by any of his predecessors, and not just George W. Bush. American presidents have often sought to turn world affairs into a morality play, with the United States cast as the hero. It doesn’t change the fact that very few, if any, serious observers believe the U.S. has realistic military options in Pyongyang or Tehran.
As for the screaming headlines about Trump’s threat to destroy North Korea, that comment was merely a somewhat blunter statement of U.S. declaratory policy going back decades. Many focused on the president’s childish “Rocket Man” nickname for Kim, and ignored the fine print: The elimination of North Korea will only take place if the U.S. were “forced to defend ourselves or our allies.”
That promise of assured destruction is nuclear deterrence 101. The other side must know that, if attacked, the United States will use overwhelming force in retaliation. This is the apocalyptic logic that kept the Soviet Union and the United States wary of war for four decades. It is also the reason why nuclear weapons may be a lot less useful than North Korea’s dictator seems to think.
Which is not to say that Trump advanced his policy on North Korea, or for that matter Iran. Normally, a U.S. president goes to the U.N. to convince world leaders of a gathering danger and tries to persuade them to join the U.S. effort to deal with that danger. Trump certainly took a novel approach: While alienating allies with over-the-top language and frightening friends with a Manichean division of the world into good and evil, most of what the president said seemed like a bad class in international relations led by a teacher who emphasizes the wrong words and syllables. Some White House officials must have thought it was a breakthrough to emphasize that states are sovereign. But for many years now Democratic and Republican administrations alike have been explaining to U.N. skeptics on Capitol Hill that the U.N. is not some separate entity but rather a group of nation-states who can achieve their common goals through collective action. It’s hardly the world government of the far right’s fever dreams.
America’s problem goes well beyond Trump, of course. During the Bush years, the wholesale scuttling of international treaties and the Iraq war took a big toll on goodwill toward Washington. But the Obama administration lost goodwill too, for the opposite reason: European and Asian leaders saw that Washington was stepping back from global leadership, dumping Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in Angela Merkel’s lap and leaving no one to deter Moscow from a dramatic return to the Middle East on behalf of Syria’s Bashar Assad.
If there was any goodwill toward the U.S. left, Trump has now emptied the account with his threat to withdraw from the Iran deal, which he ripped as “an embarrassment” and “one of the worst and most one-sided transactions the United States has ever entered into.” The U.N. hall was filled with individuals who participated personally in a dozen years of diplomacy related to Iran’s nuclear program. All of them believe the Iran accord is a major diplomatic achievement. The last thing they wanted to hear was more carping from a U.S. president who has not offered a better alternative.
Trump seems to lack any comprehension of the need to bring other countries around to the U.S. point of view. As much as he insisted that “America First” was just the way the world really works, Tuesday’s speech was a stark departure from seven decades of American presidents who worked to inspire and lead international alliances to meet new threats. The looks on the faces of Trump’s counterparts seemed to say it all: Few of his fellow world leaders have the trust and confidence in him that is necessary to follow his lead. While no policy was advanced today, U.S. international influence suffered another blow.
Correction: This article originally referred to “President George W. Bush’s 2002 U.N. address.” The “axis of evil” speech was in fact his 2002 State of the Union address.
James P. Rubin is a former assistant secretary of state in the Clinton administration and is a contributing editor for POLITICO Magazine.


HANOVER, Germany – Germany’s Free Democrats have a score to settle with Angela Merkel.
Rising from the ashes of the worst election result in the party’s history, the Free Democrats — also known as the liberals — are expected to stage a comeback in Sunday’s parliamentary election, and could end up in the familiar role of kingmaker.
If both parties perform slightly better than currently predicted on election night, the FDP, now polling fourth or fifth with about 9 percent, could give Merkel’s conservatives — currently on 36 percent support — just enough Bundestag seats to form a governing coalition.
However, the party’s leaders have little reason to make things easy for the chancellor, blamed by many of them for their humiliating exit from parliament in 2013 after four years as Merkel’s junior coalition partner. Many in the FDP feel they paid the price for failing to force the chancellor to accept the pro-business reforms they had promised to their voters when joining her coalition back in 2009.
“After the 2009 election, the party was primarily interested in getting [government] posts,” said Christian Dürr, a member of the FDP’s Präsidium (its 13-member inner circle). “Today, this is different.”
“Above all, we want to push through our own demands,” he told POLITICO. “That’s what’s driving us and if we don’t achieve this in coalition talks, they won’t end in a positive result.”
Under the charismatic leadership of 38-year-old Christian Lindner, the party has revived its fortunes by rebranding as an urban, pro-business alternative to the chancellor’s conservatives and their biggest rivals, the Social Democrats (SPD) led by Martin Schulz. Lindner has had some success with the message that after four years in a “grand coalition,” any distinction between Merkel’s party and the SDP has become blurred.
“When Frau Merkel and Herr Schulz faced each other in the TV debate, it was no duel — it was a job interview,” Lindner told a cheering audience in a packed theater in the center of Hanover last week. “Herr Schulz applied to become Frau Merkel’s next clerk.”
Lindner began his speech by taking off his jacket and tie “so that you can recognize me” — a light-hearted reference to the hundreds of billboards across Germany that show him in slick black-and-white portraits.
Speaking freely for over an hour in what resembled a TED talk more than a campaign speech, Lindner said his mission during the last four years had been to rebuild the party as a voice of the political center.
However, neither the hip setting of a run-down 1920s theater nor the youth of the audience — with the majority of listeners under 30 years old — could disguise the fact that some of his core policy demands situate the FDP firmly to the right of Merkel’s Christian Democrats.
Founded in 1948 to revive the liberal party tradition of pre-World War II Germany, the FDP has been part of six different German governments, spending more than four decades as junior coalition partner to either the conservatives or the Social Democrats.
Traditionally an advocate of privacy protection, the party argues for keeping the role of the state limited while supporting globalization and free markets; high-income entrepreneurs and self-employed professionals such as lawyers and doctors have long been the bedrock of FDP support.
“When it comes to migration policy, the FDP has never been as conservative as today under Lindner,” said a senior FDP official from the 2009-2013 administration, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Lindner says a precondition for taking the party into another coalition would be a commitment to toughen up rules on asylum in Germany and speed up deportations of people whose claims are rejected.
Speaking to POLITICO on the sidelines of the event in Hanover, the party leader said that on European policy, the red line was his party’s refusal to accept a common budget for the eurozone funded by taxes that currently go into national budgets, as mooted by French President Emmanuel Macron.
“We don’t begrudge Mr. Macron and all European partners their success,” Lindner said, “But [a eurozone budget] would be a sort of permanent fiscal equalization scheme and a transfer union that would endanger the future of Europe.”
The message the FDP has been sending out to Merkel’s conservatives over the last couple of weeks is that they’re generally willing to compromise in coalition talks, but when it comes to their red lines, it’s all or nothing this time.
“We don’t want to go into a coalition in which we have no say,” said FDP Präsidium member Dürr, adding that now all members of the leadership agree on that, whereas “this unity did not exist” in 2009.
Back then, leader Guido Westerwelle led his party to its best result in history, scoring almost 15 percent of the national vote, and he emerged from coalition talks with Merkel as Germany’s foreign minister.
The deal he struck with Merkel, however, dismissed many core liberal demands — above all, the FDP’s central campaign promise to bring down taxes significantly.
In the two years that followed, the FDP collapsed, losing members and plummeting in opinion polls. It didn’t help that the party replaced Westerwelle as party leader with then-Economy Minister Philipp Rösler in 2011.
“The leadership was constantly fighting with each other,” the former FDP government official said, “and Rösler failed to keep the party united.”
When the next election in 2013 came closer, “Merkel had become really annoyed by us,” the official said, “and her conservatives ended up campaigning heavily against the FDP.”
On election night in 2013, the FDP scored almost 10 percentage points less than four years earlier, failing for the first time in party history to clear the 5 percent hurdle to enter the Bundestag.
Shell-shocked, the FDP had to let hundreds of employees go, many of whom left for well-paid jobs in the private sector. One of them told POLITICO this week he was not willing to “to give up my open-ended work contract only to perhaps end up again with no job in four years.”
Other FDP officials say the number of people signaling their availability for new positions in parliament or government is skyrocketing.
After its years in the political wilderness, however, the FDP suffers from poor visibility in Germany, with half the respondents in a Forsa survey earlier this month saying they don’t even know party chief Lindner.
The vast majority of those who could end up in prime positions after the September 24 vote are newcomers to the political scene in Berlin, which could become a liability in coalition talks with Merkel’s conservatives, who have been in power for 12 years.
Meanwhile, speculation is running high on which senior FDP figures could be in the running for high-profile coalition posts.
Wolfgang Kubicki, a pugnacious 65-year-old lawyer from northern Germany and one of three deputy party chiefs, is expected to play a major role, according to conversations with party officials.
His 41-year-old co-deputy Katja Suding, a charismatic former PR adviser who has led the FDP’s parliamentary group in the Hamburg state parliament for six years, is said to have equally good prospects, while fewer officials expect the party’s third deputy chief, Marie-Agnes Strack-Zimmermann, from North Rhine-Westphalia, to play a major role.
When it comes to speculation about FDP officials moving from Brussels to Berlin, two names figure prominently: Alexander Graf Lambsdorff, the 50-year-old European Parliament vice president whom some in the party consider a potential foreign minister, and Michael Theurer, a 50-year-old economist and MEP.
Marco Buschmann, a 40-year-old longtime confidant of Lindner, is expected to be less visible but equally influential. He has been pulling strings behind the scenes as the party’s federal manager for three years, is currently involved in setting up the new FDP group in the Bundestag and could end up as the chief whip.
Another potential FDP minister if the liberals end up in government is Nicola Beer, a 47-year-old regional MP from Hesse who has been the FDP’s secretary-general since 2013.
Michael Link is one of the few people in the FDP’s current leadership who has direct experience in the Berlin Regierungsviertel (government district). He spent almost two decades in the Bundestag, where he worked as a staffer for 10 years before being elected as an MP in 2005.
In recent days, FDP officials have suggested the party should stake a claim to the finance ministry, although it is unclear whether Lindner or someone else would take the post, if it were available.
But other party officials are eager to avoid the impression that they are jumping the gun before the German people cast their votes on Sunday — or, as Dürr phrased it, “Don’t sell the fur before shooting the bear.”
If current polls prove correct, the FDP’s best chance of ending up in government with the conservatives is as part of a three-way coalition which would also include the Greens, a combination known as a “Jamaica coalition” because of the parties’ colors (black for the CDU, yellow for the FDP and green for the Greens).
That would mean sitting down to negotiate not just with Merkel’s Christian Democrats and their Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union, but also with another party with strong principles — making it even more difficult for the FDP to defend its red lines in coalition talks.
Party chief Lindner has not explicitly excluded a Jamaica coalition, though he has said he “can’t imagine it.” However, it is common practice among German party leaders to avoid going into the election talking about potential future partnerships, as they prefer to focus on what their party alone has to offer.
“I promise you that the FDP will only go into a government if we can truly make a difference,” Lindner told the audience in Hanover. “If we can’t make a difference then it is our responsibility to go into the opposition and demand what’s necessary from the opposition.”


BUDAPEST — A routine trip by European lawmakers to Hungary to make sure EU cash is being spent properly has become the latest source of tension between Budapest and Brussels.
Members of the European Parliament’s Budgetary Control Committee, which is charged with ensuring proper use of EU taxpayers’ money, are in Hungary this week to visit several projects funded by the bloc.
But their decision to visit a railway connecting two villages with links to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán angered the government, which accused the MEPs of seeking to interfere in Hungarian politics ahead of an election due in the spring.
“I find it particularly outrageous … that out of thousands of co-financed investments you happen to attempt to examine a project implemented in the own village of the Hungarian prime minister,” János Lázár, Orbán’s chief of staff, wrote to Ingeborg Grässle, the German MEP who chairs the parliamentary committee, last month.
When Grässle last led a fact-finding mission to Hungary, in 2011, the country’s national development ministry hosted a cocktail party in her delegation’s honor. Six years later, there were no party invitations, even though Grässle is from the same political family as Orbán (the European People’s Party).
On Tuesday morning, Grässle and eight other MEPs visited the Vál Valley Light Railway, just under an hour’s drive west of Budapest. The EU contributed €2 million (around 80 percent of the cost) to the 5.7 kilometer-long railway that connects the villages of Felcsút and Alcsútdoboz.
Felcsút (population 1,600) is where Orbán grew up and has a house, and is also home to a 3,500-seat soccer stadium. Alcsútdoboz has a population of around 1,400.
Critics of the Hungarian leader say the railway is purely a vanity project and is hardly ever used. The government says it’s a useful way to boost tourism.
As Grässle walked across fields to board the two-carriage train — which was brought out especially for the MEPs as it normally only runs in the afternoons in September — she stopped to take a picture of opposition activists holding a sign that read “Viktor Orbán became the richest Hungarian by stealing EU taxpayers’ money. The thief is Orbán, not the people of Hungary!”
The strong criticism of her visit attracted the attention not just of protesters but also of MEPs who hadn’t been planning to go on the trip.
“It raised the eyebrows of the some of the members [of the committee], and they said that there could be something fishy if the Hungarian authorities have a problem with us monitoring,” said one parliamentary staffer, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
The railway project was chosen because it’s “an issue which is in the Hungarian media, where the Hungarian media question the utility of the project, whether this was really well-spent EU money,” the staffer added.
The spat over the visit is the latest in a series of battles between Brussels and Budapest. The European Commission launched infringement proceedings against Hungary over the country’s law cracking down on foreign-funded NGOs. Hungary also refused to take part in a mandatory EU refugee relocation scheme, introduced laws targeting the Budapest-based Central European University, and sent a survey to citizens called “Let’s Stop Brussels!”
Within Hungary’s ruling Fidesz party, there are differing views of the delegation’s visit, which ends Wednesday.
“Some think the visit is a direct intervention in the election campaign to support the opposition’s allegations,” said a senior Fidesz official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. “But most of the Fidesz politicians I talked to think those people have simply overreacted.”
A spokesman for the Hungarian government declined to comment.
Hungary is one of the largest recipients of EU development funds. It was allocated €25 billion from the European Structural and Investment Funds program for the 2014-2020 period.
Any suggestion of misuse of that cash goes down badly with the Hungarian government. In January, Fidesz Vice President Szilárd Németh said in a television interview that Transparency International should be “swept out” of Hungary.
“Corruption is institutionalized in the Hungarian EU funds allocating system,” said Gábor Vágó, an anti-corruption activist singled out by Németh earlier this month as a security threat.
“There are several powerful groups” with ties to the ruling party that are benefiting from EU funds, said Vágó, adding that many EU-funded projects in Hungary contribute little or nothing to the country.
“There are at least two problems: one is overpricing,” said József Péter Martin, executive director of Transparency International Hungary, which claims that EU-financed projects in Hungary are valued at an average of 20-25 percent over the market price. “And the second is that there are some totally useless — or seemingly useless — investments.”
In a 112-page internal briefing document prepared for the delegation by the Parliament’s Policy Department for Budgetary Affairs, and seen by POLITICO, the connection between the Felcsút railway and Orbán is mentioned only in a footnote. However, the document does mention connections between projects on the delegation’s schedule and alleged corrupt practices by other Fidesz officials.
While much attention has centered on the delegation’s visit to high-profile projects such as the railway at Felcsút and Budapest’s troubled Metro 4 (whose financing was described as having “serious irregularities — fraud and possible corruption” by the EU’s anti-fraud office, OLAF), of greater significance to some was a meeting on Monday with Hungary’s prosecutor general, Péter Polt.
“In our opinion, the prosecutor general’s office is a captured institution,” said Miklós M. Merényi of watchdog K-Monitor, who met with the delegation this week. “In many cases, they don’t investigate allegations regarding EU funds,” he said.
Members of the parliamentary committee’s delegation were not impressed by Polt, who has served as prosecutor general since 2010 after an earlier stint between 2000 and 2006.
“I was a bit disappointed with his statement,” said a policy adviser who was present at the MEPs’ meeting with Polt. “The answers were vague and poor,” he said, adding that they had expected more precise details and specific answers to their questions.
While several delegation members said the visit’s role was mostly symbolic, members of the Hungarian opposition hope the trip will be an eye-opener for MEPs.
“Many MEPs are very skeptical about what we say about corruption” in Hungary, said Péter Niedermüller, a Hungarian opposition MEP who traveled with the committee and represents the Democratic Coalition, a center-left political party that is part of the Socialists and Democrats group in the European Parliament. Corruption “is the basis of the political system” in Hungary, he added.
As they travel around Hungary visiting EU-funded projects, MEPs said they had been surprised by the government and media scrutiny of what they thought was a routine fact-finding trip.
“At every meeting, you can feel the politicized character of the topic,” said Estonian Green MEP Indrek Tarand. “We try to find as many hard facts as we can.”


Adverts for a language school in Croatia depicting Melania Trump have been removed after the U.S. first lady’s lawyer threatened to take legal action.
The billboards for the Zagreb-based American Institute showed a picture of Trump with a microphone in front of an American flag next to the words: “Just imagine how far you can go with a little bit of English.” Trump’s lawyer demanded that the billboards be removed immediately, The Associated Press reported on Tuesday.
“I’m satisfied with the fact that the school admitted that they violated the law and that they are ready to remove the billboards and [Facebook] ads,” said lawyer Nataša Pirc-Musar. “We are still analyzing possible further legal steps.”
The language school had posted a photo of the ad campaign on their Facebook page last week, writing: “We entered the billboard game.” The post has since been taken down.
“We are very sorry that the billboards were misunderstood as something intended to mock the U.S. first lady,” said American Institute spokeswoman Ivis Burić. “It was meant to be something positive, to show her as a role model.”
Burić admitted though that the marketing campaign turned out to be “very successful” due to the publicity it received both nationally and internationally.

Trump is originally from Croatia’s neighbor, Slovenia, and her image has been used in her home country to promote cakes, underwear and tourism.
As well as English and Slovenian, the first lady also speaks German, French and Serbian.


Angela Merkel’s conservative bloc and the center-left Social Democrats (SPD) both suffered a small drop in support in recent days, according to a new opinion poll ahead of Sunday’s German general election.
The Insa poll published in Tuesday’s edition of the Bild newspaper showed Merkel’s CDU/CSU alliance would be by far the biggest group in the new parliament, with the support of 36 percent of voters. That score was down 0.5 percentage points on Insa’s previous survey a week earlier.
The SPD, currently junior partners in Merkel’s coalition government, scored 22 percent — down 1.5 points on the previous week.
The coalition partners’ combined score of 58 percent is nearly 10 percentage points down on the 67.2 percent they won in the last election in 2013.
With Merkel all but certain to be back in the chancellery for another four-year term, she could choose to reprise the so-called “grand coalition” with the SPD — although some SPD members, including Foreign Minister and former party leader Sigmar Gabriel, have said they are not keen on the idea.
Another possible alliance could be the so-called Jamaica coalition of the CDU/CSU, the liberal Free Democrats (FDP) and the Greens, together polling at 52 percent. The FDP, who in 2013 did not manage to pass the 5 percent threshold to enter the parliament, are polling at 9 percent. The Greens reached 7 percent, which was one percentage point higher than in the previous poll.
No coalition led by the SPD would reach a majority necessary to form a coalition, according to the poll.
The left-wing Die Linke party gained half a percentage point and now shares the third place with the far-right party Alternative for Germany (AfD) at 11 percent.


President Donald Trump condemned authoritarian regimes in harsh and Trumpian terms during his first United Nations speech, lashing out at North Korean leader Kim Jong Un as “Rocket Man,” lamenting Iran’s “pursuit of death and destruction,” and warning that major portions of the world are “going to hell.”
“The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea,” Trump said Tuesday in a major address before the U.N. General Assembly. “Rocket Man is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime.”
The president insisted that the U.S. is “ready, willing and able” but cautioned that “hopefully this will not be necessary.”
“That’s what the United Nations is all about. That’s what the United Nations is for,” he said. “Let’s see how they do. It is time for North Korea to realize that the denuclearization is its only acceptable future.”
Trump also singled out Iran as he called on “the righteous many” to “confront the wicked few” to prevent “evil” from prevailing.
“It is far past time for the nations of the world to confront another reckless regime, one that speaks openly of mass murder, vowing death to America, destruction to Israel and ruin for many leaders and nations in this room,” Trump said. “The Iranian government masks a corrupt dictatorship behind the false guise of a democracy.”
He accused the Iranian regime of turning a wealthy nation with a rich history into “an economically depleted rogue state, whose chief exports are violence, bloodshed and chaos.” He cast the people of Iran as “the longest suffering victims” of their leaders, whom he said would rather fund terrorism than invest in improving the Iranian people’s lives.
“We cannot let a murderous regime continue these destabilizing activities while building dangerous missiles, and we cannot abide by an agreement if it provides cover for the eventual destruction of a nuclear program,” Trump said, referring to the Obama-era agreement to curb Iran’s nuclear program.
Trump slammed the deal as “one of the worst and most one-sided transactions” in the history of America, calling it “an embarrassment of the United States.”
“I don’t think you’ve heard the last of it. Believe me,” he added. “It is time for the entire world to join us in demanding that Iran’s government end its pursuit of death and destruction.”
He also offered up a sweeping and dark statement about global affairs, declaring, “Major portions of the world are in conflict and some in fact are going to hell.”
Before calling out North Korea, Iran and Venezuela by name, Trump warned more broadly of “rogue regimes” during what he described as “a time of both immense promise and great peril.”
“Terrorists and extremists have gathered strength and spread to every region of the planet. Rogue regimes represented in this body not only support terrorists but threaten other nations and their own people with the most destructive weapons known to humanity,” Trump said. “Authority and authoritarian powers seek to collapse the values, the systems and alliances that prevented conflict and tilted the world toward freedom since World War II.”
The president touted his administration’s success but added that international criminal networks traffic drugs, weapons and people, and threaten America’s borders and menace its citizens with new technology.
“To put it simply,” he said, “we meet at a time of both immense promise and great peril. It is entirely up to us whether we lift the world to new heights or let it fall into a valley of disrepair.”


Liberal Democrat leader Vince Cable accused the British government of “entrusting the future” of the U.K. to Donald Trump — “a president who is volatile, dangerous and an apologist for religious and racial hatred.”
Speaking at his party’s conference in Bournemouth on Tuesday, Cable called Trump the “giant tweeter who lives in a white house far away and who flies across the ocean to rescue us from the wicked gnomes of Europe,” before reiterating the Lib Dems’ call to cancel Trump’s state visit to the U.K.
Cable also blamed Labour and the Conservatives for leaving the U.K. weaker after they had been in power and said he rued the Lib Dems’ disastrous stint in government as part of a coalition with the Tories from 2010-2015. “For many voters, we still have to scrub ourselves hard to get rid of the smell of clearing up other people’s mess,” Cable said.
He called Brexit a “product of a fraudulent and frivolous campaign led by two groups of silly public school boys reliving their dormitory fights” and referred to Prime Minister Theresa May as a “headteacher barricaded in her office” while a riot goes on in the school.
Cable said the government was incapable of managing the Brexit negotiations, saying the divorce is “being managed by people who would struggle to get their heads around a toddler’s lego set.”
The veteran politician, who took over the party leadership after the June election when he won back his seat in parliament, reiterated the Lib Dems’ position as “the party of Remain,” calling on Theresa May to declare a “right to stay” for the 3 million EU citizens currently residing in the U.K. He also repeated the Lib Dems’ call for a referendum on a final Brexit deal.
“We will be denounced as traitors and saboteurs,” Cable said, “but if the definition of sabotage is fighting to protect British jobs, public services, the environment and civil liberties, then I am a proud saboteur.”


A military helicopter accidentally fired on a group of spectators during a military exercise, Russian news portal 66.ru reported Tuesday.
A undated video shows two helicopters shooting missiles toward bystanders. There are contradictory reports about casualties. The 66.ru report quoted a military source who said three people were injured, but a Russian military spokesperson said there were no injuries.
“The targeting system of one of the helicopters made an erroneous target,” the military’s statement said. “As a result, an unguided rocket hit one of the trucks without any people in it.”
The helicopter drill was part of Zapad, a large-scale joint military exercise with Belarus taking place close to Russia’s border with Estonia. According to the Guardian, the exercises involve 12,700 military personnel.
Russian President Vladimir Putin attended the exercises on Monday. Russian officials said the video was taken before Putin’s visit.



Former Conservative Chancellor Ken Clarke accused Boris Johnson of exploiting a weak prime minister and “self-publicizing,” after the British foreign secretary published a 4,000-word missive on Brexit over the weekend.
“Personal publicity and campaigning by the foreign secretary is an irrelevant nuisance,” Clarke told the BBC’s Today Program on Tuesday.
“If he wants to be foreign secretary, he should make actually some serious contributions on wider foreign policy,” said Clarke, an MP since 1970 and the British parliament’s longest-serving member.
Disagreements, Clarke said, are sorted out by “talking to the prime minister privately. You don’t put self-publicizing articles in the most Euroskeptic newspaper you can think of [the Telegraph] that’s read by most of the people who will vote in the leadership election.”
Clarke also blamed Boris for “taking advantage” of Prime Minister Theresa May’s weakened position in government after she lost the Conservatives’ parliamentary majority in the June 8 election.
“[Johnson] knows perfectly well that normally a foreign secretary would be sacked instantly for doing that,” Clarke said. “[May], unfortunately after the general election, is not in a position easily to sack him and he should stop exploiting it.”
“In any normal circumstances he should have been sacked the day after,” Clarke added.
Clarke, a prominent Remainer and the only Tory who voted against triggering Article 50, also dismissed Boris’ optimistic claims about Brexit. “If you jump off a cliff and spread out your arms you’ll find that you’re flying in the bright blue yonder. That is not a policy.”
Johnson’s claims about a smooth, lucrative Brexit deal are “simplistic” and “dishonest,” Clarked added.
The notion that the U.K. could save £350 million a week from halting its payments to the EU — a claim plastered on Vote Leave campaign buses during the referendum and repeated by Johnson — was debunked by David Norgrove, the head of the national statistics agency.
A Labour MP asked a parliamentary committee to launch an inquiry into the claim and bring both men in to give evidence, the Guardian reported Tuesday.


As Ankara-Berlin relations continue to nosedive, Germany’s front pages focused on Turkey summoning the German ambassador to Ankara. While the Turkish government did not give a reason for the summons, Der Spiegel reported it was because of a vote in the German parliament on declaring the mass killings of Armenians in Ottoman Turkey during World War I a genocide, a move strongly opposed by Ankara. “Turkey provokes Germany in the election campaign’s final stretch,” wrote Die Welt. In other news, Süddeutsche Zeitung reported on a new family law that would grant more rights to divorced fathers, while Frankfurter Allgemeine led with senior SPD official and German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel criticizing the ruling CDU/CSU for its refugee policy.


The British press focused on the continuing fallout between Prime Minister Theresa May and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, after Johnson published a 4,000-word treatise on Brexit that many saw as an attempt to undermine the PM. The Times led with “May tries to rein in Johnson before keynote Brexit speech,” referring to a speech May is expected to give September 22 in Florence. “May issues rebuke to Johnson and tightens grip on Brexit talks,” wrote the Financial Times. The i simply said: “May vs Boris: PM takes back control.” The Guardian led with: “‘Boris is Boris’: May tried to regain control over Brexit.” Other papers focused on Ryanair’s move to cancel dozens of flights, leaving passengers stranded. “Flightmare,” wrote the Daily Mail.




Le Monde published an interview with Economy Minister Bruno Le Maire and Public Action and Accounts Minister Gérald Darmanin on its front page. It also published an investigative report on “how the Russians maintain order in Syria.” Le Figaro led with a government decision to freeze grand rail and road projects (a move the right-leaning paper welcomed.) “The shock treatment by the government,” was Le Parisien’s headline, suggesting housing and employment will both endure cuts in next year’s budget.



The battle over Catalonia rages as the October 1 date for the scheduled independence referendum — still unsanctioned by the national government — nears. ABC, which is against the referendum, reported: “An independent Catalonia would not be able to pay pensions.” El Mundo reported the Catalan independence movement is harassing “mayors of the law,” referring to officials who are against the referendum. Pro-independence paper El Punt Avui led with “Abuse of law,” reporting on procedural errors during hearings for mayors charged with supporting the referendum.



 


Angela Merkel is cruising toward another term as chancellor, but the final days of Germany’s election campaign are anything but dull.
With just a few days to go, it’s still far from clear which coalition will emerge from Sunday’s parliamentary election. The makeup of that coalition will determine the personalities and policies at the heart of the EU’s most important government for the next four years.
Also at stake is whether the Social Democrats (SPD) will follow their comrades on the center left across the Continent into the doldrums; Germany’s international reputation, which will be tarnished if the far right scores well; and the fate of smaller parties that could end up with plum jobs in government or face four years on the margins.
Here are five things to watch in the final stretch of the campaign, on election day and in the days that follow:
The Social Democrats’ score in opinion polls has been up and down of late, from 20 percent to 23 percent. Three percentage points wouldn’t normally matter. This time they do.
The SPD got 23 percent of the votes in 2009 when Frank-Walter Steinmeier was Merkel’s rival, and the party went into opposition.
It scored slightly better in 2013, with 25.7 percent of the votes. However, Merkel launched coalition talks with the Greens, who declined to join her in government. The SPD was waiting in the wings and became the coalition partner.
Anything above 23 percent would make it easier to convince the party base that the Social Democrats should enter a grand coalition again rather than be in opposition. (As former party leader Franz Müntefering once said: “Opposition is crap.”)
Any result below 23 percent would strengthen the argument that serving under Merkel is the ultimate way to make the SPD insignificant.
Pollsters don’t have much experience with Alternative for Germany (AfD) supporters on a national level. Are people scared to admit they’re voting for the far right? If so, are the adjustments the pollsters are making sufficient?
Polls suggest the AfD will become the third largest party in the next Bundestag, with around 10 to 12 percent of the votes. The better they do, the less likely a two-party coalition between Merkel’s CDU and either the Free Democrats or the Greens becomes.
That means a three-party agreement (four if you include the Christian Social Union, the Bavarian sister party of Merkel’s Christian Democrats) — or another grand coalition with the SPD. To reach a satisfactory outcome could take a long time.
The far-right party finishing third would also be a wake-up call for the establishment and show that the AfD and their supporters cannot be ignored.
All polls suggest that the liberal Free Democrats (FDP) will be back in the Bundestag after four years in the political wilderness.
The party’s raison d’être is to be a coalition partner; they’ve worked with both the SPD and CDU in the past, but the last time didn’t work out so well. After propping up a Merkel government from 2009-2013, they were savaged in the polls and didn’t get over the 5 percent threshold required to enter the Bundestag.
Expect an internal debate on the best strategy after they get back in — and expect them to be a difficult partner in any coalition talks. Party leader Christian Lindner has made it clear that he wants the powerful finance ministry for his party. To meet that demand would mean moving incumbent Wolfgang Schäuble to another role. It would also cause concern among European partners such as France.
Unless the results mean there’s only one obvious choice of coalition partner, don’t expect party leaders to engage in even pre-coalition talks straight away.
There’s another election coming: On October 15, Lower Saxony will elect a regional parliament. Not much is likely to happen before then, particularly if the CDU and SPD decide to go for another grand coalition. You can’t schmooze in Berlin while you’re fighting in Hanover.
And there’s reason to fight: The Lower Saxony coalition of Social Democrats and Greens fell apart after just one MP left the Greens to join the CDU.
Merkel’s main opposition during the refugee crisis came from inside her own camp. Don’t expect that chapter to be closed after the election.
The Christian Social Union (CSU) is a political powerhouse that has run Bavaria for most of its post-war history without the need for a coalition partner. The party considers the five years from 2008 that it needed support from the liberals to be an aberration.
For Merkel, getting a Germany-wide result of 35 percent is good enough — it means no government could be formed without the CDU. But the CSU wants a bigger score in Bavaria next year to secure an absolute majority. That means it will still be in campaign mode, even after the national election.


ISTANBUL — Are forced disappearances making a comeback in Turkey? That’s the question opposition politicians and human rights activists are asking following a spate of mysterious kidnappings.
Turkey’s government, they say, must investigate the cases of up to 12 missing men and prove that state agents played no role in their abductions.
One such case is that of Cemil Koçak, an agricultural engineer who was forced into a van in front of his eight-year-old son in June.
The two were driving home when another vehicle hit their car on a busy street in Turkey’s capital Ankara. Assuming they had gotten into an accident, Koçak told his son to stay seated and got out to assess the damage.
His wife, Özgül Koçak, recounted what their son witnessed: “Then, a dark gray transporter quickly approached my husband and three people from that transporter forcibly took my husband into the vehicle,” she said.
For weeks after the abduction, her son had trouble sleeping, she added: “He was falling out of bed due to nightmares.” Koçak’s family has not seen him since.
In a recent Human Rights Watch report, the organization’s Europe and Central Asia director, Hugh Williamson, said there were “credible grounds” to believe Koçak and at least three other men had been forcibly disappeared by government agents. Opposition politicians put the number at eight, and Turkey’s Human Rights Association, an independent NGO, said it had documented 10 cases as of last May. Another two abductions are alleged to have happened in June. All but one of the men remain missing.
The four cases identified by Human Rights Watch as possible forced disappearances share two things in common: The missing men all lost their jobs during the state of emergency that was declared after last year’s failed coup; and each has at least a tenuous link to the movement led by the exiled cleric Fethullah Gülen, whom Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan accuses of trying to overthrow him.
The family members of several abductees have taken their cases to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), which is familiar with applicants accusing Turkey of abducting their husbands and sons. In the 1990s, at the height of the state’s brutal war against Kurdish guerrillas, security forces disappeared hundreds of civilians, most of them Kurds.
Often, they were tortured. Some victims’ bodies were found eventually; in many cases, their fate remains unknown to this day. Over the years, the ECHR found the Turkish state responsible in numerous cases.
Under Erdoğan, the practice ceased entirely. Until, perhaps, now.
A person is considered forcibly disappeared, according to a U.N. definition, if they are deprived of their freedom by someone acting on behalf or with the consent of the state, which then denies or withholds knowledge of their whereabouts.
There is no hard evidence of the Turkish state’s involvement in the recently documented disappearances, and the identities of the kidnappers remain a mystery. But the case of Önder Asan, the one man to have reappeared after his abduction, suggests that Turkish authorities may at least tolerate such tactics if it nets them a suspect.
Asan, a former teacher living in Ankara, was kidnapped in April. A witness described to state prosecutors how a group of unidentified men, who claimed they were police officers, dragged Asan out of a taxi and bundled him into a black Volkswagen van.
Six weeks passed without news of him until his family located him in a police station. Asan told his lawyer that before being transferred to official custody, he had been tortured and interrogated in an unknown place. A few days after his reappearance, he was jailed on terror charges.
Turkey has declared Gülen’s movement a terror group and anyone with the slightest connection to the movement can be charged with membership of a terror organization; Asan had taught philosophy at a private college linked to Gülen that was shut down by emergency decree.
Asan’s case is the one that has done the most to raise fears that forced disappearances have returned, because his reappearance in custody suggests a link to the state. The other cases are considered potential forced disappearances largely because of their similarities to Asan’s.
The other abductees profiled by Human Rights Watch also lost their jobs due to decrees. Koçak was dismissed from the ministry of agriculture last September. His children had attended a private school with connections to the movement; he’d paid the tuition fees via a Gülen-linked bank.
The two others — Turgut Çapan and Mustafa Özben — worked at Ankara’s Turgut Özal University, an institution the Turkish government closed down a week after the coup attempt, saying it was linked to Gülen. Çapan was an acquaintance of Asan’s, and was kidnapped the day before Asan.
The kidnappings all took place during daytime, and the perpetrators were apparently unconcerned about being seen.
Mustafa Özben’s wife, Emine, told POLITICO that according to witnesses, only one of the three men who abducted him had worn a mask, and that the area had been busy: “It was the time when students leave school,” she said.
Witnesses to the abductions of Özben and Koçak both describe the men being forced into a black or dark-colored Volkswagen transporter van, the same model of vehicle seen at the scene of Asan’s abduction. Security footage of the van, captured by nearby cameras, supports their testimony.
With the exception of ruling party MP Mustafa Yeneroglu, government officials have not publicly commented on the abductions. Yeneroglu, head of the parliamentary human rights committee, told the BBC’s Turkish service that the committee had launched an investigation.
He added that the issue should not be politicized, saying: “Human rights issues are instrumentalized by different groups.”
Yeneroglu did not respond to requests for comment. Several other state officials and ruling party MPs contacted by POLITICO either did not reply or suggested alternative officials to contact, none of whom responded to questions. However, high-ranking ministers have repeatedly dismissed allegations of torture as untrue.
The Human Rights Association is monitoring several of the cases. Its secretary-general, Osman Işçi, said that it was too early to assess whether the authorities’ attempts to investigate the abductions were sufficient.
“I cannot say that there is no effective investigation in this case, but what we know is: There is a deterioration of human rights at a general level and unfortunately there is no effective investigation into torture and mistreatment allegations,” Işçi said.
Several families of the missing men have complained that the authorities did not appear interested in solving the cases. After Cemil Koçak was abducted, his wife Özgül Koçak reported the incident to the police and set about collecting evidence, including surveillance footage, which appeared to show her husband being followed by several cars.
Özgül said the police initially ignored much of the evidence she collected and suggested to her that her husband had faked his abduction.
The family of Murat Okumuş, an accountant who was abducted in June, also told of difficulties in getting the police to conduct a thorough investigation. Unlike most abductees, Okumuş did not live in Ankara, but in Izmir, a coastal city and fiercely secular opposition stronghold.
He had worked in the accounting department of a local hospital connected to the Gülen movement until it was shut down by decree last year. In the days before his abduction, he told his father that he thought he was being followed.
In the late afternoon on June 16 — a day after Koçak’s abduction in Ankara — two white cars approached Okumuş in a busy area of Izmir. Six people emerged to grab him. A close relative who asked to remain anonymous said there was surveillance footage of the incident.
“Two guys grabbed his arms, two others held his feet and lifted him up. They held his mouth shut so he couldn’t scream,” the relative said. Bystanders ran over, the relative added, but the kidnappers told them that they were police officers.
They bundled Okumuş into a car and drove off. Witnesses later told the family that uniformed officers who were called to the scene said that the kidnappers belonged to the “anti-terror department.”
As the Okumuş family tells it, the local police appeared reluctant to investigate. Officers initially refused to let the family file a missing person’s report, relenting only after their lawyer insisted. A secrecy order was slapped on the case. After the family began their own investigation, counterterrorism officers reprimanded them for doing so.
Emine Özben also began her own investigation after she felt the police was not taking her seriously. Officers suggested she contact a reality television show that tries to find estranged husbands, she said.
The police, she added, had also tried to intimidate her after she began speaking publicly about her husband’s abduction. She now hopes that her ECHR application will force the government to investigate.
She has yet to tell her three young children why their father is missing. “They cry a lot because of what happened,” she said. “Our lives have turned into a nightmare.”


Jeremy Corbyn will propose a sweeping overhaul of the U.K. Labour rulebook Tuesday in a bid to remake the party in his image, according to senior figures familiar with the plans.
The Labour leader will present his proposals at a meeting of the party’s ruling National Executive Committee at midday, giving grassroots members more power while limiting MPs’ control over future leadership elections, according to two officials, one from a union and one close to Corbyn, who spoke to POLITICO on condition of anonymity.
Corbyn will propose a “broad review into democracy and participation” in the party — code for limiting the power of MPs in favor of ordinary members, the two officials said.
The review will take in a host of controversial proposals from the left of the party, which do not yet have enough support to be approved by the National Executive Committee, the union official said. By putting all the proposals together in a review, Corbyn avoids potentially damaging defeats at the hands of MPs, while gaining more time to take control of the party’s ruling body and passing a comprehensive reform package down the line.
The move is part of a wider power play by the Labour leader to use the momentum from his unexpectedly good general election result in June to wrestle control of the party from opponents in parliament and the more centrist trades unions that have acted as a check on his ambitions.
If Corbyn is successful in overhauling the party, it will likely kill off moves by moderates who remain opposed to his leadership and want to return Labour to the pro-market policies pursued by Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.
According to the two well-placed officials, his proposed review will consider major changes to the party’s structure, including reducing the threshold needed to get on future leadership ballots from 15 percent of MPs to 5 percent — which would all-but guarantee the left of the party would always have a candidate in future leadership contests.
The review will also consider more dramatic changes to leadership voting. Proposals have been put forward to stop “affiliated” and “registered” Labour Party supporters having a vote in leadership elections. Instead, some purists want only full members — i.e. not affiliated union members or short-term supporters — to have a say under “one member one vote” rules.
The second and third elements in the Corbyn plan, set to be voted on by the National Executive Committee on Tuesday, would introduce interim measures to “democratize” the party while the review is being carried out.
The first interim measure would see the threshold for getting onto the leadership ballot paper dropped from 15 percent to 10 percent. This is seen as a compromise deal to assuage the left of the party while the review is being carried out.
The second proposal is to increase the representation of ordinary party members and trades unions on the National Executive Committee. Corbyn will propose three new members from constituency Labour parties and one more from the unions. The move will help tip the balance of power on the rulemaking body in his favor.
A Labour official close to Corbyn said: “These proposals show that Jeremy is enhancing democracy and members’ participation in the party. Our mass membership is full of the ideas, energy and skills we need to win elections to form a government for the many not the few — and these changes will help our membership deliver that goal.”
A union official who spoke to POLITICO on condition of anonymity said the plan would be welcomed by the left of the Labour Party, but they would still be disappointed that Corbyn had not managed to go further.
“They will be happy, it’s good for them, but it’s not as good as they wanted. It’s a compromise.”
All of the proposals need to be voted on by the NEC on Tuesday before being agreed by the Labour Party conference, which starts in Brighton Sunday.


SYDNEY — For decades, republicans Down Under have been betting on a funeral.
Even the most avowed anti-monarchists in Australia and New Zealand long acknowledged, at least privately, that cutting ties with Britain was on hold as long as Queen Elizabeth II was alive.
But the world’s most macabre waiting game may be coming to an end — as the U.K.’s decision to leave the European Union gives republicans in the two countries reason to hope for a Brexit of their own.
In New Zealand, Labour Party leader Jacinda Ardern — neck-and-neck in the race to become the country’s prime minister after its September 23 election — declared earlier this month she was in favor of cutting ties with the monarchy and called for a debate on getting rid of Elizabeth as head of state.
“I am a republican,” she told the Times. “It’s certainly not about my view of the monarchy but my view of New Zealand’s place in the world and carving out our own ­future. So that is what drives my sentiment.”
Australia’s current prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, a former chair of the Australian Republican Movement, has said he won’t push for a referendum during the queen’s lifetime, but opposition leader Bill Shorten, on track to win a federal election due between late 2018 and early 2019, in July promised to hold a vote during his first term in office. All of Australia’s state and territory leaders also back a republic.
“We could wait for the queen to die, and as the world gathers to say farewell, who slips out the back? Australia,” said Peter FitzSimons, the chairman of the Australian Republican Movement, capturing the growing mood in the country. “Or we could do this while the queen’s still young enough to hand us the keys. We could rise as one, give her a thunderous standing ovation, and say: ‘Your majesty, thank you, we will take it from here.'”
While Australians voted to remain a constitutional monarchy in a 1999 referendum, most now support a republic.
In a poll conducted in August by Newspoll for newspaper the Australian, 51 percent wanted an Australian head of state, 38 percent backed the monarchy and 11 percent were undecided. In the event Prince Charles becomes king, 55 percent said they wanted a republic.
One development that’s tipped things in favor of republicans: Brexit.
The U.K.’s vote to leave the EU whipped up anti-monarchist sentiment; in the first three days after the Brexit vote last June, the Australian Republican Movement reported a 20-fold increase in membership requests. The upward trend has continued, said FitzSimons, an Australian writer, media personality and ex-rugby player.
“Membership has increased, and so have donations,” he said. “You have this ludicrous situation where Great Britain is becoming Little Britain. I note with Brexit there’s some possibility that Scotland will go their own way … Well, it’s one thing to be aligned with Great Britain, but with Little Britain? Would it not be pathetic for Australia to be clinging to the ankles of what’s left?”
Queen Elizabeth II is the head of state in the constitutional monarchy of Australia. Though the role is largely symbolic, her representative, the governor general, has “reserve” powers to appoint prime ministers when elections result in hung parliaments, to dismiss the country’s leader in the event of a “no confidence” vote, and to refuse to dissolve the House of Representatives against ministerial advice. These powers have been used four times, most controversially and recently in 1975, when Governor General Sir John Kerr fired Prime Minister Gough Whitlam.
Monarchists in Australia and New Zealand are not ready to give up the fight. They argue the younger generation of royals, with their growing families and goodwill trips Down Under, have boosted support for the status quo and soothed the prospect of King Charles.
Philip Benwell, the national chairman of the Australian Monarchists’ League, acknowledged support for a republic is likely to go up if Charles takes the throne, but said a referendum “would still fail, because people would realize that it’s the system that matters, not necessarily the person that is the head of state.”
Benwell added: “There is tremendous interest and confidence in the younger royals, and they have established a close rapport with the Australian people.”
Likewise, Sean Palmer, chairman of Monarchy NZ, said “personal popularity is always an element” when it comes to support for the monarchy.
“The queen’s popularity has been significant, but these things ebb and flow,” Palmer said. “Sure, people think the queen is doing a wonderful job, and they may be asking whether the next sovereign will do a wonderful job. But when the next sovereign is on the throne, people may say ‘well, we’re looking forward to William and George.'”
Republicans counter that being a fan of the young royals does not equate to support for a monarchy.
Australia’s republican prime minister made the point in a tweet after a meeting with the queen in July. “Although I am a republican, I am also an Elizabethan,” he wrote.
“Following the royal family and delighting in Prince George having his first day of school — that’s possible while also thinking Australia should be a republic,” FitzSimons said.

Across the Tasman Sea in New Zealand, Labour leader Ardern acknowledged the queen’s popularity would make for a contentious debate, but said that wasn’t a reason not to have one. “No matter when you have the conversation, there’s a knock-on effect,” she said. “There’s a much-loved monarch who will be affected by that decision,” she said.
Like its Australian sister movement, New Zealand republicans are sick of being in a holding pattern.
“We think it’s morbid to say we’re going to wait till someone dies,” said Savage (who has one name), the chair of the New Zealand Republic group. “Wouldn’t it be better to make the change and say farewell, rather than wait for her to either become infirm or die?”


President Donald Trump said Monday that he is considering commemorating the Fourth of July next year with a military parade on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C.
Trump floated the French Bastille Day-inspired proposal as he spoke to reporters alongside President Emmanuel Macron ahead of a bilateral meeting at the Lotte New York Palace Hotel.
Trump celebrated the 100th anniversary of U.S. entry into World War I on Bastille Day in Paris in July, watching thousands of French and American troops march down the Champs-Elysées during the two-hour parade, which included armored personnel carriers, tanks, missile launchers and dozens of military planes and helicopters.
The military parade was “I think a tremendous thing for France and for the spirit of France,” Trump said Monday. “And people don’t know what great warriors they are in France, but when you see that and you see all the victories, it was a tremendous thing.”
“And, to a large extent, because of what I witnessed, we may do something like that on July Fourth in Washington down Pennsylvania Avenue, if I have your approval,” Trump said, gesturing toward Macron as the two men laughed and smiled. “I don’t know. We’re gonna have to try and top it, but we had a lot of planes going over and a lot of military might, and it was really a beautiful thing to see.”
Trump marveled at the French parade, especially its “representatives from different wars and different uniforms.”
“It was really so well done. But I came back and one of my early calls were, ‘I think we’re gonna have to start looking at that ourselves,’” Trump said. “So we’re actually thinking about Fourth of July, Pennsylvania Avenue, having a really great parade to show our military strength.”
He said that the U.S. is spending $700 billion more than ever before on its military, likely alluding to a $700 billion defense policy bill in the Senate, and quipped that it’s a boon for France “because we’re friends.”
“We’re looking forward to doing that,” he said of holding the potential military parade. “I’m speaking with [chief of staff] General [John] Kelly and with all of the people involved, and we’ll see if it we can do it this year. But we certainly will be beginning to do that.”


Florian Philippot, vice president of France’s far-right National Front, hit back Monday after his choice of food in a Strasbourg restaurant was dubbed “poisonous” for the party, local media reported.
A party official posted a picture of Philippot dining with other FN members at a North African restaurant last week, having “the best couscous of Strasbourg.”
This angered FN supporters on social media, who said the dish was “unpatriotic” and didn’t fit with the image of the party, which pushes an anti-immigrant line.
Many called upon Philippot to eat choucroute or another French specialty rather than couscous. But Philippot tweeted Monday that he would recommend the “excellent” restaurant.


The National Front is doing badly in the opinion polls, months after the presidential and legislative elections.
Support for party leader Marine Le Pen is also down as the French look to the far-left to provide the main opposition to President Emmanuel Macron.


LONDON — There’s a curious omission from the U.K. government’s European Union (Withdrawal) Bill: a date.
Throughout the 66-page bill, which converts all EU law into U.K. law while at the same time repealing the legislation that took Britain into the bloc in 1972, the date of withdrawal is referred to simply as “exit day.”
“Exit day” is mentioned 128 times in the bill — but not once is the date March 29, 2019 set down in writing. That is the end date of the two-year Article 50 process that Theresa May set in motion earlier this year, and barring an unlikely sequence of events, the day on which the U.K. will no longer be a member of the bloc.
The omission of a date has raised eyebrows in Westminster among both Euroskeptics smelling betrayal and soft Brexiteers in the Labour Party who fear it gives the government too much power to mess with the transition out of the EU.
In the bill, exit day is defined simply as the day designated as such by the government, or “where a Minister of the Crown appoints a time as well as a day as exit day.”
The process is clarified later in the bill: Exit day will be set down in legislation as a so-called statutory instrument, which does not need a full vote in the House of Commons but in a smaller committee in which the government has a majority.
Critics of the government are beginning to wonder aloud why ministers are so reluctant to name a date — after all it’s there in black-and-white in European law: Two years after the Article 50 withdrawal notice is handed in.
Unless there is a unanimous agreement to extend the negotiating process, Britain will leave the European Union on March 29, 2019, whether it is written in the bill or not.
Or will it?
Here are four reasons why the lack of a date matters  — and one why it probably does not.
Public mood can shift, often dramatically and at short notice — just look at June’s general election.
If there’s no deal in 2019 and a growing demand from the country not to leave without an agreement, Britain could — theoretically at least — try to withdraw its Article 50 notification.
The legal question of whether this is possible has not been settled — no country had triggered Article 50 before, let alone rescinded it. It’s possible that the EU27 could refuse to accept the withdrawal, at which point the case would be heard by the European Court of Justice, the EU’s top court. According to one former government lawyer who spoke to POLITICO on condition of anonymity, if the EU27 unanimously accepted the withdrawal of the Article 50 notification then Britain could remain in the EU.
At this point, the fact that there is no date in the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill means the measures in what would by then be an act of parliament would not have come into force. The law would be in legal limbo, on the statute book ready to be triggered at any moment by the government while Britain remains in the EU.
Exit day means leaving the European Union, and it also means leaving the institutions of the EU. But staying within one or more of them may be a necessary condition of any “soft” transition period. Chief among those is the European Court of Justice — the arbiter of trade disputes in Europe.
Shadow Brexit Secretary Keir Starmer is particularly exercised about this point. He told MPs last week that the exact date of exit day was “crucially important” because it will be the day the European Court of Justice is “extinguished” in U.K. law.
Without the ECJ, Starmer said, the U.K. might not be able to achieve a transitional deal on the terms it is looking for.
“If exit day is in March 2019, it is difficult to see how we could transition on terms similar to those we are now on,” Starmer said. “Control over exit day is therefore hugely important. Who will have that control? This will be in the sole power of a minister.”
Otherwise, it might be necessary to repeal the EU (Withdrawal) Bill and bring it back in a different form.
There could be multiple exit days, according to Starmer and the former government lawyer.
In the Commons, Starmer raised this point directly. “Members might think I am joking, but someone who drafted the bill has thought of that, and it is conceivable that there could be multiple exit days, all chosen by a minister and not by parliament.”
In other words, Britain could leave the European Court of Justice at a different date to other elements of the European Union. It would be Brexit by stages.
This would be a purely domestic matter — Britain would no longer be a member of the European Union, but it would be accepting the authority of some of its institutions.
If the bill is passed in its current form, it will be up to the government to decide when European Union law ceases to apply in the U.K. “Anyone simply passing this bill must be prepared to be a spectator on the question of what the transitional measures should be and how they operate,” Starmer said.
His argument is that by putting the exit date in the hands of ministers, it effectively also gives them the power to decide the point at which ECJ jurisdiction no longer applies in the U.K. That is significant because the ECJ’s power over the U.K. could be crucial in any transitional deal. Critics argue that by removing the date from parliamentary scrutiny, the government is preventing MPs from having full scrutiny over that too.
The House of Lords select committee on the constitution raised similar concerns. “We are concerned that the  power to define ‘exit day’ — a matter that is pivotal to the operation of the bill — is unduly broad in its scope and flexibility, and that it is not subject to any parliamentary scrutiny procedure.”
In other words — the bill takes back control and gives it to the government.
Forget all of the above, insist government ministers and insiders when asked what is going on. It is simply an insurance against the unforeseen. Brexit is a train that has left the station and the destination is set. Unless there is a dramatic change of political reality, the train cannot be stopped.
What government lawyers and ministers have in mind, above all, is a last-minute delay in the negotiations, which will mean a little bit more time is needed.
A potentially more serious issue would be if an exit agreement — particularly the transitional deal — were resisted by one of the regional bodies in the EU over claims that it is a treaty and needs to be ratified just like a free-trade agreement.
This occurred in 2016, when Belgium’s Walloon parliament rejected the EU’s trade deal with Canada and threatened to kill it. In this nightmare scenario, the U.K.-EU deal could be held up in the European Court of Justice beyond March 29, 2019.


Jean-Claude Juncker and Angela Merkel praised Wolfgang Schäuble Monday as a passionate European as the German finance minister celebrated his 75th birthday.
Schäuble was first elected to the Bundestag in 1972, making him its longest-serving member. He is running for another term in Germany’s parliamentary election on Sunday.
At a reception for some 700 guests in Schäuble’s constituency of Offenburg in southwest Germany, European Commission President Juncker said he was not sure how long he had known Schäuble but joked it had been “hundreds of years.”
“We are a dream couple in the sense that when he receives an award, I’ll be the one giving the speech, and when I receive an award or prize, he’ll be giving the speech,” Juncker quipped.
On a serious note, he declared: “Wolfgang, you’ve made the world a better place, and not many people can say that of themselves.”
Merkel spoke of Schäuble as someone with a “burning passion for Europe inside, unlike any other.” Juncker highlighted Schäuble’s work for both Germany and Europe, saying that “Europe owes the German finance minister a lot.”
Schäuble became Merkel’s finance minister in 2009 at the height of the global financial crisis and is seen in much of Europe as a symbol of German-driven EU austerity measures. At home, he is one of Germany’s most popular politicians.
Despite his high standing among voters and in Merkel’s Christian Democrats, Schäuble’s future as finance minister is uncertain. A coalition partner may demand the finance ministry as a price for joining a government led by Merkel’s conservative bloc, which is all but certain to come first on Sunday. The liberal Free Democrats have already expressed an interest in leading the powerful ministry.
Schäuble himself made a plea for European unity in his speech at Monday’s reception. “History teaches us that we’ll only have a good future if we keep Europe together — all of Europe,” he said.


OTTAWA — Theresa May is determined not to let Boris Johnson ruin her big week on the world stage.
The British prime minister played down a rift with her off-message foreign secretary Monday, telling media traveling with her on her trans-Atlantic trip that “Boris is Boris,” and insisting that she is leading from the front.
May arrived in Ottawa — her first trip to Canada ­— to talk post-Brexit trade with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau before she spends two days at the U.N. General Assembly in New York, where modern slavery and internet radicalization are on her agenda.
The prime minister is also scheduled to meet U.S. President Donald Trump Wednesday afternoon, as well as European leaders including Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni on Wednesday morning.
But her carefully choreographed week has inevitably been overshadowed by Johnson’s 4,000-word piece published Friday night in the Telegraph setting out his vision of how Brexit can “succeed mightily.”
Johnson, who was the front man of the campaign to leave the European Union, reignited the row over the Vote Leave claim that Britain would be £350 million per week better off outside the EU, leading to a public dispute with David Norgrove, the head of the U.K. Statistics Authority over what he called “a clear misuse of official statistics.”
Reports that May is preparing to announce that she will carry on paying up to £10 billion a year to the EU during a transition period, which could last for three years, will put Johnson in a difficult position after his leading role in the campaign, which made great play of the financial savings from Brexit.
While May was keen to highlight post-Brexit trade and her U.N. General Assembly agenda, she faced repeated questions from journalists about the unity of her cabinet and her authority.
The U.K. prime minister insisted her cabinet were “all going to the same destination because we all agree on the basis of the Lancaster House speech [which set out her Brexit vision in January] which set out the principles for our negotiation.”
Pushed on whether she was frustrated by Johnson’s intervention, May responded, “Boris is Boris.”
The prime minister would not be drawn into Johnson’s row with the statisticians, saying that in reality, the amount the U.K. paid into the European Union changed.
But she reiterated that the U.K. would not be paying “huge sums into the EU,” giving the government the opportunity to decide how the money is spent.
May also would not be drawn into any promises on money and said that “at a point in the future when we have left the EU we won’t be paying that money into the EU. Of course, we will have to decide as a government how to spend that money.”
“At the time we would look to see where we think it is appropriate and best to spend that money. That will be a decision that will be taken at the time and will be taken by the government,” she added.


Hungary will “respect the will of the people” if Catalonia goes ahead with a referendum on independence on October 1, the Hungarian government said on Monday.
“The will of the people is always what matters, that’s the position,” Zoltán Kovács, spokesman for Prime Minister Viktor Orbán’s administration, told a press conference in Brussels when asked if Hungary had a position on Catalonia.
“That’s the internal issue for the Spanish and Catalonian people and it should be their decision, we all have to respect the will of the people, this is called democracy,” he added.
Pro-independence leaders in Catalonia are pressing ahead with their plan for a referendum even though the Spanish government, with the backing of the Constitutional Court, says that the vote is illegal.
Kovács did not say whether Hungary would recognize Catalan independence if the disputed referendum produced a result in favor of breaking away from Spain.
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has vowed to do everything necessary to stop the referendum going ahead. Last week, Spain’s public prosecutor ordered an investigation into 712 Catalan mayors who have vowed to provide logistical support for the vote in defiance of a ban by the Constitutional Court.
In recent days, armed police have raided print works and newspaper offices in Catalonia to search for voting papers, ballot boxes and leaflets.


President Donald Trump told the United Nations on Monday that he sees “great potential” in it and its reform effort, just like the real estate mogul saw in his Manhattan skyscraper, Trump World Tower, located across the street from the U.N. headquarters.
Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the U.N., introduced the president at a session on reforming the United Nations at the U.N. General Assembly in New York with a nod to his success as a businessman.
“It is now my honor to introduce someone who is no stranger to change. Donald Trump has a businessman’s eye for seeing potential, and he sees great potential — not just in the reform movement but in the United Nations itself,” Haley said. “He shares your commitment to creating a more effective advocate for peace, security and human rights. We are deeply grateful he has taken the time to be with us today. Ladies and gentlemen, President Donald J. Trump.”
Trump thanked Haley for the introduction and paused for a brief applause. “I actually saw great potential right across the street, to be honest with you,” the president said, referring to Trump World Tower. “And it was only for the reason that the United Nations was here that that turned out to be such a successful project.”


Icelandic President Guðni Jóhannesson on Monday accepted Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson’s request to dissolve parliament and hold an election on October 28, Iceland Monitor reported.
The center-right government collapsed last week when a coalition partner quit after it was revealed that Benediktsson’s father wrote a letter in support of a convicted child abuser.
Jóhannesson said Benediktsson explored running a minority government but decided that was impossible.
The outgoing government, which only came to power in January, will be the shortest in Iceland’s history.
The previous government was dissolved last year after former Prime Minister Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson and his wife were accused, as part of the Panama Papers scandal, of setting up a shell company in the British Virgin Islands.


The number of failed asylum seekers taking their cases to court in Germany has skyrocketed, according to figures from the interior ministry released Monday at the request of German MP Ulla Jelpke from the far-left Die Linke.
In the first half of this year, around 283,000 asylum cases were filed with the courts, up from 175,000 in the whole of 2016, Süddeutsche Zeitung reported.
The vast majority of those cases were from people whose claim for asylum was rejected by the German Federal Office for Migration and Refugees. Around two-thirds of rejected asylum cases end up before the courts.
Having an asylum application turned down in Germany does not automatically mean being shipped back to your home country. Many are given a special status that allows them to stay in Germany for an initial year, but with fewer rights than someone seeking asylum (such as not being able to bring over family members and facing greater restrictions on entering the job market).
Süddeutsche Zeitung said the courts are struggling to cope with the increased workload, with just 39,000 cases dealt with between January and May.
According to the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees, it has dealt with 480,000 asylum applications this year, of which 190,000 were rejected. The figures do not indicate how many of those 190,000 then took their case to court.


Back in July, President Donald Trump was already escalating his rhetoric against North Korea as it became clear the rogue state was on the brink of a major breakthrough in its nuclear program, development of a ballistic missile capable of striking the continental United States. Still, he insisted, “I don’t draw red lines,” and wouldn’t be sucked into doing so.
But that was before North Korea conducted its largest nuclear weapon test ever and sent missiles flying directly over Japan. And before Trump threatened “fire and fury” and declared a North Korean bomb capable of reaching the United States “unacceptable.” And before Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, his national security adviser, warned on Friday that, all talk to the contrary, “there is a military option.”
All of which means that, whether he calls it one or not, Trump now has a red line – a move that a number of U.S. national security hands I’ve spoken with recently consider to be a serious and even “self-inflicted” escalation of what has become a genuine crisis with North Korea. In fact, Trump’s bluster may be more genuine than his reputation for bombast over action suggests: Two Republican veterans of previous administrations told me that McMaster has repeated those public warnings about a serious consideration of military options in private sessions at which they were present.
“The point that the Trump administration seems to be making is that if North Korea achieves an ICBM capability, that is a missile that can reliably reach the United States with a nuclear weapon, that changes everything. Well, it doesn’t. It never has,” says retired Adm. Dennis Blair, the former director of U.S. national intelligence, in a new interview for The Global Politico. “This hyping of the nuclear missile, which is merely one form of delivering a weapon, being able to reach the United States is a self-inflicted policy disadvantage which this administration has placed on itself.”

The North Koreans will soon cross Trump’s ICBM threshold if they haven’t already. “And so what’s the United States going to do at that point?” says Blair, a longtime Asia hand who also served as commander of the U.S. Pacific Fleet in charge of carrying out U.S. war plans against North Korea during an earlier round of tensions. “It’s something we’ve said is unacceptable. You don’t say something’s unacceptable in my experience unless you can do something about it…. If you put a red line out there, you have to be able to enforce it at acceptable cost, if your enemy miscalculates and the line is crossed.”
So now that Trump has his red line (never mind his previously stated belief that red lines, like the one President Obama famously drew with Syria over its use of chemical weapons, are “very dumb”), does that mean the war scare this time is real?
Is Trump actually prepared to do what three previous U.S. presidents—for the obvious reason that the costs could be unfathomably high—were not?
Neither Blair nor others I spoke with can answer that question yet. While McMaster has been talking tough in private as well as public, it’s also possible he’s doing so in order to, as one national security veteran put it, “restore the credibility of the military deterrent” – rather than to indicate any imminent attack. And many in Washington have become convinced over the first eight months of the Trump administration that the president is more comfortable rattling sabers than swinging them.
But at the same time the heated rhetoric has led Pentagon planners and outside experts into a hurried examination of new scenarios as the realization of Trump’s rhetorical ratcheting up has become clear.
The dilemma is pretty obvious: As one former senior Defense Department official put it to me the other day, “How do we do ‘fire and fury’ without buying a worldwide conflagration?”
Christopher Hill was the last senior U.S. diplomat to negotiate face to face with the North Koreans. He did so during President George W. Bush’s second term (not an administration “known for its embrace of multilateral diplomacy,” as he drily put it) before the deal fell apart.
So he’s sympathetic to Trump’s plight. Trump is now the fourth American president to declare a nuclear-armed North Korea unacceptable – even as North Korea’s nuclear arsenal has steadily grown and technological breakthroughs have put them on the brink of being able to target U.S. territory. “Look,” says Hill, who served as ambassador to South Korea and then as Bush’s assistant secretary of state for East Asia, “it is a very frustrating issue to deal with North Korea. I’m still in therapy over dealing with North Korea. But that doesn’t mean that we shouldn’t keep our cool and keep at the task.”
I had asked Hill and Blair – two of the most senior figures in the U.S. government to have had firsthand experience dealing directly with the North Korea nuclear program and what options the United States has for responding to it—to help me figure out just how seriously to take this latest round of war talk.
In a way, their answers are reassuring.
“I don’t think that we are running a very high risk of a nuclear exchange between North Korea and the United States,” Blair says.
But both are far more worried when it came to the changes in approach they were seeing from the Trump administration.
Not that they think Trump inherited good options from his predecessors. Bill Clinton cut a deal with the North Koreans – “the Agreed Framework” – to give up its nuclear program, only to see them cheat on the deal as Bush was coming into office. Bush, over the outrage of hardliners inside his administration, eventually went back to the table in the so-called Six-Party Talks – and his negotiator Hill even got an agreement by the North Koreans to dismantle their plutonium facility before that deal, too, fell apart.
Barack Obama never even got that far, preferring sanctions, secret sabotage and a hostile not-talking that was billed as “strategic patience”—even as a volatile new leader, Kim Jong Un, become the third generation of his family to embrace nuclear brinksmanship as a pillar of the country’s foreign policy.
Blair, who was involved in various ways with all three of those administrations and their North Korea policies, thinks not much is different—except Trump himself.
“The overall consistency of North Korean policy has been pretty remarkable over, I’d say, 50 years or so, and [Kim Jong Un] basically is carrying on that policy, which is to provoke, take outrageous actions below the level of triggering a major conflict with the United States and South Korea,” Blair says. “This pattern of operating below the level of a major war, but sufficiently alarming to get the attention of other governments, is quite consistent, and he seems to have updated it, pursues it perhaps more vigorously than others, but I don’t see a radical change in the North Korean game.”
Hill disagrees somewhat, in that he believes Kim Jong Un is far less open to meaningful outside pressure—including from the Chinese, whom Trump as well as his predecessors believe hold the key to any nuclear deal with the North Koreans.
“Kim Jong Un does not care what the Chinese think or what we think,” says Hill, who conducted most of his talks with the North Koreans in Beijing from late 2005 until 2008, when Kim’s father, Kim Jong Il, still ruled. “And frankly he is not prepared, from what I can tell, to restart negotiations on the basis of what the purpose of the negotiations was in the first place, which was denuclearization.”
Both agree, though, on something that’s striking to hear from two former top U.S. officials: that Trump’s departure is the more marked one.
“We used to be the strong, silent type on all of this crazy rhetoric coming out of Pyongyang, and we were the models of restrained, careful statements, and that’s not the style of this president,” Blair says.
Hill noted Trump’s North Korea tweetstorms—on Sunday, he called Kim Jong Un “Rocket Man” and taunted him about the pain he said was being caused by the latest round of U.N. sanctions—as an example of the new administration’s anything-but-diplomatic approach.
“So far we sort of communicate with them by the occasional dead-of-the-night tweet or a few phone calls, maybe one or two visits, but we haven’t had the sustained kind of discussions,” he says. “You know, when Nixon went to Shanghai and pulled that rabbit out of a hat, well, you know, rabbits don’t live in hats. Henry Kissinger spent days on end stuffing that rabbit down the hat.”
In the end, neither was all that reassuring—and much of their concern has to do with the unpredictability of the man in the Oval Office.
Still, both Hill and Blair are believers in the idea that history shapes presidential decisions far more than we always recognize. And that means two things are likely to be true: America won’t start a war with North Korea absent an attack. And Kim, if Trump finds ways short of outright war to ratchet up the pressure, will probably cave.
But I’ll give the last word to the Pentagon veteran I spoke with last week, whose job involved many hours of planning over just such worrisome North Korea scenarios.
Is war still more or less impossible? I asked. Not necessarily, came the reply. “We have always probably overly discounted the chances.”
Reassured yet?
I didn’t think so.
Susan B. Glasser is POLITICO’s chief international affairs columnist. Her new podcast, The Global Politico, comes out Mondays. Subscribe here. Follow her on Twitter @sbg1.


First Minister of Wales Carwyn Jones on Monday likened a hard Brexit to “religious fundamentalism” and warned the policy could harm London’s relationship with the U.K.’s devolved nations.
“The problem with the [EU] referendum was that the vote was to leave, but there was any number of interpretations over what that meant,” Jones said in an interview with the Guardian published Monday.
Wales voted to leave the EU by 52.5 percent in last year’s referendum, according to the BBC. But, Jones argued, the Tory party’s poor results in June’s snap election made it clear that U.K. citizens don’t favor a hard break from the bloc.
“The narrative of the hard Leavers is that the only interpretation you can put on this is a hard Brexit,” Jones said.
“It’s a kind of religious fundamentalism. This is the only true way. Nobody can disagree with us. That narrative has to be challenged. People were offered the chance to vote for a hard Brexit in June and didn’t.”
Jones also said the Brexit bill constituted a “power grab” from London at the expense of devolved states, and drew comparisons to former Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev’s doctrine of limited sovereignty.
“They have said they want the consent of the devolved legislatures in order for the bill to go forward. We welcome that,” Jones said.
But, he added: “They can’t say: ‘Yes you can take the decision as long as you agree with us.’ That isn’t consent, that’s the doctrine of limited sovereignty from the days of Brezhnev.”
In a joint statement released in July, Scotland and Wales called the bill a “naked power grab” aiming to return power to Westminster.
Jones also said he worries the Welsh economy will suffer if London pursues a hard Brexit.
“We can’t be prosperous unless we have the fullest possible access to the single market,” Jones said. “That’s hugely important for us, 67 percent of our exports go there. Any obstacle and we lose jobs. It’s that simple. We don’t have to have the sort of Brexit that the Tories are proposing.”
“As someone who wants the U.K. to stay together, I don’t want daft decisions such as the current bill to cause the U.K. to begin to unravel,” Jones said. “I’m a devolutionist who believes in the union.”


North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is “not irrational” but following a “cool-headed strategy,” German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel said in an interview published Monday.
Speaking to German newspaper Bild, Gabriel said there was a clear logic to Kim’s strategy. “If he has the atomic bomb, then — so he thinks — his regime is assured,” Gabriel said. “Because no one will dare to threaten him.”
“Sanctions take time to take effect,” Gabriel, a senior member of the Social Democrats (SPD), said, calling on Russia, the U.S. and China to “join the table” for direct negotiations with North Korea.
Gabriel also compared the current impasse to the Cold War after the Soviet invasion of Prague in 1968, and praised former party leader Willy Brandt’s leadership during the crisis.
“Willy Brandt’s disarmament policy also began in the darkest hour of the Cold War,” Gabriel said. “Now is the time for visions and courageous steps again.”
Asked which conflict — Syria, North Korea or Yemen — worries him most, Gabriel said: “If North Korea follows through [with its nuclear weapons program] many other countries will follow its example and get nuclear weapons.”
“Then our children will live in a very dangerous world,” he said.


Liberal Democrat leader Vince Cable lamented “the complete breakdown of discipline” in Theresa May’s Cabinet Monday and said that Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson should “absolutely” be fired from his job.
Speaking to the BBC’s Today program, Cable criticized Johnson’s 4,000-word treatise on Brexit in the Telegraph over the weekend in which the foreign secretary repeated the discredited call for £350 million a week that is currently sent to the EU to be spent on the NHS post-Brexit. “Once we have settled our accounts, we will take back control of roughly £350 million per week. It would be a fine thing, as many of us have pointed out, if a lot of that money went on the NHS,” Johnson wrote.
“What has made his [Johnson’s] position impossible is that he is not just being contradicted by politicians … but by senior civil servants,” Cable said, referring to David Norgrove, the U.K. Statistics Authority chief who debunked the numbers Johnson presented. “This is simply wrong.”
“Even [former UKIP leader] Nigel Farage disowned it [the £350 million figure],” Cable added. “Why he’s gone back to it is just extraordinary.”
Asked whether Johnson could become the next prime minister, Cable said: “He could well be. He clearly is extremely volatile, unpredictable, very sort of Trump-like characteristics here, the very opposite of Theresa May.”
 


Much of the British press focused on the fallout from Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson’s 4,000-word missive in the Telegraph over the weekend. “Boris and May in Brexit bill showdown,” the Telegraph wrote, reporting Johnson opposed paying the EU £30 billion to settle its finances. The Times reported Johnson and Prime Minister Theresa May were at loggerheads, as “Johnson cut adrift after Brexit ploy backfires.”
The Financial Times and the Guardian focused on a controversy over how much the U.K. would save after Brexit and whether the money would go to the National Health Service. “Number-crunchers take Johnson to task over revived £350m pledge,” the FT wrote, referring to an accusation by David Norgrove, chairman of the U.K. Statistics Authority, that Johnson was guilty of “clear misuse” of official statistics. Johnson responded by accusing Norgrove of a “wilful distortion of the text of my article.” The Guardian reported: “Johnson in ‘distortion’ row after £350m Brexit claims.”




Anti-Catalan independence newspapers reported Socialist Party leader Pedro Sánchez has come out against the planned referendum October 1, saying Catalonia was “drifting toward illegality.” El Punt Avui, a newspaper that supports secession, led with a joint open letter from 20 journalists and writers to Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy and Catalan President Carles Puigdemont. “In Madrid, not everyone is against the referendum,” the paper wrote.


Much of the German press focused on the fight for third place in Germany’s September 24 general election. With Chancellor Angela Merkel’s CDU/CSU way out in front and challenger Martin Schulz’s Social Democrats a distant second, the Greens, the liberal FDP and the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) jostle for leftovers. Die Welt reported the Greens and the FDP were hinting they would coordinate to block the AfD’s path to government. “Nothing is ruled out,” the headline read. The Süddeutsche Zeitung noted the rising number of asylum applications — 283,000 by mid-July — most awaiting decisions in German courts.


Le Figaro led with a preview of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, where U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to deliver a speech on Tuesday to hundreds of heads of government. “The United Nations faces an unpredictable Trump,” its headline read. Left-leaning Libération’s front page focused on continuing coverage of President Emmanuel Macron’s proposed labor reforms. According to an in-house poll, 60 percent of French citizens believe the law will imperil job security and 68 percent believe it will encourage layoffs.




MADRID — On August 23, less than a week after the double terrorist strike in Catalonia that killed 16 people and injured at least 100, Islamic State issued a new threat against Spain.
“Spanish Christians, don’t forget the Muslim blood that has been shed [and] the Spanish Inquisition,” a young, bearded man, later identified as Muhammad Yasin Ahram Pérez, said in a video posted online by the terrorist group. “We will avenge the massacres you have carried out and those you are carrying out now against Islamic State.”
Pérez, who grew up in Spain, spoke in fluent Spanish. “Al Andalus will once again be what it was, the land of the Caliphate.”
Spain’s NATO membership, its military presence in Afghanistan and police action against jihadists have made it — like a number of other European nations — a key target for terrorists. But Spain’s geography and history also mean it has a unique relationship with the Muslim world, which arguably makes it more susceptible to jihadist attacks than many of its neighbors.
In the eighth century, Muslims from North Africa controlled what is now Spain and Portugal. Under Muslim rule, the southern city of Córdoba was an influential seat of learning and the site of one of the most important mosques in the Muslim world.
When Christians reconquered the peninsula in 1492, Muslims and Jews were forced to convert to Christianity or face expulsion from Spain.
For jihadists, the events of five centuries ago remain an open wound, said Manuel Torres Soriano, author of “Al Andalus 2.0″ and a political scientist at Seville’s Universidad Pablo de Olavide. “[Al Andalus] has an enormous symbolism among these kinds of groups.”
Younes Abouyaaqoub’s rampage in Barcelona — the first terror attack in Spain since the 2004 train bombings in Madrid that left 191 people dead — highlights the Islamic State’s renewed focus on the territory’s semi-mythical status.
The country is firmly in Europe’s anti-terrorism vanguard. Spanish nationals or residents have joined ISIS in Iraq and Syria in far smaller numbers than citizens of France, Belgium or the U.K.
But the intense counterterrorism activity has inevitably had drawbacks too, especially when it comes to preventing combatants from going abroad to join ISIS.
“They’ve been a victim of their own success, if you like,” said one Spain-based diplomatic source. “Because [jihadists] are thinking ‘okay, you won’t let us go to Syria or Iraq, so we’ll do it here instead.’”
After more than three decades of violence waged by Basque group ETA, Spanish security and intelligence forces are well-versed in combatting terror. But by the beginning of the last decade, ETA was floundering. To counter jihadism seemed to require different resources and methods.
“We want to start doing something fundamental: have a top-level, professional coordination structure as a means to fight the biggest problem this country faces,” Interior Minister José Antonio Alonso said shortly after the 2004 attacks.
The government has since created a new anti-terrorist coordination agency (CNCA) and reallocated hundreds of security officials to anti-jihadist departments. The justice system responded with a series of legal reforms that made it easier to bring suspected jihadists to court.
Spain has arrested nearly 800 people suspected of jihadist activity since the Madrid attacks. And since June 2015 — when it raised the terror alert from three to four (out of a maximum of five) in response to an attack at a Tunisian resort — authorities have made 150 arrests.
This year, Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría announced an extra €20 million for the National Intelligence Agency (CNI) specifically for anti-terrorism purposes, and 600 new staff in the next five years.
Spanish security forces have “more than 1,000 suspects on their radar,” the courts are investigating 259 people and 500 phones are being tapped, El País newspaper reported in June, citing government sources.
Still, the recent attack in Catalonia shed light on gaps in coordination between Spain’s different police forces and state institutions. In the aftermath of August’s attacks, Interior Minister Juan Ignacio Zoido called for improved coordination between Spain’s local and national security forces.
Catalonia’s Mossos d’Esquadra, for example, handles anti-terrorism activities under the authority of the government of Catalonia, not the national government. Critics say the Mossos failed to heed a warning in May from U.S. intelligence services about a potential attack in Barcelona, while the force itself has complained of being excluded from top-level Spanish anti-terror briefings.
Two areas that are of particular concern for Spain’s security forces are the cities of Ceuta and Melilla.
Geographical oddities, they are perched on the North African coast, bordering Morocco, yet they belong to Spain. Entering either city from Morocco means leaving Africa and legally arriving in Europe. A six-meter-high security fence surrounds both enclaves to stop migrants and refugees from entering and attempting to claim asylum.
Morocco has a longstanding claim to both territories — where roughly half the population is of Moroccan descent — but it is a dispute that King Mohammed VI, who has mostly good relations with Spain, rarely raises.
“These two cities are seen by jihadists as colonies — colonies that Spain has in a Muslim country,” said Soriano, of the Universidad Pablo de Olavide. “If you read jihadist propaganda, it tries to present them as places similar to Jerusalem or Grozny — where a Christian army occupies the territory.”
Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) and other terrorist groups frequently criticize the Moroccan monarch for complacency, and extremists exploit the anger many ordinary Moroccans feel about Spain’s presence there. They present themselves “as the only ones who are serious about taking back these two cities,” said Soriano.
Large numbers of suspected jihadists have been arrested in recent years in Mellila’s La Cañada and Ceuta’s El Príncipe neighborhoods, both notoriously deprived majority-Muslim districts.
In El Príncipe, the words Estado Islámico (“Islamic State”) were scrawled on the walls of the district’s only church shortly after the Charlie Hebdo attacks of 2015. Muhammad Yasin Ahram Pérez, the jihadist featured in the Spanish-language ISIS video released in August, lived in the neighborhood before traveling to Syria to join the terror group.
The chaotic, porous borders at Ceuta and Melilla also make the cities a relatively easy route into Europe. Although its monarch preaches a moderate strain of Islam, Morocco has gained an unwelcome reputation as an exporter of extremists.
In Ceuta and Melilla, problems of integration and social deprivation are blatant. On the Spanish mainland, such issues are, for the most part, less visible.
The country counts approximately 2 million Muslims, around 70 percent of whom are North African or of North African descent. Some arrived in the late 1960s, shortly before Spain made the transition to democracy following the 1975 death of dictator Francisco Franco. But the majority have come since the 1990s, seeking economic opportunities.
The earlier wave of Muslim migrants integrated fully, but more recent arrivals from the Maghreb are more likely to “peacefully coexist” with the Catholic majority, said Ignacio Cembrero, a journalist who covers North Africa and the author of “La España de Alá” (“Allah’s Spain”). He points to a number of almost exclusively Muslim areas, particularly in Catalonia, such as Salt and Ca n’Anglada.
“When you’re in Ca n’Anglada you get the feeling that you’re not in Catalonia, or in Spain, or even in Europe,” Cembrero said. “You feel like you’re somewhere in Morocco or Algeria. I don’t think that’s necessarily a problem, but for me, that’s a ghetto, and the Catalan authorities deny that there are any ghettoes.”
Along with Ceuta and Melilla, Catalonia is the greatest source of concern for authorities charged with combatting radical Islam, a fear that was borne out with the recent attacks. Both the CIA and FBI have offices in the region’s capital, Barcelona.
Yet, Ripoll, the small Catalan town where Abouyaaqoub and most other members of his cell came from, is not a ghetto. There is little suggestion that the terrorists were marginalized.
According to locals, these young men, all of Moroccan origin, spoke fluent Catalan and Spanish. They socialized, played soccer and were studying or working nearby.
Those testimonies may appear to contradict the notion that a lack of ground-level integration is to blame for extremism in Spain. But the fact remains that Abouyaaqoub and his peers were vulnerable to the influence of Abdelbaki Es Satty, the Moroccan imam who lived in Ripoll and radicalized him — and others are too.
A broader look at Islam’s presence in the country shows significant points of tension between the two communities.
In four decades of democracy, there has never been a Muslim member of Congress and only one representative of the Islamic faith in a regional parliament — the Catalan Socialist Mohammed Chaib.
In Córdoba, meanwhile, a recent attempt by the Catholic Church to whitewash the Islamic heritage of the Great Mosque — which has a medieval cathedral built in the middle of it — in tourist literature sparked a heated debate.
The Church has since backtracked and restored the original literature. But the incident highlights an uncomfortable truth. To prevent further terrorist attacks on Spanish soil, amping up intelligence and policing won’t be enough. The country will have to reckon with its often uneasy relationship with its Muslim past and help its Muslim community forge a clear, modern identity.


BERLIN — There are two likely outcomes in Germany’s general election. Neither is great for the country’s Greens — even though one would put them in government.
Opinion polls show Chancellor Angela Merkel cruising toward reelection in Sunday’s vote but still needing to form a coalition to get a majority in parliament. If the polls are correct, her conservative bloc will have two options worth considering — a repeat of the current “grand coalition” with the center-left Social Democrats or an alliance with two smaller parties, the Greens and the liberal Free Democrats (FDP).
As a grand coalition of the two big parties is generally considered a last resort, depriving the country of a strong opposition, Merkel will at least have to explore the second option — a “Jamaica” coalition, called as such because the colors of the three parties match those of the Jamaican flag.
That might sound like good news for the environmentalist Greens, whose leaders are keen to get back into power after 12 years in opposition. They have sent out strong signals that they are open to joining a government led by Merkel — an option they rejected after holding coalition talks four years ago. Merkel’s conservatives, in turn, have made overtures to the Greens.
But while Jamaica conjures up images of hot sunshine for those not steeped in German politics, it sends cold shivers down the spines of Green party members. Many Greens, whose party grew out of the environmentalist and peace movements of the 1970s, see the business-friendly FDP as the antithesis of everything they stand for.
“The FDP is an ‘anti-party’ — they’re anti-climate protection, against more tenants’ rights and social housing, anti-solidarity in Europe,” Greens party chief Cem Özdemir said recently. “I don’t see how we should come together with the FDP.”

Katrin Göring-Eckardt, the party’s other lead candidate in the election, accused the FDP during a party conference on Sunday of advocating for the coal lobby and denying climate change.
And yet the two leaders — both of whom are considered part of party’s pragmatist wing — have not excluded ending up in such an alliance.
A Green party appeal to voters issued on Sunday, a week before polling day, harshly criticized FDP policies but also stated that the party remains “willing to negotiate after the election with all parties except the [far-right] Alternative for Germany.”
On the campaign trail, Green activists are even more blunt about their distaste for the FDP and a Jamaica coalition.
“Particularly when it comes to the topics at the core of the Green party such as the environment, the FDP wants to reverse everything,” declared Canan Bayram, a Green member of the regional Berlin state parliament who is running for a seat in the Bundestag.
“I don’t know anyone who is taken seriously among the Greens and who would consider Jamaica a viable option. It’s just not on,” she said as she handed out campaign flyers by a subway stop in the capital’s Friedrichshain neighborhood.
A Green official in the Bundestag went even further. “When it comes to the climate and the economy, the FDP is the devil,” said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity.
The FDP feels much the same about the Greens — and about forming a government with them. Party leader Christian Lindner told the Berliner Zeitung newspaper he doesn’t “believe in a Jamaica coalition anymore.”
But both parties know that, in less than a week, it could be their only chance of entering government. (Theoretically, both the FDP and the Greens might also have a chance of forming a government with Merkel’s party alone but that looks unlikely, according to current polls.)

Bayram said the leadership was right to aim for government and, initially at least, was right to keep an open-minded approach to coalition partners. But she said this stance risks putting off potential supporters.
“It’s also important to speak about where the limits of common ground are, and at some point back off,” she said, sipping a coffee supplied by a local vegetable shop owner.
Bayram, 51, is identified with the left-leaning, more radical wing of the party, previously known as the “Fundis” (fundamentalists), who have traditionally faced off against the more pragmatic “Realos” (realists).
Although that traditional dividing line — which dates back to bitter feuds in the 1980s and 1990s — has blurred over the years, the party still faces struggles between moderates keen to govern and hard-liners more wary of diluting their principles.
“I don’t think it’s a good thing if people get the impression that everybody gets along with everyone and at the end of the day, everyone will end up sitting at one table,” Bayram said. “We do have a responsibility towards our voters that we are clear in our profile and what we stand for.”
For those Greens keen to get back into government for the first time since they were junior partners to the Social Democrats from 1998 to 2005, this year’s election could leave them regretting their failure to seal a deal with Merkel four years ago.
Merkel herself warned them at the time that they were missing a historic chance, according to her finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble.
“You know, there are moments in history when a door opens but then it also closes again,” the chancellor told a senior Green official late one night in October 2013 after the party ended coalition talks, Schäuble recalled. “Today, you missed that open door.”
Schäuble’s account is disputed by a former Green leader. But if the door to government opens once again, the Greens may find crossing the threshold even more difficult this time.


Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi made his formal return to politics Sunday by laying out a pro-Europe policy platform at a meeting of his party Forza Italia, Reuters reported.
“We predict a great victory for the center-right,” said Berlusconi.
Berlusconi, 81, resigned in 2011 after he lost his parliamentary majority as Italy was sucked into the European debt crisis.
Now, Berlusconi — who has already served nine years as prime minister in total — wants to lead his party into the election, expected by next March, on a pro-Europe agenda of more common defense, foreign, industrial and fiscal policies, as well as continued membership in the euro.
This is despite his alliance with more Euroskeptic parties, the right-wing Northern League and Brothers of Italy. Together, the parties have 35 percent of Italian support, polls show.
Berlusconi is currently barred from public office until 2019 due to a tax fraud conviction, but he has appealed the ruling to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg with a hearing set for November.
“I expect that Europe completely restores my honor … But court or no court, I promise you that I will take part in the election campaign,” he said.
CORRECTION: A previous version of this article misstated the timeline of Berlusconi’s European Court of Human Rights case. The court hearing is on November 22.


British Prime Minister Theresa May expressed irritation with President Donald Trump’s tweet after an attack on the London underground on Friday claiming “a loser terrorist” who was “in the sights of Scotland Yard” in an interview, saying such speculation was not “helpful.”
“I don’t think it’s helpful for anyone to speculate on what is an ongoing investigation,” May said after George Stephanopoulos asked her in a pre-taped interview on ABC’s “This Week” whether it was true that a suspect was in Scotland Yard’s sights before the attack.
It’s not the first time Trump has irked British officials by tweeting after an attack. The day after terrorists killed seven people in an attack in London in June, Trump took to Twitter to go after London Mayor Sadiq Khan for saying there was “no reason to be alarmed” in a quote that was taken out of context.
Still, May declined to criticize Trump during the rest of the interview and took several opportunities to praise him. She is to meet with Trump this week as part of her visit to the United States.
“I do get on with him,” May said, adding that Trump “actually has an affection for the United Kingdom.”
Asked by Stephanopoulos what she would say to her fellow Brits, who polls have shown have a low opinion of Trump, May responded, “Well, what I say is that they should see what President Trump has done,” citing his commitment to NATO.
“I was very pleased when I came over to see him, shortly after his inauguration, that he gave an absolute 100 percent commitment to NATO,” she said.


The leader of the U.K.’s Liberal Democrats, Vince Cable, called European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker “pompous, self-important and overpaid,” according to a newspaper report Sunday.
Cable, launching his party’s conference in the south coast town of Bournemouth, said Juncker should go and be replaced by someone “more attuned to reality and public opinion,” the Mail on Sunday reported.
In a reference to Juncker’s alleged drinking habits, Cable said: “Since Mr. Juncker has several visions, perhaps he should go and see an optician.”
Cable, who took over as Lib Dem leader after the June election, told the Mail that “Juncker embodies many of the EU’s failings. He is pompous, self-important and overpaid.
“It is people like him who give the European project a bad name. Juncker puts off a lot of people in Britain who would otherwise be well disposed to the EU. Just because my party is against Brexit does not mean we are not prepared to be strong critics of the EU.”
However, Cable said he “had a lot of time” for Michel Barnier, the EU’s chief Brexit negotiator.
In an interview with the Observer, Cable said he could be the next British prime minister.
“Given the alternatives, I think that’s plausible,” he said, citing the victories of Emmanuel Macron in France and Justin Trudeau in Canada as evidence that “in these times of political upheaval all kinds of strange things can happen.”
The Liberal Democrats have 12 MPs.


Waiting for an election is like getting ready for “a big football game,” German Chancellor Angela Merkel told former Bayern Munich and Germany star Philipp Lahm.
The chancellor gave a wide ranging interview to Lahm, who lifted the 2014 World Cup for Germany, in Bild Am Sonntag a week before the election.
Asked how she handles election day, Merkel said she doesn’t sleep very well, “and then it’s like a big football game: you’re waiting for the time when you know how it’s gone.”
However, the main difference with football is that on election day “I am condemned to passivity,” she said. “This is the difference: you are waiting for a crucial game and then you can give everything you have.”
For politicians, all the action comes before the election with interviews and public appearances, after which “is only waiting and watching,” Merkel added.
The election will be held on September 24, and polls put Merkel’s conservatives comfortably ahead of the Social Democrats, with the far-right Alternative for Germany in third.


British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson was on Sunday accused of “backseat driving” on Brexit by his Cabinet colleague Amber Rudd.
Asked about Johnson’s article in the Telegraph, published online late Friday, in which he laid out his vision of Brexit, Home Secretary Rudd told the BBC’s Andrew Marr that the foreign secretary was allowed to be enthusiastic but he was “not driving the car.”
Rudd said, “I don’t want him [Johnson] managing the Brexit process.”
Johnson wrote that Britain would be a low-tax, low-regulation country after it leaves the European Union. One of the most eye-catching points of his plan was an extra £350 million a week for the NHS, a figure that was used in the referendum campaign but which was widely derided for being inaccurate.
During the Brexit referendum debate, Rudd, who backed Remain, said Johnson was “the life and soul of the party, but not a man you’d want to drive you home at the end of the evening.”
In Sunday’s Observer, unnamed Conservative politicians said Johnson should be sacked for speaking out so strongly on Brexit just days before Theresa May delivers a Brexit speech in Florence.


LONDON — Prime Minister Theresa May should “admit” just how much the U.K. needs the EU in her Brexit speech in Florence this week, the president of the European Parliament said.
In an interview with the Independent, Antonio Tajani said it is up to British negotiators to make concrete Brexit proposals, “not the other way around,” and that London needs to be clear on what relationship it wants with the EU.
“I accept the U.K.’s decision to leave and would like us to maintain close relations after Brexit, but it is up to British negotiators to make concrete proposals, not the other way around,” he said. “The U.K. government has to decide on the exact nature of the relationship that it wants with the EU and, in some quarters, admit that it needs the EU more than what it is letting on at home now.”
He said that in her Florence speech, May should address three key Brexit sticking points: the protection of EU citizens’ rights, preserving the Good Friday Agreement, and the Brexit bill.
“Solutions on these three key issues are what will form the basis of a sound post-Brexit relationship between the U.K. and EU,” he said.
The European Parliament is set to vote on whether the U.K. has made “sufficient progress” on divorce issues, allowing talks to move on to a future relationship, on October 3, the day before May makes her appearance at the Tory Party conference.


French President Emmanuel Macron welcomed a new addition to the Elysée Palace: a black labrador-griffon cross named Nemo.
Perhaps Nemo was brought into Macron’s inner circle to provide the once bushy-tailed president with moral support as his poll numbers fall through the floor and his labor reforms lead to mass street protests.
Macron isn’t the first president to turn to canine companionship. Dogs have been loyal friends to those in positions of power over the years.
Russian President Vladimir Putin and his U.S. counterparts have often been at loggerheads — but they share a love of dogs.
And while Donald Trump’s staff have often resembled a bunch of feuding terriers, the top dog himself is the first president in 130 years not to have a pet pooch in the White House. (The last president without a canine friend, William McKinley, kept a rooster, two angora kittens and a parrot named Washington Post.)
John F. Kennedy had one. Ronald Reagan had one. And Richard Nixon had one — though Checkers didn’t live long enough to see his master become president.
 
Cats aren’t as popular with those in power, but here’s Larry the Downing Street cat watching over British Prime Minister Theresa May, and Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak posing with the distinctly unimpressed Kiki.
 
They might not be her pets, but German Chancellor Angela Merkel has never been afraid of getting close to exotic animals, from pandas to penguins, and lemurs to llamas.
 
The rule for politicians visiting Australia seems clear: You must be photographed with an animal. Chinese President Xi Jinping and his wife Peng Liyuan said nǐ hǎo to a wombat in Canberra, while European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and International Monetary Fund chief, Christine Lagarde, were greeted by a koala bear in Brisbane.
 
Costa Rican President Luis Guillermo Solís proved his love for animals after signing a law that created strict punishments, from fines to prison time, for animal cruelty. People, and chickens, flocked to the streets in eggstasy at the legislation.


The U.K. government will on Monday propose a post-Brexit arrangement with the EU that allows for “continued security, law enforcement and criminal justice cooperation.”
In its latest Brexit position paper, the U.K. will call for a new security treaty that would “maintain operational capabilities” between the two sides; include “a high standard of data protection and the safeguarding of human rights;” and provide for “appropriate dispute resolution.”
“Effective international cooperation is absolutely crucial for both the U.K. and the EU if we are to keep our citizens safe and bring criminals to justice,” said Brexit Secretary David Davis.
“We already have a deep level of collaboration with the EU on security matters and it is in both our interests to find ways to maintain it.
“A new security treaty with the EU would be underpinned by our shared principles, and should make sure our partnership has the agility to respond to the ever-changing threats we face.”
Amber Rudd, the home secretary, added: “Recent events in the U.K. and across Europe have shown the criminal and terrorist threats we face are varied and increasingly international. The long-standing collaboration we have with our European partners allows us to jointly address these threats and keep our citizens safe.”
The latest terror attack in London took place Friday when an explosive device partially exploded at an underground station in West London.
The next round of Brexit talks gets underway in Brussels on September 25, after being pushed back a week. On September 22, Prime Minister Theresa May will give a speech on Brexit in Florence.
The U.K. has published position papers on a range of topics, from Northern Ireland to future customs arrangements. The EU has refused to budge from its stance that a future relationship can only be discussed once the divorce proceedings have been dealt with.


German police have dealt with more than 2,000 election-related criminal offenses, with members of the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) increasingly the target, Die Welt reported Saturday.
Citing a report by the Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA), Die Welt reported that around 2,250 criminal acts had taken place in connection to the September 24 election, mostly involving criminal damage, insults and propaganda.
The police report shows that the far-right are increasingly the target of attacks. The report said that “worth mentioning are especially candidates of the AfD and their events, which are increasingly affected by reports about damage to property and disturbances.”
The AfD is polling at around 10 percent, comfortably above the 5 percent threshold for entry to the German parliament.
The BKA is partially responsible for protecting politicians during the election campaign. According to Die Welt, the workload for BKA personnel has gone up significantly in the past year because of threats from extremists on the left and the right as well as Turkish nationalists.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Saturday urged the Social Democrats (SPD) to distance themselves from a possible coalition with the far-left Die Linke party, according to German media.
“We live in uneasy times,” Merkel said at a campaign event on the island of Rügen, in the north-east of the country. “We cannot afford experiments.”
Germany needs stability and security in the coming years, Merkel said. “You can ask the SPD, whenever and whomever. But you never get an answer to that one question: will you form a red-red-green coalition … or not?,” she said, referring to a deal between the SPD, Die Linke and the Greens.
Polls put Merkel’s Christian Democrat bloc well ahead of the SPD with just over a week to go until the election on September 24, but she told supporters that “nothing’s decided yet.” Her CDU/CSU alliance is currently polling at 37 percent, according to a survey by German broadcaster ARD on Thursday. The SPD slipped to 20 percent.
The same survey also showed that 46 percent of CDU/CSU voters would prefer a coalition with the liberal Free Democrats (FDP) and the Greens. Another 45 percent, however, would like to see the current grand coalition with the SPD continue.
According to the poll, 50 percent of SPD supporters said they would support a coalition with the Christian Democrats and 46 percent argued in favor of teaming up with opposition parties.
SPD leader Martin Schulz said party members should decide if the party should form a coalition after the election, and with whom, Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported. The comments were seen as a way to silence critics within the party who oppose another coalition with the CDU.
German press reported that during Merkel’s speech, some members of the crowd whistled in anger and held up signs warning against her reelection. But DPA reported that it was nothing like the loud chants that accompanied Merkel’s campaign tour in the east German towns of Torgau and Finsterwalde.


First published in The New York Times, U.S., September 13, 2017 | By Chappatte
 
First published on HBtoons.com, Ireland, September 14, 2017 | By Harry Burton
 
First published on POLITICO.eu, Belgium, September 16, 2017 | By Rytis Daukantas
 
First published on POLITICO.com, U.S., September 12, 2017 | By Matt Wuerker
 
First published on Caglecartoons.com, The Netherlands, September 13, 2017 | By Tom Janssen
 
First published in Latvijas Avize, Latvia, September 5, 2017 | By Gatis Sluka
 
First published on Caglecartoons.com, Bulgaria, September 13, 2017 | By Christo Komarnitski
 
First published in The Augusta Chronicle, U.S., September 13, 2017 | By Rick McKee
 
First published in Roll Call, U.S., September 12, 2017 | By R.J. Matson


“ISOLATED?” read the subject line.
“Friend,” Donald Trump wrote recently to supporters in a fundraising email. “The fake news keeps saying, ‘President Trump is isolated.’ … They say I’m isolated by lobbyists, corporations, grandstanding politicians, and Hollywood. GOOD! I don’t want them,” he fumed, employing italics for emphasis.
Sent on August 28, two days after Hurricane Harvey inundated Houston, Trump’s defiant appeal acknowledged the mounting perception that nearly eight months into his first term—and in the aftermath of his racially divisive response to the violence in Charlottesville—he’s never been politically more lonely. He’s at odds with Congress — including leaders and members of his own party — and his deal-making with Democrats is angering some of his most ardent conservative supporters. He’s been abandoned and censured by art leaders, business leaders and world leaders. His Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida is bleeding bookings. And he’s losing favored aides due to the actions of his own chief of staff, General John Kelly, who restricts access to the president with the diligence of a border guard. Last week, the New York Times described Trump as a “solitary cowboy,” reminding readers he once called himself “the Lone Ranger.”
His critics might see his growing isolation as a product of his political inexperience — an aversion to the norms of the legislative process, a penchant for topsy-turvy management. But as unprecedented as this might be in the annals of the West Wing, it’s merely a continuation of a lifelong pattern of behavior for Trump. Take away the Pennsylvania Avenue address, the never-ending list of domestic and international crises, and the couldn’t-be-higher geopolitical stakes — and this looks very much like … Trump throughout his entire existence. Isolated is how he’s always operated.
The middle son of a stony, workaholic father with whom he had an “almost businesslike” relationship, Trump is a double divorcee, a boss with a professed distaste for having partners or shareholders, a television-tethered, hamburger-eating homebody and a germaphobe who has described shaking hands as “terrible,” “barbaric” and “one of the curses of American society.” He’s been a loner most of his life. At New York Military Academy, everybody knew him but few of his fellow cadets knew him well. In college, he made no friends he kept. After he moved to Manhattan, he lived in a sealed-off triplex penthouse, relied on a small, family-first cadre of loyalists and mainly made more enemies than allies (the mayor was a “moron,” elite “so-called social scene” types were “extremely unattractive people,” and on and on). At his casinos in Atlantic City, he was adamant about not mingling with the gambling masses. Now, in Washington, he’s a two-scoops cable-watcher inside the White House when he’s not weekending at his clutch of protective, name-branded bubbles. Trump, forever, has collected an array of acquaintances, fellow celebrities and photo-op props, while friendships mostly have been interchangeable, temporary and transactional.
“He was and is a lonely man,” Jack O’Donnell, a former Trump casino executive, told me.
“One of the loneliest people I’ve ever met,” biographer Tim O’Brien said in an interview. “He lacks the emotional and sort of psychological architecture a person needs to build deep relationships with other people.”
It’s been this way always, because he’s always been foundationally, virulently untrusting. “There’s a wall Donald has that he never lets people penetrate,” a former associate told me. Trump has a dark, dour view of humanity. He considers the world “ruthless,” “brutal” and “cruel.” Through this zero-sum, dog-eat-dog lens, friends aren’t friends — there’s no such thing. “They act nice to your face, but underneath they’re out to kill you,” he wrote in his 2007 book, “Think Big.” “… they want your job, they want your house, they want your money, they want your wife …” Why he’s like this is the subject of vigorous discussion among psychology experts. The deep-seated influence of his formidable father? The wound of the alcohol-fueled death of his more mild-mannered older brother? Simple genetics? Trump is not self-reflective — “I don’t like to analyze myself because I might not like what I see,” he told a biographer several years ago — but he can be self-aware. And on this front, he’s been quite clear, and remarkably consistent.
“My business is so all-encompassing I don’t really get the pleasure of being with friends that much, frankly,” he said to one interviewer in 1980.
“Most of my friendships are business-related because those are the only people I meet,” he said to another 36 years later. “I think I have a lot of friends, and some of the friends I haven’t spoken to in many years … I mean, I think I have a lot of friends, but they’re not friends like perhaps other people have friends, where they’re together all the time …”
Exceptions exist, of course, and Roger Stone is one of them. The inimitable, provocative political operative has known Trump, and has been friends with Trump, since 1979, when Stone was working on Ronald Reagan’s presidential campaign and Roy Cohn introduced him to Trump. “It’s fun to be his friend,” Stone told me. Few people have known Trump longer than Stone, or know him better.
“By definition,” Stone said, “I think anyone who has the job is going to be lonely … Lincoln wrote extensively about the loneliness of the job.”
But Trump, well before he was elected to inhabit the Oval Office, was “psychologically lonely and isolated, emotionally lonely and isolated,” I suggested to Stone. He’s a person who certainly can be socially gregarious and charming — many people say that, because many people have experienced it — but he ultimately prefers to be on his own, I offered. Now that he’s president, it seems these “self-isolating” tendencies have been exacerbated. I wondered if Stone agreed.
“I think,” Stone said, “that’s generally true, yes.”
There’s been so much focus, understandably and unavoidably, on the various parts of Trump’s personality that have helped define his presidency to this point. They are frequently cited as obstacles to his and his administration’s success. His driving belligerence. His fleeting attention span. His sweet tooth for chaos. But in the end, his well-established unwillingness, or inability, to make and maintain relationships that matter might be the most politically debilitating. Or it might not be. This elemental character trait seen by many as such a liability hasn’t stopped him yet. He is, after all, the most powerful person in the world.
“GOOD!”
“I don’t want them.”
He means it.
***
The first people who really noticed Trump’s tendency to withdraw were his classmates. As a teenager at New York Military Academy, in upstate Cornwall-on-Hudson, he often disappeared into his solo room in the barracks after dinner. “The reason I went in the first place,” Trump himself would say later, “was that I didn’t get along with a lot of people.” Pictures in yearbooks in the library at the school show Trump morphing from a gangly boy to a sturdy young man, but this much didn’t change: Classmate Doug Reichel characterized him to me as “very distant.”
“I don’t know anyone that he was particularly close to,” said Ernie Kirk, a classmate who is now an attorney in Georgia.
“He was so competitive,” according to a former roommate, “that everybody who could come close to him he had to destroy.”
“You just couldn’t be friends with him,” said Sandy McIntosh, who was two years younger but knew him from home, too, because their families both had cabanas at the Atlantic Beach Club on Long Island. Trump wouldn’t laugh at his jokes, or anybody else’s, McIntosh recalled. “And you think of humor as a basic, empathic way that friendships are formed — and he just didn’t.”
“I was not a confidant as to his personal thoughts. No one was,” Trump classmate Peter Ticktin wrote not long ago in an email to McIntosh. “He was much to himself. A good guy, but no one’s real buddy.”
In a recent phone conversation, Ticktin, an attorney in Florida and a supporter of Trump, said Trump at NYMA “did have a little touch of aloofness.” But he chalked it up to Trump’s rank early in his senior year as the captain of A Company (“part of being a natural leader is not to be everybody’s buddy”) along with his apparent self-confidence (“he just didn’t need to share his deepest thoughts”) — and Ticktin also attributed it partly to the strict, draconian atmosphere on campus. “He was nobody’s real buddy, but nobody was anybody’s real buddy,” Ticktin said.
It was the same way, though, at Fordham University in the Bronx, where Trump spent his freshman and sophomore years of college playing on the squash team and wearing a three-piece suit to class. Trump and Brian Fitzgibbon sometimes carpooled to school because their families both lived in Jamaica Estates. They were “friendly,” Fitzgibbon said in an interview, but not “friends.” “I can’t recall any real friendships he had at Fordham,” he said. When Trump transferred from Fordham to the University of Pennsylvania, he left without telling people goodbye.
And it was no different, either, down in Philadelphia, where he studied real estate at the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce and boasted in class that he would be bigger than then-nonpareil Manhattan developer Bill Zeckendorf — but, for the most part, one classmate told the Daily Pennsylvanian, Trump “was really off by himself.” He didn’t participate in extracurricular activities or go to fraternity parties or football games. He returned every weekend to New York to work for his father, collecting rents at his outer-borough apartment buildings. “His footprint at Penn was virtually zero,” classmate Lou Calomaris told me. “I don’t think he had any best friends. I never saw him pal around with anyone, quite frankly.”
By 1980, Trump had started to make a name and attract attention, but television interviewer Rona Barrett seemed to sense this defining absence.
“Who would you call if you were in trouble?” she asked Trump.
“Maybe I’ll call you, Rona,” he told her.
“But I’m not your best friend …”
“No,” he said. “I know.”
The whole of the ’80s were heady for Trump. He built Trump Tower, his masterwork until “The Apprentice” led to the Oval Office. “The Art of the Deal” was a runaway bestseller, and he talked about running for president. Even his failures, like his ownership of the New Jersey Generals of the second-rate United States Football League, were successes of a sort, because they boosted his national renown, which was actually the point from the start. And yet as ascendant and ubiquitous as he was, Trump was fairly friendless, too.
It wasn’t just high society, said George Arzt, a veteran, connected New York politico. “Most of the real estate industry separated themselves from him,” Arzt told me. “His personality rubbed people the wrong way.”
“Friendship is not a part of his agenda,” a Trump business associate told Newsweek in 1987. Trump didn’t disagree. “I hate to have to rely on friends,” he said. “I want to rely on myself.” His only “real friends,” he added, were family members.
By early 1990, as he confronted self-inflicted financial calamity and marital failure, Connie Chung from CBS returned to where Barrett had probed 10 years before.
“Do you have a best friend?” she asked.
“Well, I have so many different friends,” Trump said, “and it’d be hard to say a best friend …”
“Is your wife a best friend?”
“She’s a great friend, she’s, uh — I have a father who’s a great friend.”
“I mean, is there somebody that you really confide in?”
“I tend not to confide. I really tend not to confide. I’m very closed in that sense. I think that’s my own, maybe, guarded mechanism.”
“Is it that you don’t trust people?”
“I don’t trust people, no,” Trump said, self-assessing in the most explicit possible terms. “I’m a non-trusting person.”
On newsstands nationwide at the time of this interview was an extensive conversation in Playboy. In it, Trump echoed something he had discussed with Chung, too — the death of his older brother, Fred Trump Jr., and its lasting effects. His brother had been too trusting with too many people, “a fatal mistake,” in Trump’s estimation, and he had been taken advantage of, and that had led to his alcoholism and finally his demise at only 43 years old. “The lesson I learned,” Trump concluded, “was always to keep up my guard one hundred percent, whereas he didn’t.” He ended up later in the interview musing about the prospect of a President Trump. “He wouldn’t trust anyone,” Trump said.
“More than condos or casinos, he’d spent his life building defenses — walls to fend off the people around him,” Wayne Barrett (no relation to Rona) wrote in 1992 in his seminal early biography of Trump. Even the people closest to him, Barrett said, never “really got past his self-contained wariness.”
Ever since, in Trump’s long arc, these walls and this wariness have made for one of the clearest, straightest through lines.
He thinks the world is “horrible.” He thinks people are “vicious.” He thinks they are ceaselessly envious and want what he has. “Trust your instincts,” Trump has said. “Trust yourself.” But nobody else. “There are so many stories about people who have been decimated by people they trusted,” he has said. There’s nobody he admires. He has no heroes. “Donald,” gossip columnist Cindy Adams once said, “is somebody who’s in love mostly with himself.”
“Being on the other side of a relationship with someone like me must be difficult,” Trump told People in 1997.
Including for his wives. “It’s very hard for somebody to be married to me,” he told biographer Michael D’Antonio in 2014.
In “The Art of the Deal,” Trump called his parents “my closest friends.” When they died — his father died in 1999, his mother a year later — it was the closest he ever came to crying, he later claimed. “I don’t believe in crying,” he said in 2005. “… It’s just not my thing. I have nothing against it when someone cries, but when I see a man cry I view it as a weakness. I don’t like seeing men cry. I’ll give you an example. I never met John Gotti, I know nothing about John Gotti, but he went through years of trials. He sat with a stone face. He said, ‘Fuck you.’”
Over the years, Trump has labeled many people his friends. Michael Jackson and Jesse Ventura and Tom Brady. Larry King and Don King and Mike Tyson. Newt Gingrich and Sylvester Stallone and Oprah Winfrey and Howard Stern and Elton John. Carl Icahn and Richard Lefrak and Tom Barrack. (“Tom Barrack is to Donald Trump as Bebe Rebozo was to Richard Nixon,” said Stone, who has a tattoo of Nixon on his back.) Often, Trump’s friends don’t respond to requests to talk about the nature of their relationships with him. Sometimes, they have publicists who call to say quietly that they’re not actually friends. Trump has called “Little” Marco Rubio a friend. He has called “Lyin’” Ted Cruz a friend. He has said he has friends in Europe and Australia and China and Japan. He has, he has said, friends who “aren’t Christian,” friends who are Jewish, friends who are Muslim.
“I have many, many black friends,” he told Don Lemon in 2011.
“I have many friends,” he said two years later at CPAC. “Many, many friends.”
And three years after that, at a campaign rally in New Hampshire heading into its primary vote, he told people at a rally he has lots of rich friends — but they wouldn’t be his friends, anymore, if he became president. “I have no friends, as far as I’m concerned,” he said, an applause line, a laugh line, but a line that struck students of Trump as unwittingly spot-on.
“You know who my friends are?” Trump said. “You’re my friends.”
The cheering crowd.
***
All presidents, as Roger Stone said, grapple with loneliness. It’s a function of the gravity of the position, having to make hard choices nobody else has to or can. But President Trump arrived with the affliction. Looking at the situation in Washington, and thinking back to the college student he knew, Calomaris from Penn invoked Heraclitus, the Greek philosopher, and his most known maxim. “Character is fate.”
For Nixon, Calomaris said, it was his paranoia.
Bill Clinton, he said, thought with “the wrong head.”
With Trump, will isolation be his undoing?
Chris Ruddy has been friendly with Trump for nearly 20 years. The Newsmax CEO and Mar-a-Lago member considered my questions about the president. “You know Harry Truman’s famous line?” he said. “You need a friend in Washington …” Get a dog. (Truman didn’t actually say that, but the point stood.) “He doesn’t need to have close friends,” Ruddy said.
It’s not that simple, Stone said. The trouble, as he sees it, is not that Trump has few friends in Congress, or in the Republican Party, least of all leaders Mitch McConnell and Paul Ryan. “Under no circumstances,” Stone said, “should he consider those guys his friends. That’s a business relationship. Their interests are very different than his.”
Rather, Stone continued, the more pressing issue is that Trump is increasingly isolated within his own White House. “If he has friends,” Stone said, “his friends should be in his administration. I guess my greatest criticism would be he has hired people and appointed people who are not his friends. Didn’t vote for him. Don’t share his worldview. Aren’t necessarily interested in his long-term success.”
Stone added: “It’s not clear to me if he understands the dangers and potential damage that’s posed by surrounding himself with people who are not loyal to him — but, more importantly, not loyal to his agenda.” He named H.R. McMaster. He named Gary Cohn.
“He’s very much his own man,” Stone said of Trump. “This is not a guy who’s ever told what to do, what to say, where to go, who he can meet with, who he can’t meet with, who he can talk to, who he can’t talk to, where he can travel to. He’s really a free spirit and he deeply resents attempts to handle him or manage him or control him. Which is why ultimately I believe General Kelly will fail.”
I asked him if he thinks Trump trusts Kelly.
“Today,” Stone said.
I asked him if he, too, like Trump himself, thinks Trump has trouble trusting anybody.
“I think,” Stone said, “he has the natural suspicions of a Manhattan real estate mogul. That’s a cutthroat world.”
Nonetheless, when Trump needs friends, or new friends, he can make them, Ruddy reasoned. “I think he saw the presidency as more of a monarchy,” Ruddy said. Realizing by now that it’s not, he’s capable of creating necessary relationships, according to Ruddy — talking days before Trump started dealing, or “beaming and scheming,” as his first wife once said, with Democratic leaders Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer, whom he’s called a “clown.”
“I think he’s ultra-gifted in the things in politics you need for relationship-building,” he said. “He’s an impresario at this stuff.” Added Ticktin, the pro-Trump NYMA classmate: “Normal socializing with people, I don’t think that’s ever really been his thing. But he knows how to work a room. He’s charming, and he knows how to connect with people in a room and make them feel like they’ve been acknowledged.”
This, though, is a variant of the gap between campaigning and governing, politicking and legislating. Trump self-evidently can do the former. It remains unclear whether he’s capable of the latter — the give-something-to-get-something, the slow build of capital that then can be cashed in, not flimsy, news-cycle-feeding insta-alliances but the long-game cultivation of critical relationships.
“He’s fundamentally a loner,” said O’Brien, the biographer. “Along the way” — his whole life — “he hasn’t forged deep bonds with other people.”
And that’s what’s been playing out during his presidency, something that was noted early and has been crescendoing ever since, as his original staff — and at least one replacement — has been thinned by firings and resignations.
“He seems both politically and personally isolated these days,” David Gergen told the Washington Post in April. “He doesn’t have anybody whom he trusts,” someone who speaks with the president told CNN in May. “He’s much more isolated than he realizes,” Newt Gingrich told Fox News in August. “The narcissism and paranoia are issues, but the biggest concern is that Donald Trump trusts no one,” Gail Sheehy writes in a forthcoming compilation of essays, “The Dangerous Case of Donald Trump: 27 Psychiatrists and Mental Health Experts Assess a President.” “This will be his downfall—or maybe ours.”
Louise Sunshine is worried. She’s known Trump longer than almost anybody alive. She was a vice president for the Trump Organization from 1973 to 1985. I asked her if she thinks he’s feeling isolated.
“Definitely,” she said.
“He isolates himself when he finds it convenient,” Sunshine went on. It’s what he’s always done. “Always.”
In particular at the points of the greatest duress. Periodically over the last few months, and especially over the last few weeks, I have found myself thinking back to 1990. It’s the moment before the current moment when Trump seemed the most isolated and alone. His business was listing, and he was losing inner-circle loyalists. “It’s come to be Donald against the world,” an adviser told biographer Gwenda Blair at the time. His marriage was over. His oldest son, then 12, angry and hurt, wasn’t speaking to him, it would later be reported. In telephone public opinion polls, readers of New York tabloids were siding overwhelmingly with his wife, not him. “When a man leaves a woman, especially when it was perceived that he has left for a piece of ass — a good one! — there are 50 percent of the population who will love the woman who was left,” Trump raged to Marie Brenner of Vanity Fair.
But past the familiar, reflexive bombast, the early portion of that year always has seemed to me to be an unusual and even unique stretch in the scope of Trump’s life. Rewatch that Connie Chung interview, and re-read that Playboy conversation, and he presents as not only irritable but rattled — vulnerable, or at least his version. Even his book that came out in 1990, “Surviving at the Top,” is in my mind different from all the other books he’s put out over the decades, so many same-sounding collections of business tips and self-help schlock. It has plenty of platitudes, too, but there’s also in the text and between the lines a certain detectable pathos. The title itself is an amalgam of a plea and a lie. That spring, according to Vanity Fair, Trump holed up in Trump Tower, in an apartment separate from his soon-to-be-ex up in the penthouse, ordering in burgers and fries from New York Delicatessen, his belly getting soft, his hair getting long, staying on his back in his bed, staying up late, calling people to talk, staring at the ceiling.
“You remind me of Howard Hughes,” a friend told him.
“Thanks,” Trump said. “I admire him.”
He wrote about the tycoon turned neurotic hermit in “Surviving at the Top.” “The Howard Hughes story is fascinating to me,” Trump told readers, “because it shows that it’s possible to fall very far very fast. As time goes on I find myself thinking more and more about Howard Hughes and even, to some degree, identifying with him.” He cited Hughes’ aversion to germs, and the downsides of fame, like when he’s approached in restaurants and people end up “spraying their good wishes all over my food.”
“Every time that happens,” Trump wrote, “Howard Hughes and his reclusive lifestyle look a little less crazy to me.”
Wayne Barrett addressed Trump’s interest in Hughes in his biography. Barrett had been reporting on Trump since the late ’70s. His book came out in 1992.
“Over the years,” Barrett wrote, “he had openly toyed with a final surreal twist to the plot that had become his life — he told friends that he might end up a Howard Hughes-like recluse, squirreled away, allowing his fingernails to grow longer than his stubby fingers. That poignant script may have appealed to the loner quality in him that had always kept him apart. The Hughes scenario only worked, though, if he could figure out a way back to the top.”
He did.


A language school in Croatia launched a marketing campaign featuring Melania Trump, telling potential students, “Just imagine how far you can go with a little bit of English.”
The Zagreb-based American Institute, which describes itself as “a center for the promotion of the English language, American culture, and the American higher education system,” put up a giant billboard featuring an image of the First Lady, who is from neighboring Slovenia, in front of the Stars and Stripes and its message to Croatians wanting to improve their language skills.
On Facebook, the institute wrote: “We entered the billboard game.”
According to Total Croatia News, the campaign is the work of Ivis Burić, who said the billboard wasn’t meant to be offensive: “The message is unambiguously referring to a person who, with a little knowledge of a foreign language, has become one of the most powerful individuals on the planet.”
As well as speaking English and Slovenian, Melania Trump speaks French, Serbian and German.



In the European Union, change comes in fits and starts. The early phases are often painfully slow; the later ones recklessly fast. So the true significance of Jean-Claude Juncker’s speech this week may well emerge only in retrospect. My early guess is that it will go down in the history books as a momentous step.
I say this not knowing whether Juncker will achieve what seemed to be the main political objective underlying his State of the European Union address: to close the gap between the countries of Western Europe and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
In practical terms, that means resolving differences over the posting of workers, the settlement of refugees, membership of the eurozone and the Schengen zone. Put in other terms, he is trying to preserve the legacy of Helmut Kohl, the long-time chancellor of Germany who was Juncker’s mentor and who took political risks in order to reconcile east and west.
Juncker attended the funeral rites for Kohl in the very same European Parliament chamber 10 weeks earlier. Hence, perhaps, his speech’s unexpectedly ambitious tone, and the reference to life’s disappointments being what you leave undone.
But even if Juncker is thwarted in his ambitions to bind the EU27 closer together after Brexit, even if his impassioned defense of European values and the rule of law makes no impact in Poland and Hungary, his speech may yet prove to be a landmark in the EU’s evolution because of what it said about reform of the bloc’s institutions.
The suggestion that the president of the European Commission and the president of the European Council should be combined was swiftly derided in some quarters as an attempt to resurrect an argument that took place during the Convention on the Future of Europe back in 2001-2003.
We made our choice, its opponents say, and those decisions were enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon.
But that is to misread the significance of the step taken before the European Parliament election of 2014: that each of the main political groups would nominate a candidate for the post of president of the Commission — known among EU obsessives as the Spitzenkandidaten process (possibly because Germany was one of the few countries that was aware it was happening). Because, across the EU as a whole, center-right parties belonging to the European People’s Party won more seats than parties belonging to the center-left Socialists and Democrats, Juncker became Commission president rather than the S&D candidate, Martin Schulz.
The Spitzenkandidaten process is open to criticism. Whatever the pretense, the Parliament’s elections are an agglomeration of national contests; so Juncker’s name did not appear on ballot papers outside Luxembourg and nobody could cast a vote for Schulz outside Germany. Not all political groups fielded candidates in all countries. The contest was billed as a popular vote, but was decided by the number of seats won, not the number of votes cast (the S&D won more votes than the EPP).
Nevertheless, the Spitzenkandidaten contest will be repeated in 2019. Although championed by the European Parliament (which wanted to give its own electoral contests a focus and significance they had previously lacked), no major national figure in Europe is prepared to stand up and say that the Spitzenkandidaten process should not happen next time round. In the meantime, the expectations for 2019 are gaining in momentum — witness Juncker saying in his speech this week that European electoral campaigns should start earlier and there should be transnational lists of candidates.
“If you want to strengthen European democracy, then you cannot reverse the democratic progress seen with the creation of lead candidates — Spitzenkandidaten,” he said.
His proposal to combine the presidencies of the Commission and the Council is of a piece with this thinking.
This is how Juncker put it: “More democracy means more efficiency. Europe would function better if we were to merge the presidents of the European Commission and the European Council … Europe would be easier to understand if one captain was steering the ship. Having a single president would better reflect the true nature of our European Union as both a Union of states and a Union of citizens.”
I find much to disagree with in that statement. I do not equate democracy and efficiency. Many tyrannies are efficient, in their own way. Germany’s Bundesrat probably makes the country more democratic but not more efficient. But Juncker is surely right that Europe would be easier to understand.
One of the reasons the EU struggles for acceptance is that it does not fit the expectation that political systems are composed of an executive, a legislature and a judiciary, separated roughly along the lines described by Montesquieu in the mid-18th century. The U.S. constitution most famously and clearly embodies that separation of powers, but it is also found in most European countries.
But the EU was created differently. It is not a state and it is not a government. The role of a legislature is spread across the Council of the EU (the representatives of the member countries), the European Parliament and the European Commission. Their decision-making power varies according to the subject matter.
The role of an executive is also split — between the Council and the Commission. At times the Commission even has a judicial function. The EU’s arrangements simply do not fit the Montesquieu model. In many national setups, the government derives its authority from approval by an elected parliament. In the EU, there are competing electoral mandates. The Parliament has since 1979 been directly elected. But the Council of the EU is composed of representatives of elected governments. So whose claim to a democratic mandate is more valid?
These ambiguities are not accidental. The EU’s founding fathers took great care not to create a supranational government that would be perceived as a threat to national governments. The main decision-making body, the Council, was composed of representatives of those governments. The right to initiate legislation lay with the Commission, whose members were not elected but nominated by elected governments. The fairly complicated voting arrangements and the Commission’s hybrid role were supposed to guard against both tyranny and stasis. But the result was something hard to understand and to explain.
Juncker’s suggestion that the presidencies of the Commission and the European Council should be combined would be a step toward a more recognizable structure. It would benefit the Parliament, which would be able to portray itself as the directly elected legislature, and to portray the Commission and Council as the executive/government, supported by their respective administrations. Furthermore, the president of that government would owe his or her mandate to the Spitzenkandidaten contest, to the European Parliament elections, rather than, as in the past, to the collective decision of nationally elected governments.
Those who dismiss Juncker’s suggestion as unrealistic miss the point. It does not matter that at this moment his idea would not get unanimous backing in the European Council. Nor does it matter that there is a paradox underlying Juncker’s ambition to render the EU more understandable: he wants to make the EU more akin to a state even though, as he said in his speech, “Our Union is not a state.”
What matters is that another heavy blow has been aimed against the EU’s existing institutional arrangements, and that no one is prepared to explain or defend them, not even the president of the Commission.
In the longer term, Juncker wants to put the EU on a more secure footing, but in the short term, he’s loosened the foundations.
Tim King writes POLITICO‘s Brussels Sketch.


WASHINGTON — A spokesman for former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, Jason Maloni, spent about two-and-a-half hours testifying Friday before a federal grand jury probing potential collusion between the campaign and Russia.
Maloni arrived at the courthouse just before 9 a.m. and disappeared behind the frosted glass doors of the grand jury suite on the third floor of the federal courthouse near the U.S. Capitol.
When he emerged just before noon, the Manafort spokesman spoke briefly with assembled reporters and photographers, but declined to go into detail about what he was asked.
“I was ordered to appear before the grand jury,” said Maloni, with the communications firm Jade Rock. “I answered questions and I’ve been dismissed.”
Several members of special counsel Robert Mueller’s prosecution team departed the courthouse shortly after Maloni. They did not comment to reporters.
Maloni’s appearance, reported Thursday by POLITICO, drew the first sizable contingent of media to stake out a Russia probe witness’s grand jury appearance — a ritual common in previous Washington scandals.


A senior member of the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) was criticized after a video emerged of him saying Germans have a “right to be proud” of German soldiers who served in both world wars.
“If the French, quite rightly, are proud of their emperor, and Britons of [Horatio] Nelson and [Winston] Churchill, then we have the right to be proud of the German soldiers’ achievements in the two world wars,” AfD leader Alexander Gauland said in the video, reported on by BuzzFeed Germany Thursday, but published on the AfD’s YouTube channel on September 6.
The footage comes from a September 2 AfD event in the state of Thuringia. In response to his comments, someone in the crowd screamed “bravo” and others applauded, the video shows.
Gauland also said that Germans should no longer be confronted by the 12 years that Adolf Hitler was in power, saying these years “no longer affect our identity today.”
In response to the video, Justice Minister Heiko Maas said that “whoever speaks like that accept being called a right-wing extremist.”
“We must never forget the crimes that Germany committed,” Maas added. “Taking responsibility for this makes us strong.”
Another AfD politician, Björn Höcke, came under fire earlier this year for a speech he made in which he called Berlin’s Holocaust memorial a “monument of shame,” and said Germans needed to do a “180-degree turnaround” on how they reflect on their country’s Nazi past.
Gauland, a co-founder of the AfD, is considered a hardliner on immigration as well as on social and cultural issues. In August, he suggested that Aydan Özoğuz, the German government’s commissioner for immigration, refugees and integration, should be “disposed of in Anatolia.” Özoğuz is the daughter of Turkish immigrants and was born in Germany. Gauland later said that he would not use the same phrase again, but refused to apologize.


BERLIN — German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives voiced reservations Friday about European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker’s proposal to combine his post with the presidency of the European Council.
Michael Stübgen, an MP from Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union (CDU) who speaks for the party on European policy, said the proposal would “intervene massively in the institutional equilibrium of the EU.”
Juncker suggested the idea in his State of the Union speech to the European Parliament on Wednesday as part of a raft of proposals to drive forward EU integration. At the moment, the Commission president runs the EU’s executive body while the president of the Council coordinates among heads of state and government. But Jucker said that “Europe would be easier to understand if one captain was steering the ship.”
As the largest country in the EU, Germany will have a major say in whether many of Juncker’s proposals become reality. But Stübgen said detailed deliberations about his agenda would have to wait until after Germany’s general election, which takes place a week from Sunday.
“We will have to discuss his ideas one-by-one after the election,” he said.
With Merkel’s conservative bloc holding a big lead of about 15 percentage points over her key rival Martin Schulz’s Social Democrats, the longtime chancellor is cruising to a fourth term in office.
The key question of who will serve as her junior coalition partners, however, is unresolved. CDU officials in the Bundestag stress that this will have a substantial impact on the priorities and policies of the next government, including reforms to the EU proposed by Juncker.
The Social Democrats, Merkel’s current partners in government, gave a slightly warmer welcome to Juncker’s proposal — but stopped well short of endorsing the idea.
“Generally, Juncker’s proposal is to be welcomed, at least to have this discussion, regardless of whether it will actually lead to results or not,” Norbert Spinrath, a Social Democrat MP who is also the party spokesman on European policy, told POLITICO.
“Juncker wants to make clear with his proposals that the Council and the Commission aren’t automatically two different sides of the same coin.”
Juncker briefed Merkel ahead of his address about what he was going to say, German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble told public broadcaster ARD Wednesday night, adding that the speech was “in line with our basic ideas for European policy.”
However, speaking to journalists on the sidelines of a meeting of EU finance ministers in Tallinn, Estonia on Friday, Schäuble expressed caution about all EU members joining the euro — another proposal in Juncker’s speech.
“For membership in the currency union, economic conditions need to be fulfilled,” Schäuble said. “As long as they are not fulfilled, it’s not in the interest of a country to become a member.”
Merkel herself struck a similar note on Friday after a meeting in Berlin with French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe.
“It’s already the case today that we strive for as many countries as possible to join the euro,” she said. “Any country that wants the euro and meets the criteria can join the euro.”
On Thursday, German Interior Thomas de Maizière also expressed skepticism about Juncker’s proposal to open up the travel-free Schengen area to all EU member countries.
He shared Juncker’s general vision for the EU, De Maizière said, “but, frankly speaking, there is still a long way to go.”


The Spanish government will partially take over Catalonia’s finances to ensure “not one euro” goes toward organizing an independence referendum set for October 1, Finance Minister Cristóbal Montoro announced Friday.
“Due to the situation of manifest illegality in Catalonia, [the government] has established a mechanism of payment to guarantee public services to the Catalans,” Montoro said at a press conference.
The proposed measure would partially replace the Catalan government with the national government as the institution responsible for the disbursement of payments to education, health and social services, according to Barcelona-based newspaper La Vanguardia. “It is a new payment system,” Montoro said. “It does not affect the powers devolved to the Catalan government.” The finance minister also promised that state employees will continue to be paid on time.
The measure would also require Catalonia to report and seek approval from Madrid for any short-term debts incurred, which it will pay directly.
“We have taken this decision because we cannot have faith in some authorities who are going to go their own way,” Montoro said, referring to the secessionist Catalan government. “What they are doing is not admissible. It is not legitimate nor is it assuring.”
The system would be in place “during the time that this exceptional situation lasts,” the finance minister added, to “prevent a situation in which the leaders of Catalonia hurt the citizens.” Montoro gave the Catalan government 48 hours to accept Madrid’s terms or he warned the Spanish government will take control of Catalonia’s purse unilaterally.
The announcement comes in response to a letter by Catalan Vice President Oriol Junqueras, informing the Madrid government that Catalonia would no longer be sending weekly expense reports to Madrid as the October 1 referendum nears.
The Spanish government has maintained that the Catalan government’s promise to hold an independence referendum is unconstitutional and illegal. Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has repeatedly promised “there will not be a referendum.”
The Catalan government’s draft referendum bill stipulated that if a majority of Catalans vote for independence, Catalonia would secede within 48 hours of the result.
Montoro said he would appear in front of the Spanish parliament to explain the measure next week.


A coalition consisting of the Social Democrats (SPD), the liberal Free Democrats (FDP) and the Greens would be the best outcome of September’s election, Germany’s Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel, a member of the SPD, said in an interview published Friday.
Speaking to German broadcaster SWR, Gabriel said he was a “big fan” of the so-called “traffic light” coalition model. He added that previous coalitions between the SPD and FDP were responsible for some of the “best times” the country had seen.
Recent polls show that together the SPD, FDP and Greens would not have enough support to form a coalition. A survey by broadcaster ZDF published on Friday put the SPD at 23 percent support, the FDP at 10 percent and the Greens at 8 percent — together 41 percent support, and less than a majority needed for a coalition.
A separate survey published Thursday by broadcaster ARD showed that 46 percent of respondents would prefer a coalition between Chancellor Angela Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc, the FDP and the Greens. Another 45 percent would like to see a grand coalition between the CDU/CSU group and the SPD, the model of the last four years.
With her CDU/CSU alliance polling at between 36 and 37 percent, Merkel is widely expected to secure another term as chancellor and thus would to be in charge of forming a new coalition.


A bespoke trade and customs deal with the EU to see the U.K. through a Brexit transition should be easy, says the British government — provided that Brussels is prepared to make it happen.
It’s a line that Chancellor Philip Hammond was again pushing in a speech Thursday at the Visegrad 4 summit in Budapest, Hungary. He insisted a special bespoke deal with the EU is possible because the U.K. is in “perfect regulatory alignment on Day One,” with regulatory frameworks and standards that “exactly match.”
If only it were that easy.
Sure, as a member of the bloc, the U.K. is currently obliged to follow EU rules and regulations. And those rules are meant to be transposed into British law en masse via the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill — which passed a significant parliamentary hurdle earlier this week.
So both sides are coming from a position of total convergence. Even so, it is unlikely the U.K.’s body of law and regulation will match “exactly” that of the EU, even on Day One.
That was the point made by Cambridge University law professor Eilis Ferran in testimony to the House of Lords EU financial sub-committee on Wednesday. Financial services is a good example of a sector where rules have to be very similar as a prerequisite for access to the single market. Once the U.K. leaves the EU, financial firms will lose their “passporting” rights to provide services to member countries, and will only have more limited access if the U.K. rules they follow are close enough to those in the EU (or “equivalent,” in the legal jargon).
“We’ve had a lot of talk about ‘Well, it will be easy to badge us as equivalent on exit day, because we match. Well, I don’t think we necessarily will match,” Ferran said.
The withdrawal bill gives the government the ability — via so-called Henry VIII powers — to tweak the rules to make them fit for purpose, for example by removing references to EU supervisory agencies. The breadth and depth of changes remains to be seen, but it means that it can’t be taken for granted that U.K. rules will look “exactly” like EU rules, Ferran said.
“We will already kind of be doing the surgery on the body of EU law,” from the minute the withdrawal bill becomes an act, she said, so “we are not going to match, necessarily, at exit day.” And that process of changing the rules will probably continue over the two years allowed by the withdrawal bill.
“An EU institution looking at the withdrawal bill at the moment would not feel there is assurance that systems will stay reasonably the same,” she said.
Without that assurance, a special deal looks less likely.
This insight is from POLITICO‘s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.


President Donald Trump implied authorities were monitoring those responsible for setting off explosives in the London subway early Friday morning, adding that internet access to “loser terrorists” should be cut off.
The bombing in southwest London, which authorities are calling a “terrorist incident,” left 18 people wounded. None of the injuries are thought to be life-threatening.
“Another attack in London by a loser terrorist. These are sick and demented people who were in the sights of Scotland Yard. Must be proactive!” Trump tweeted early Friday morning.
He added in a second tweet that “loser terrorists must be dealt with in a much tougher manner. The internet is their main recruitment tool which we must cut off & use better!”
It’s unclear what information, if any, the president is using to say the suspects “were in the sights” of Scotland Yard.
Speaking to the Independent, a Metropolitan Police spokesperson dismissed Trump’s tweet, calling it “speculation.”
“We don’t even know who the suspects are so it’s a bit difficult to say,” the spokesperson was quoted as saying.
Nick Timothy, a former aide to Theresa May, also dismissed the tweet, saying it “so unhelpful from leader of our ally and intelligence partner.”
Prime Minister Theresa May issued a statement on the incident, saying, “My thoughts are with those injured at Parsons Green and emergency services who are responding bravely to this terrorist incident.”
Trump also followed his tweets on the London incident with one criticizing the administration of former President Barack Obama while claiming success against fighting terrorists.
“We have made more progress in the last nine months against ISIS than the Obama Administration has made in 8 years,” he said. “Must be proactive & nasty!”


PARIS — Haters gonna hate. That was the thrust of Marine Le Pen’s message in an interview published Friday in response to critics who say she should no longer run the far-right National Front.
The 49-year-old former lawyer, who now sits in the French parliament, faces increasing criticism over her failed election campaign. Critics — including Robert Ménard, the rabble rousing mayor of Béziers in southern France, who gets support from the National Front but isn’t a party member — argue that it’s time for Le Pen to step down over her strategic missteps against Emmanuel Macron.
In an interview with Le Parisien, Le Pen lashed out at Ménard, who was once an ally but has always disagreed with the National Front’s stance on the euro.
“I can hear criticism, as long as it comes with constructive proposals and doesn’t come from people who make criticism their profession,” she said.
The National Front will hold a “lively” debate and Le Pen will travel around France to canvass opinion, with a vote on the party’s future strategy to be held in early 2018, she added.
But Le Pen stopped short of saying what lessons, if any, she drew from her defeat, or how her party would adapt itself to be more successful at the ballot box.
Throughout the campaign, polls showed that Le Pen’s insistence on promising a withdrawal from the eurozone was toxic to bourgeois and senior voters. Critics are now pushing for the National Front to adopt a classical right-wing agenda, combining strong opposition to immigration with an insistence on preserving French identity.
Le Pen brushed aside such suggestions, saying that people are “trying to tug me this way and that.”
“But they have forgotten that I am very solid,” she said. “I will present to our members a line I have championed for a long time: a balance between those fundamentals [on social welfare] and at the same time this aspiration to protect our patriots. I haven’t changed my way of thinking. I am as I am.”
Le Pen also promised to revamp her party from top to bottom, including a name change. “I have a few ideas for the name,” she said, adding that she had already registered a few options with the copyright office.
While Le Pen remains the only obvious option as National Front leader, she presides over a troubled party that has ceded its position as Macron’s main opposition to far-left leader Jean-Luc Mélenchon and his France Unbowed movement.
The Front’s vice president, Florian Philippot, founded an “internal think tank” dubbed Les Patriotes, or “The Patriots,” that could easily morph into its own party. He appears increasingly independent from Le Pen, competing with her for airtime and last week appearing on TV at the same time as the party leader.
At the European Parliament, the National Front faces hefty fines over misuse of accredited assistants, and a loss of influence. With elections to the Senate coming up on September 24, a divided National Front is likely to lose ground to competitors on its left and right flanks.
Laurent Wauquiez, a member of the conservative Les Républicains party who is hoping to become its next leader, is also giving the National Front a run for its money by pushing harder right-wing views.
“Mr. Wauquiez can toughen his positions and show his muscles, we know perfectly well that once he is at the head of the Républicains party he will abandon everything he said, like the others,” said Le Pen.


German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble warned against imposing strong sanctions on Hungary, despite their refusal to accept refugees under the mandatory EU relocation scheme.
The EU should make an effort to improve not worsen relations with countries that oppose its refugee policy, Schäuble told German newspaper Passauer Neue Presse.
The finance minister rejected cutting off funds to Hungary, saying: “It would be smart not to come out with the big guns right away.” The EU needed to find the “right mix of consistency and patience,” he added.
Earlier this month, Europe’s top court dismissed a challenge by Hungary and Slovakia against the EU’s relocation policy for asylum seekers, upholding the EU’s right to oblige member countries to take in refugees. Budapest has since rejected the European Court of Justice’s decision, causing consternation in Brussels and some European capitals.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel took a harder line earlier this week in an interview with Berliner Zeitung, in which she called Budapest’s position “unacceptable.”
When asked if Hungary’s refusal means it must exit the EU, Merkel responded that the issue “touches on one of Europe’s fundamental questions, because Europe is, for me, a common area of justice. We will have to talk about this at the European Council in October.”


An explosion in an underground train carriage at Parsons Green station in southwest London is being treated as a “terrorist incident” by police.
The National Health Service reported that 29 people were treated for injuries following the blast, with 21 still in hospital as of 5:30 p.m. local time. The London Ambulance Service said that none seemed to be in a serious or life-threatening condition. Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley told reporters that most of the injuries appeared to be flash burns.
Rowley explained that police believe the explosion at about 8:20 a.m. local time on a train at Parsons Green station was caused by an improvised explosive device.
Pictures of the alleged explosive device — a white bucket inside a plastic bag in an underground train carriage — circulated on social media but the blast did not seem to have caused major damage, according to the BBC.
Police and other emergency services evacuated and cordoned off the station.
“Londoners particularly can expect to see an enhanced police presence, particularly across the transport system across the day,” Rowley said.
The underground train line between Wimbledon and Earl’s Court was shut down and police advised the public to avoid the area.
When asked if there was anyone in custody or if police knew whether the person who set off the device was on the train at the time, Rowley responded: “It’s very much a live investigation and we’re following down the lines of inquiry.
“I’d ask the public to remain vigilant across London, and to be alert in assisting us but not to be alarmed.”
In a statement, Prime Minister Theresa May said: “My thoughts are with those injured at Parsons Green and emergency services who are responding bravely to this terrorist incident.”
The London Ambulance Service said in a statement: “Our initial priority is to assess the level and nature of injuries.”



Cette semaine, Pierre Briançon et Nicholas Vinocur parlent des grèves, de Macron et de la zone euro, et de la taxe sur les GAFA.



The Icelandic government is on the verge of collapse after its junior coalition partner announced late Thursday that it was quitting, and another called for a new election late Thursday, Bloomberg reported.
The Bright Future party announced its departure from Iceland’s center-right government after it emerged that Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson’s father wrote a letter in support of a convicted child molester to expunge the man’s record.
The failure of Benediktsson, of the Independence Party, to disclose the letter was a “serious breach of trust,” the Bright Party said.
“That goes against our policies here at Bright Future on transparency and a good way of working,” said party leader Ottarr Proppe.
Bright Future’s exit means the government has only a one-seat majority in the 63-member parliament. But even that is now in jeopardy, after the Reform Party — which has eight seats in parliament — called for a new election citing “strong feelings” about the scandal.
The government was formed in January, after the resignation of former Prime Minister Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson over a Panama Papers-led scandal led to a snap election in October last year.


Le Monde reported that the Italian government struck illicit deals with Libyan traffickers and militias to prevent migrants from arriving on Italian shores — a deal that seems to have succeeded, given a 20 percent dip in arrivals compared to last year. Le Figaro reported on the government’s decision to revamp a security program called Sentinel, in which troops patrol public spaces and tourist attractions such as the Eiffel Tower and the Louvre. Left-leaning Libération reported on a new study that found glyphosate, a herbicide, on more than half of 30 products tested, including cereals, pasta and lentils.


Chancellor Angela Merkel met with representatives of the auto industry on the campaign trail on Thursday. In the wake of the Dieselgate scandal, Frankfurter Allgemeine led with Merkel saying that the “automobile industry has to regain trust.” The Süddeutsche Zeitung reported that the European Commission had bowed to German, French and Austrian pressure in allowing an extension of internal border controls.


The Telegraph reported that cuts to the military are hurting the British navy, making it “unable to send ships to sea.” The Mirror and the Guardian reported on the U.K. National Health Service employees’ demand for higher wages after the government signaled a willingness to end salary caps for police and prison officers.


Catalan President Carles Puigdemont gave a speech last night, which the Spanish media marked as the start of the campaign for the Catalan independence referendum scheduled on October 1. The national government still deems this illegal. “Separatism opens campaign without the government stopping it,” led El Mundo, in a not-so-subtle dig at the government for failing to do more. Pro-independence paper El Punt Avui led with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker’s comments that he will “respect” an independence vote if it comes to pass.




Austria, France, Germany, Denmark and Norway have called on Brussels to extend the length of time members of the passport-free Schengen area can reintroduce border controls from two to four years.
“We call on the [European] Commission to submit draft legislation aimed at amending the provisions … to allow member states to reintroduce internal border controls for periods longer than currently provided for,” according to an unofficial document seen by POLITICO.
At the peak of the migration crisis in September 2015, five countries — Germany, Austria, Denmark, Sweden and Norway, which is not in the EU — reintroduced internal border controls to stem the flow of refugees and asylum seekers. In May, the countries were authorized to extend the controls until mid-November.
France, which reintroduced border controls in November 2015 in response to the heightened terrorist threat, is scheduled to keep them in place until the end of October.
With the migration crisis arguably under control, the threat of terrorism is reason enough to maintain border controls in some cases, the countries said.
“This [time] limitation does not match the needs in the context of a long-term terrorist threat,” according to the document, which stressed that the reintroduction of internal border controls is essential to strengthening “the area’s capacity to cope with crisis situations.”
Currently, internal border controls can be reintroduced in exceptional circumstances at some border checks for a period of up to six months. These can be prolonged for additional six month periods, up to a maximum duration of two years.
The document proposes to extend this maximum duration to four years “where there are exceptional circumstances.”
Speaking to reporters ahead of a meeting of interior ministers Thursday, Dimitris Avramopoulos, the European commissioner for migration and home affairs, said there was no reason for countries to extend border controls in the Schengen area.
“The main reasons, justified reasons … for prolongation of the internal border controls are not there anymore,” Avramopoulos said. “I believe it’s the moment to go back to the normal functioning of Schengen.”
The Commission is expected to make an assessment of the request at the end of September.


U.S. President Donald Trump on Thursday signed a congressional joint resolution condemning the violence of neo-Nazis and white supremacists during a rally in Virginia last month, despite his equivocating on the matter during a meeting the day before with the Senate’s only black Republican.
“As Americans, we condemn the recent violence in Charlottesville and oppose hatred, bigotry, and racism in all forms,” Trump said in a statement issued by the office of the press secretary late Thursday.
He added: “No matter the color of our skin or our ethnic heritage, we all live under the same laws, we all salute the same great flag, and we are all made by the same almighty God.”
Yet while recounting his Oval Office meeting with Senator Tim Scott (R.-S.C.), an African-American leader with whom he discussed race relations and the Charlottesville events, the president on Thursday reverted to rhetoric that seemingly spread the blame for the violence between both sides.
“I think especially in light of the advent of Antifa, if you look at what’s going on there, you have some pretty bad dudes on the other side also, and essentially that’s what I said,” Trump said aboard Air Force One, referring to the militant movement of self-styled anti-fascists. “Now because of what’s happened since then with Antifa, when you look at really what’s happened since Charlottesville, a lot of people are saying — and people have actually written — ‘Gee, Trump may have a point.’”
The president’s initial response to the deadly clashes between hate groups and counterprotesters in Virginia, in which he blamed “many sides” for escalating hostilities, drew widespread criticism from lawmakers and business leaders across the political spectrum. In a news conference several days later, the Trump doubled down on the comments, lashing out at the “alt-left” for its alleged part in instigating the clashes.
Earlier this week, congressional lawmakers passed a resolution condemning the deadly white supremacist rally in Virginia on August 11 and 12. The measure included language urging Trump to “speak out against hate groups that espouse racism, extremism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, and White supremacy.”
White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders announced the president’s intent to sign the resolution during a press briefing on Wednesday, telling reporters that Trump “was clear in his initial statement” condemning “hatred, bigotry, racism of all forms.


LONDON — The U.K.’s Liberal Democrats put all their chips on hoovering up the pro-EU vote in June’s general election and lost. They are still trying to understand why.
On the face of it, this should be the best of times for Britain’s most pro-European party. With the ruling Tory Party pursuing a hard Brexit and the opposition Labour Party fudging its post-EU policy to hide a profound split on the issue, the U.K.’s third party ought to be cleaning up.
In theory, more than 48 percent of the electorate are being dragged out of the EU against their will — voters with whom the Lib Dems might expect to have had a hearing.
Add to that a Labour leadership forging ever further to the left on economic policy, and the empty terrain in the center of British politics looks vast.
But the snap election did not produce a Macron-style moment for the pro-EU center ground. The Lib Dems managed to advance their cause by just four extra seats on top of the measly eight they already had. It left them on just 7.4 percent of the vote, a touch down on their calamitous result in 2015, when they were punished heavily by the electorate for going into a coalition with David Cameron’s Tories.
As Lib Dems gather in the southern seaside town of Bournemouth for their annual conference Saturday, the party is still digesting the lessons of a deeply disappointing and puzzling election result that has left them at odds over just how Europhile to be.
Formed in 1988 from the merger of the Liberals and the Social Democratic Party, the Lib Dems fought their way against an electoral system that punishes smaller parties, from 20 MPs at the 1992 poll to a high point of 57 in 2010.
Known for bookish activists and unshowy MPs, they prospered through the first decade after the turn of the century from a distinctive stance on the Iraq War that got them noticed by a section of the electorate looking for a protest vote against the two main parties.
Many expected wrapping themselves in the European flag after the referendum would provide a similar appeal.
On one front, their pro-EU gamble paid off. The party’s membership has doubled since the referendum to over 100,000. But that surge did not translate into broader electoral gains, either in the May local elections or the snap general election in June.
The difficulty the Liberal Democrats face, says Joe Twyman, head of political and social research for Europe at the polling company YouGov, is that the hard Remain position is “not one that is particularly popular.”
While polls suggest the country is still split down the middle on Brexit, a significant proportion of Remain voters are not interested in revisiting the referendum result, he said. That left the Liberal Democrats with a pool of 23 to 25 percent who actually want a second referendum, according to Twyman.
Nor did Remain voters neatly map to Lib Dem strongholds. Many areas of the country where the party have built their strongest support voted to leave the EU in the 2016 referendum, particularly in the south west. Across the country as a whole there might have appeared to be an attractive pro-European vote for the taking, but many of these voters were in seats the party stood little chance of winning.
Add to that the demographic of many hard Remainers — young and university-educated — a group angered by the party’s broken promise on university tuition fees that they raised substantially while in the coalition government. Many of those voters broke for Labour in the June poll.
Another problem with betting the house on their pro-EU credentials was that in the event the election turned out to be more a verdict on austerity, rather than on Brexit, said a former Lib Dem official who worked on campaign. As joint architects of the previous austerity government, that left the Lib Dems on “trickier ground” the official said.
And the election came “too early,” the official added, because the “outcomes of Brexit had not become obvious to people.” Public sentiment on Brexit is already starting to shift now that the reality of the negotiations is becoming clear.
Another problem had nothing to do with the party’s policy on Europe, but centered on their then leader. Tim Farron, who is a devout Christian, refused to say whether he believed homosexuality was a sin on repeated occasions during the campaign, before eventually clarifying his stance. The story overshadowed their pitch to voters and prevented the party from getting its message across.
“We had limited bandwidth and when you are the third or the forth party you have a certain amount of questions each day, you struggle to get coverage and we had questions about his faith,” the Lib Dem official said.
One senior Lib Dem MP from Brexit-supporting North Norfolk said the party must now rethink it’s stance on Europe.
Norman Lamb, a former health minister who stood against Farron in the 2015 leadership contest, said the anxieties of a lot of those voted for Brexit needed to be understood by liberals.
“I think this debate on Brexit is a very binary debate — Remain versus Brexit. My plea, in a way, is for fresh thinking from liberals and progressives, not just in the U.K. but across Europe, actually saying, ‘Hang on a minute, have people got a legitimate anxiety here about the way the EU has evolved?'”
Lamb said he was committed to the “original ideal” of the EU: that countries work together to bind the Continent together to stop conflict but added the institution has “lost its way.”
“If you think about the way it has treated the Greek population, it is pretty shameful and the euro is a flawed project … There is this sort of sense of technocrats at the center of Europe imposing their judgment about solutions, for instance about the Greek debt crisis, over and above the views and interests of the people of that country,” he said.
He said that the EU’s “sclerotic” and inflexible decision-making process also needed to change. “I think a more dynamic, more flexible model would be much better for the modern age and actually would start to address people’s anxieties and fears which in many respects are legitimate,” he added.
Tom Brake, the party’s Brexit spokesperson, said new members had provided an extra “pro-European tendency” and they might want Liberal Democrats to push for parliament to overturn the referendum decision. But he reiterated the party’s current view was that the vote could only be reversed by another referendum.
“I don’t expect the party to change its view on that issue, but there will be debate about it at conference,” he said.
Brake acknowledged that while there was a very strong demand within the party for a vote on the terms of whatever Brexit deal the government achieves, there was less appetite for such a national poll in the country as a whole.
He said the challenge now was to convince a wider section of the public of that: “Our view is that events will help us in that respect because the evidence from the [Brexit] negotiations is that they are going to be incredibly tough, and the promises that were made, and the guarantees given — that this would be a straightforward process at the end of which the U.K. would come out a clear winner — I think the negotiations so far show that is not going to be the case.”
“We are not going to walk away with everything that we want. Once the public see that, then I think the appetite perhaps for a vote on the terms of the deal will increase,” he added.


MADRID — The mayor of Barcelona on Thursday said residents “will be able to participate” in the referendum on Catalan independence called for October 1 without putting city hall and public servants at risk of reprisal.
Ada Colau didn’t provide details of how voting in Barcelona, Catalonia’s largest city, would be organized. However, her support adds to the obstacles facing Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy as he tries to prevent the referendum, which has been banned by the Constitutional Court, from taking place.
Logistical support from the big cities is essential for the success of the vote and the more polling stations that are open on October 1, the more difficult it will be for security forces to shut them down if ordered to. Rajoy has said he will do “whatever is needed” to stop the vote.
As of yesterday, more than 700 Catalan city halls — representing around 41 percent of the population — have defied court orders and vowed to offer their facilities to the vote organizers. Spain’s public prosecutor on Wednesday ordered an investigation into the city halls’ decisions as part of a legal and judicial offensive against the vote.

Barcelona, with its 1.6 million citizens, represents around 20 percent of the Catalan population.
Colau had been under attack from pro-independence forces after she hesitated to give her support for the ballot. On Thursday, Catalan President Carles Puigdemont welcomed her announcement, saying it was “good news.”
Even if, as expected, Catalan government officials offer to take on the legal risks of holding the ballot in Barcelona, rather than Colau and her allies, both sides stand to gain from working together.
Colau, a leftist, can burnish her revolutionary credentials and avoid being aligned with unionist forces, while pro-independence parties may be able to attract more voters to the ballot box.
As well as being mayor of Barcelona, Colau is the unofficial head of the leftist alliance Catalunya en Comú (Catalonia in Common), a fledgling political party that could play an important role in the outcome of the vote, if it takes place.
The party’s predecessor won 9 percent of the votes in regional elections in 2015, when pro-independence forces won an absolute majority of seats, and went on to win 24.5 percent of the votes in Catalonia in the 2016 general election.
Catalunya en Comú doesn’t have an official position on independence. It considers the October 1 vote to be a protest “mobilization” and not a binding referendum on secession. However, it backs a future binding referendum agreed with the central government in Madrid to decide the fate of Catalonia.
The leftist group, the regional ally of the far-left Podemos, has consulted rank-and-file members on whether to tell supporters to vote on October 1. It will announce the result of that consultation this week. Only around a quarter of its supporters — according to surveys conducted with those who backed its predecessor party — back an independent Catalonia.
Although pro-independence forces have vowed the referendum will be binding regardless of turnout, low participation would weaken their leverage. Colau’s supporters could boost turnout in the referendum, increasing Puigdemont’s leverage in the aftermath.


As Russia begins its Zapad war games, the West should be worried about Moscow “downright lying about the size and the type” of military exercises it holds, according to Tomáš Valášek, the former Slovak ambassador to NATO, who now heads the Carnegie Europe think tank.
In an interview with POLITICO’s EU Confidential podcast, Valášek said fears that Moscow would use the exercise as a springboard to attack or invade a neighbor were overblown. But he said Russia was not complying with the spirit of the Vienna Document — an international agreement under which nations are meant to provide details of major military exercises and allow other countries to monitor them.
“The fact that the Russians don’t really apply the document should worry us,” Valášek said. “In the future, there may well be a situation where we want proper monitoring when the tensions between east and west are much higher than they are today. And [when] we don’t have that recourse then it makes everybody jumpy, right?”
“It makes the Western countries feel that they need to respond with an exercise of their own and that’s how accidents happen,” he said.

NATO has accused Moscow of under-reporting the number of soldiers involved in the exercise, taking place in Russia and Belarus, to keep it under the threshold of 13,000 that would require the invitation of international monitors, according to the Vienna Document. NATO has said it will send two experts to “international visitors’ days” during the exercise, at the invitation of Belarus, but does not regard this as real monitoring.
In remarks to POLITICO in July, Russia’s ambassador to NATO, Alexander Grushko, accused the West of fear-mongering over the exercise and said NATO had escalated tensions by increasing its presence in Eastern Europe. He said Russia routinely invited journalists and other monitors to observe both drills and active military operations, such as those in Syria.
Looking at the EU’s efforts to boost defense cooperation between its members, Valášek said Brussels had upped its game.
“There’s more and more substance in defense policy,” he said. “And I speak as someone who has observed it, watched it and has written about it for now nigh on two decades.”
Valášek said the key shift is that the EU — through the European Defense Fund — is now offering substantial financial incentives for countries that work together to buy military hardware.
Valášek praised the efforts of European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker to offer “an olive branch and seek to cool off the divides” between Eastern and Western Europe.
In Juncker’s State of the European Union speech, he committed to addressing bread-and-butter issues such as international brands using cheaper ingredients for products in Eastern Europe. Juncker said “Slovaks deserve as much fish in their fish sticks as anyone else, and Czechs deserve as much cocoa in their chocolate.”
The food issue is a symbol of several serious divides that threaten to overwhelm East-West relations in Europe.
Valášek said that perhaps for the first time in the EU’s 60 years, “on all the big issues of the day, whether it’s the answer to the migration crisis, whether it’s rule of law, whether it’s taxation … we’re basically looking at the same dividing line” of old member countries versus new members.
Valášek said that if East-West tensions are not addressed in the coming year, deeper problems lie ahead.
“We’re looking at the mother of all debates,” he said, referring to Commissioner Günther Oettinger’s plans for the EU’s next long-term budget. The budget is expected to run for either five or seven years from 2021.
The U.K.’s departure from the EU will leave a gap of up to €10 billion per year in the EU’s finances.
Subscribe to POLITICO‘s EU Confidential podcast on iTunes or find it on Soundcloud.


The European Commission would “respect” a Yes vote in a referendum on Catalan independence, Jean-Claude Juncker said Thursday, but Catalonia shouldn’t expect to become an EU member straight after such a vote.
The European Commission president was asked for his thoughts on the referendum that Catalonia’s leaders have pledged to hold on October 1 — and that Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has vowed to stop at all costs — in an interview with young YouTubers.
“The Commission does not involve itself in internal, domestic debates,” Juncker said, adding that the discussion was hypothetical as the referendum is not recognized by Spain. But he said “if there would be a Yes vote in favor of Catalan independence, then we will respect that opinion.”
However, even if that was to happen, “Catalonia will not become an EU member state on the day after such a vote. It will have to follow the same accession procedures as those member states who joined in 2004.”
Juncker said the same would apply to an independent Scotland and even, he joked, to an independent Northern Luxembourg.

The hour-long interview featured questions from three YouTubers. One of them, Abdel en Vrai from Belgium, told Juncker that many of his Muslim friends were discriminated against for wearing a headscarf at work and had difficulties finding jobs.
Juncker said this was against EU labor rules, adding, “I would never refuse a woman wearing a veil working in the Commission.”
“Where we have an impasse is the burka,” Juncker said. “But as for wearing the veil, I don’t see a reason why we should ban this religious sign.”
The European Commission chief was speaking a day after he delivered his State of the Union speech in Strasbourg. While he touched on a range of subjects in the address, and sprung a surprise by calling for the jobs of Commission president and Council president to be merged, he barely touched on Brexit.
Asked why he didn’t spend more time discussing the U.K.’s exit from the EU, Juncker said “Brexit isn’t the future. Brexit has already become the past and I wanted to talk about the future.”
The former prime minister of Luxembourg said he didn’t want the British to suffer as a result of Brexit because “I just like them too much.”


In Brussels, there was some head-scratching this morning. Why Florence?
Of all the great cities in Europe, why did Theresa May choose a once great city-state to deliver her big Brexit address?
There were other options. Lisbon, the capital of Britain’s oldest ally? Perhaps that’s too symbolic of European integration having lent its name to that treaty. Paris? Impossible. Berlin? No.
But isn’t Florence a symbol of terminal decline since its Renaissance heyday — a once-great banking powerhouse that has lost its relevance? Maybe. Or if your instincts run the other way, it could just as easily be a symbol of a place that was much stronger as a city-state than as part of Italy.
A senior Italian official in Florence briefed on London’s plans said: “We were told that May chose Florence because it is the historical heart of Europe and which existed without the need for the European Union. It used to be a European capital centuries before the EU was created, it’s a sort of Europe without the EU.”
“May wants to give the message that Britain will remain in Europe even as it leaves the bloc,” he said.
The choice of a continental location means this is a speech directed primarily at the EU27 and Brussels — rather than a domestic audience. And it is what the prime minister has to say — not where she is saying it — which is really important.
For the EU27 it’s all about the money. Will May finally make an offer on the Brexit bill, they wonder in Brussels.
Could she break the deadlock with a “big, generous offer” to pay, in full, Britain’s commitments to the seven-year EU budget? Such an offer could only be made with strings attached, but it could nevertheless clear a significant blockage from the road to Brexit.
May could demand the status quo on trade until the end of the budget period in late 2020 in return for the status quo on money.
Without a clear offer, the speech will only annoy the EU27 more than they already are (no mean feat).
Such an offer would chime with the noises coming from the U.K. Chancellor Philip Hammond, who said Wednesday that Britain wanted a “status quo” transition period after Brexit with continued access to the single market and customs union.
Is May strong enough at home to make such an offer? The bar being set in Brussels is certainly high — perhaps too high. For them, it sounds like there must be an offer on money, but there must also be a vision for Britain’s place in Europe after Brexit.
This insight is from POLITICO‘s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.


Spain’s national postal service Correos warned its office directors in Catalonia not to carry out any activities related to receiving or delivering material related to the Catalan independence referendum scheduled for October 1, El País reported Thursday.
In a “reminder” email sent out to staff and seen by broadcaster RAC1, Correos said no employee should handle election material — including instructions to organizers and poll station plans — given their “obligation to comply with the law.”
“We remind workers that you cannot collaborate administratively” with the referendum, the email read.
The Spanish government maintains that the referendum is unconstitutional and illegal, and has promised to use all legal means at its disposal to prevent the referendum from taking place. On Wednesday, Spain’s public prosecutor ordered an investigation into hundreds of Catalan mayors who vowed to support the referendum.
According to El País, the Catalan regional government has already planned alternatives to the national post for distributing election material.


British Prime Minister Theresa May will deliver a speech “on Brexit negotiations so far” in Florence on September 22, a Downing Street spokesman told journalists at a briefing late Wednesday.
According to the spokesman, May wants to “provide updates on how the negotiations were going and be engaged in an ongoing conversation with Europe.”
Without a resolution on key divorce issues such as the U.K.’s financial obligations to the EU and citizens’ rights, it is unlikely that the European Council will deem that “sufficient progress” has been made to move on to other topics, including trade — a priority for the British government — when the EU27 meet for a summit on October 22.
Last week, European Parliament President Antonio Tajani said: “I would think it wise for the European Council to postpone this point [the ‘sufficient progress’ decision] to its December meeting.”
Asked why the prime minister chose Florence for the speech, the spokesman said May “wanted to give a speech on the U.K.’s future relationship with Europe in its historical heart.”


Ben Scott is on the hunt for fake news.
As an outside technology adviser to Hillary Clinton’s failed 2016 U.S. presidential campaign, Scott has first-hand knowledge of how digital falsehoods can infiltrate — and, he would add, sway — an election.
Scott, who also served as a Clinton aide on technology when she was U.S. secretary of state, is part of a growing brigade of policymakers, national intelligence agencies and fact-checking agencies working to ensure the same thing does not happen in Germany as voters head to the ballot boxes.
“It’s my own personal regret that we didn’t understand the significance of this during the U.S. election,” said the soft-spoken American who has teamed up with Stiftung Neue Verantwortung, a digital think tank in Berlin, to combat potential online misinformation in the run up to the September 24 vote.
In the months building up to Germany’s election, 39-year-old Scott — who splits his time between Berlin and Toronto — and a small team of researchers have been scouring the country’s news outlets and social media ecosystem in search of fake news.
Their goal: to trace how digital falsehoods worm their way through social media sites like Facebook and Twitter, penetrate traditional media and influence the public debate — and ultimately the election.
By flagging how such falsities are spread virally, the Berlin-based team hopes to develop countermeasures, potentially suppressing false information and ensuring the integrity of elections, both in Germany and in future votes worldwide.
That has involved creating an online database since early summer of potential digital falsehoods and tracking how such misinformation has seeped into the current election campaign, in which Angela Merkel still maintains a healthy lead against her main challenger, Martin Schulz.
In late May, for instance, Scott’s group tracked how extremist groups successfully hijacked comments made by Margot Käßmann, the former bishop of Hanover.
Over a two-week period, more than 30,000 social media posts and articles falsely claimed that Käßmann had called many native-born Germans neo-Nazis, according to Stiftung Neue Verantwortung’s analysis of the online activity.
Traditional media quickly debunked the allegations. But the fake news was much more widely shared and commented on across social media than the debunking. That finding, said Scott, highlights how Germans — like their American counterparts — are susceptible to fake news, even if many of the country’s policymakers already claim victory over the phenomenon.
“Even small blogs peddling misinformation can punch above their weight online,” said Scott. “It’s like a snowball rolling down a hill. It’s hard to stop it when it starts.”
Scott and his team are part of wider  global efforts to fight fake news, inspired in large part by the build-up to the 2016 U.S. election, when false reports — some allegedly created and shared online by Russian-backed groups — went viral, making it difficult for voters to tell myth from reality.
Underhanded efforts to sway campaigns around the globe existed well before 2016. But the ability of fake news, cyberattacks and other digital trickery to raise doubts in voters’ minds, experts say, is a relatively new problem that has caught lawmakers off-guard.
The phenomenon has now become part of almost every country’s election cycle.
During elections across Europe this year — in the Netherlands, France, Britain, Sweden and soon Germany, Austria and the Czech Republic — an unwieldy troop of government agencies, media groups and political researchers have tried to perfect the imprecise art of debunking digital falsehoods.
That includes educating people about fake allegations targeted at candidates and protecting campaigns from increasingly sophisticated online cyberattacks. It also means working with tech companies like Google and Facebook to combat misinformation and hate speech often aimed at skewing elections toward extremist politicians or viewpoints.
European governments — many stirred into action after last year’s U.S. presidential election — have also doubled down on their efforts.
Countries like Britain and France have provided national security agencies with additional resources to bolster digital security connected to electoral campaigns and voting systems.
The Czech Republic, Finland and the European Commission, among others, have either created or expanded in-house fact-checking teams, mostly directed at countering Russian-sponsored propaganda spread on social media.
And even NATO — better-known for preparing for traditional warfare — has joined the fight, holding hackathons and training sessions in recent months with researchers, policymakers and tech companies to find new ways of combatting the growing online threat.
“There’s an increased amount of misinformation out there,” said Janis Sarts, director of the NATO Strategic Communications Center of Excellence, a think tank in Riga, Latvia. “State-backed actors are trying to amplify their views and increase the mainstream nature of fake news.”
As the main vehicle used to spread such digital misinformation, tech companies like Google, Facebook and Twitter also have come under increased pressure from lawmakers worldwide to do more.
Industry executives were initially caught off guard by the backlash about their role in how such falsities were spread online, including Facebook’s recent revelation that Russian-backed groups had bought $150,000 worth of ads on the social network during the 2016 U.S. campaign.
As the size of the threat became more understood, the companies have started removing hundreds of thousands of illegal accounts from their networks across Europe and the United States.
Facebook and Google also have held a series of digital security training sessions with national lawmakers, providing tips on how to protect against cyberattacks. They similarly have financed fact-checking initiatives from the U.S. to Germany, doling out cash to bolster efforts at debunking myths in real time.
“There’s no easy answer for this complicated issue,” said David Dieudonné, head of Google’s news lab in France, which worked with local media outlets to debunk a relatively small amount of digital misinformation during the recent French election.
Some question if this international push to combat online misinformation can ever truly corral an online threat — often financed by deep-pocketed and hostile governments — that is both widespread and continually changing.
“After the U.S. election, we thought there would be a one-size-fits-all approach to our work,” said Claire Wardle, head of strategy and research at First Draft News, a fact-checking group that first partnered with tech companies and media organizations during the U.S. election to debunk fake news and that has since expanded its work across Europe.
“The reality is much more complicated,” she said. “Every country is different. Every election has brought a new challenge.”
Fake news in last year’s U.S. election was mostly disseminated through online articles and social media posts. The digital falsehoods in Europe, by contrast, have increasingly been transmitted via easily-shareable doctored images, either about politicians like Emmanuel Macron or hot-button issues like the refugee crisis.
That has made it difficult, if not impossible, to use fact-checking methods and technological solutions designed to combat text-based falsehoods. It also has forced media organizations, political campaigns and government agencies to repeatedly reinvent the wheel as tactics used in one election got out of date by the next vote.
“The 2016 campaign was a great proof of concept for how to run a misinformation campaign,” said Robby Mook, campaign manager for Clinton’s failed presidential bid. “They won’t use the same playbook again.”
Fake news has yet to play a major role in Germany’s election, according to Scott’s research at Stiftung Neue Verantwortung.
With less than a week to go before the vote, he is cautiously optimistic that Europe’s largest economy may have sidestepped the worst of the online misinformation, learning lessons from the U.S. and elsewhere in the EU on how to combat the threat.
“The scale of the problem in Germany is a magnitude smaller than what we saw in the U.S.,” said Scott, who plans to continue his fake news-busting work ahead of other elections worldwide. “But we’re not out of the woods yet.”
Plenty of uncertainly remains — notably a successful cyberattack against the German Bundestag in 2015 by Russian-backed hackers that has yet to lead to the publication of sensitive information. And, as Scott learned in last year’s U.S. election, nothing is ever certain until the last vote is counted.
Still, said Scott, Germany has much to teach countries like the U.S.
After World War II, the victorious Allies — foremost among them the U.S. — helped install stable democratic institutions in the country, including a well-functioning (and, often, publicly-funded) media industry. But while Germany has maintained such institutions, elsewhere, including in the U.S., the media landscape has drastically changed over the last 70 years.
When Scott first arrived in Berlin, for instance, he said he was struck how the country had maintained much of its public-interest media outlets in contrast to the demise of many such organizations in the U.S. Many local publishers remain on strong financial ground, and well-read locals are already aware of the fake news threat.
“In the U.S., we have not invested in public media, and have watched with apathy when newspapers closed,” said Scott. “In its wake, the rise of infotainment has fractured the media world and allowed misinformation to thrive.”
Social media companies like Twitter also remain bit players in Germany when it comes to how people share and discuss political events. Even Facebook — with its 35 million German users — is still more a place to share vacation photos than to trade barbs with distant relatives about politics like in the U.S.
“The chickens came home to roost,” said Scott, bemoaning the rise of partisan news outlets and one-sided echo chambers created on social media in the U.S. “It’s not an accident the fake news phenomenon happened when it did.”


Former Beatles drummer Ringo Starr would have voted to leave the European Union, but “don’t tell Bob Geldof,” he told BBC’s Newsnight program Wednesday.
Starr didn’t cast a ballot during the referendum because he was out of the country.
“I would have voted to get out — but don’t tell Bob Geldof,” he said.
Starr currently lives in the U.S. but thinks Brexit is a “great move” because controlling “your own country is a good move.”
Starr added: “The people voted and they have to get on with it. Suddenly, it’s like ‘Oh well, we don’t like that vote.’ What do you mean you don’t like that vote? You had the vote, this is what won, let’s get on with it.”
Paul McCartney, the only other living Beatles member, also didn’t vote in the EU referendum, but said he would have probably backed Remain.
“I think I would have come down on the Remain side because people like the governor of the Bank of England, a lot of financial experts, were saying that,” McCartney told the Washington Post in July.


Much of the European press focused on European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker’s State of the European Union speech, but reactions varied across countries and the political spectrum. From British tabloid Daily Express’s “Thank God we’re leaving EU,” to German paper Die Welt’s pithy summary of the speech: “More members, euro for all,” the speech was covered — and picked apart — across the Continent.
Most German papers focused on Juncker’s call for all EU members to adopt the euro. Süddeutsche Zeitung noted the proposal was contrary to the stance taken by the French and German governments, who don’t want a rerun of the Greek debt crisis in countries that join the euro with dubious finances. Frankfurter Allgemeine labeled Juncker’s proposals thus: “More euro, more Brussels, more money.” In a scathing opinion piece on its front page, right-leaning Die Welt called Juncker’s plans “absurd,” asking on which “star the EU spaceship and its captain Juncker have spent the past years.”



French-speaking paper Le Soir led with a Juncker quote — “The people want Europe to decide faster” — given exclusively to the paper. “Juncker affirms to Le Soir he wants a faster, more effective Europe, but he comes out against a multispeed Europe,” the paper noted. Dutch-speaking De Standaard carried a picture of Juncker confronting former UKIP leader Nigel Farage with the caption: “No more EU money for anti-Europe extremists.”


Between formally winning the right to host the 2024 Olympics and President Emmanuel Macron’s proposed reforms, the French press reported on Juncker’s proposal to protect key European interests from foreign investment, a Macron priority. “Europe wants to better protect its enterprises,” Le Monde wrote. French financial newspaper Les Echos led with the same.


The Telegraph led with: “A United States of Europe: Juncker lays out his vision for future of the EU — led by a European president — and warns U.K. will regret Brexit.” The Financial Times: “Juncker seals EU integration bid with a kiss,” alongside a photo of Juncker kissing Commission First Vice President Frans Timmermans.



The Spanish media focused on the legal battle pitting the secessionist regional Catalan government against the central government in Madrid. On Wednesday, prosecutors opened a case against hundreds of Catalan mayors suspected of supporting an independence referendum, which the national government deems illegal. “The mayors of the referendum will answer to the courts,” El País wrote. Pro-independence paper El Punt Avui wrote, in large typeface, “Siege against the mayors.”




LONDON — Tory grandee Michael Heseltine — who claims a vote for Brexit is not sacrosanct — warned Wednesday it is the House of Lords’ responsibility to amend legislation in “Britain’s self-interest in Europe.”
The former deputy prime minister, who now sits in the House of Lords as Lord Heseltine, was sacked as a government adviser after backing a demand for a parliamentary vote on the final deal to be written into Brexit legislation.
He warned in an interview that “a majority” of peers were sympathetic to “British self-interest in Europe,” and he expected that to manifest itself in the voting lobbies in the upper chamber.
Theresa May’s EU (Withdrawal) Bill overcame its first major hurdle when a majority of 36 MPs voted in favor of it after two days of debate concluded Monday. The bill will be examined clause by clause before returning to the House of Commons in October. If MPs vote the bill through it will then be sent to the unelected House of Lords for scrutiny, though the Commons must review any changes proposed in the Lords.
With no Conservative majority in the united upper chamber, May will face another big battle in getting Brexit legislation through without major changes.
While Heseltine said he could not yet say what changes he would support, he told POLITICO: “I will vote in the House of Lords where it appears that we can pass amendments that suit Britain’s self interest in Europe.
“[The Lords] can influence the climate by what they say, and they can give the House of Commons the chance to think further about particular matters. “
“There is no convention which says we cannot amend legislation and send it back to the Commons. That is our responsibility. The issue is how many times we send proposals back for reconsideration,” he said.
Heseltine warned Conservatives faced a “serious prospect” that Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn would win the next election, and that Brexit would be the central issue.
“[Corbyn’s] party is moving [away from Brexit] and the trade unions are going to try and make it move further.”
He said the Conservative Party, like the Labour Party, was “totally divided.”
“There is no unity, there is no prospect of unity at the moment. The unfolding events are that the Labour Party is moving to an anti-Brexit position as it feels public opinion will do. It wants to leave the Conservatives holding the baby,” he said.
Heseltine said it would take a lot of courage for Conservatives who did not support Brexit to fight their own party.
“It is a tribe. People are very reluctant to go against the prevailing winds within a political party. It is a difficult thing to do.
“They have to face criticism from some of their members, they have to face the risk being seriously attacked by parts of the national press, and they have to risk the thought that they may not get preferment within the government that they support, so there is a huge pressure to keep the tribe intact. It requires a lot of courage to fight your own party, but of course there are people in history who have done so and thank goodness for it.”


WASHINGTON — Nearly eight months after entering the White House and two weeks after exiting it, Sean Spicer still won’t say President Donald Trump’s inaugural crowd wasn’t the “largest” ever.
In his first public interview since departing the West Wing, the former White House press secretary continues to stand strongly by some of his former boss’ demonstrably false claims, despite quips and jabs from late-night host and comedian Jimmy Kimmel.
Recalling his combative first White House outing at the podium, where he boldly claimed Trump’s inauguration drew the “largest audience” ever for the event, Spicer said that it was his job to follow the president’s directives and “make sure that the record got set straight.”
“I think there was a faction of people out there that didn’t want to give him the credit that he rightly deserved,” Spicer said on “Jimmy Kimmel Live” on Wednesday, adding that some in the media “constantly sought to undermine the validity of his election.”
The former Trump spokesman added that it wasn’t necessarily his job to agree with Trump, but rather to always represent him in public.
“I think there was a lot of us that wanted to be focused on his agenda, what he spoke about in his inaugural speech, but look, he’s president, he made a decision,” he added.
“I don’t think it was probably the best start,” he conceded.
Spicer also addressed President Trump’s frequent social media posting habits, saying there were times were he may “have wanted to go to bed,” only to notice a new Trump tweet and think: “This is going to be a longer night.”
Despite the added turmoil often brought on by Trump’s tweeting, Spicer said the president almost never asked him to look over his post.
“I don’t believe — maybe one or twice,” he said.
Spicer, who rose to fame in part due to “Saturday Night Live” comedian Melissa McCarthy’s impression of him, which repeatedly went viral online, added that the president was not particularly fond of his spokesperson being the butt of the joke.
“I don’t think he found it as humorous as others.”
Spicer resigned from his perch atop the White House press podium in late July amid a staffing shake-up that ushered in the era of Communications Director Anthony Scaramucci — an “era” that lasted just over a week.
At the time, Trump touted Spicer’s “great television ratings” in announcing the move, despite the frequent absence of on-camera press briefings during his short-lived yet memorable tenure as press secretary. The president later lamented on Twitter that Spicer took “tremendous abuse from the Fake News Media.”
Though Spicer resigned as press secretary in July, he remained working in the West Wing in an unnamed role until August 31.
Since then, he has kept a limited public profile while fielding future employment opportunities.
Spicer and Kimmel first announced the appearance in a series of posts on Twitter.
Last Friday, the late-night posted a picture of himself wearing a Navy hat posing with Spicer, who is a member of the Navy Reserve. “Dear @SeanSpicer – if I promise to look AT the camera this time, will you come to my show next week?” Kimmel wrote.
Spicer replied: “It’s a deal, does next Wednesday work?”
Two days prior, Spicer announced he had joined the profitable paid speakers’ circuit with Worldwide Speakers Group.
The company in its announcement said its clients “around the world will benefit from the same candor, wit and insight that Spicer brought to the White House briefing room.”


U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson hopes to save as much as $10 billion over five years under his plan to restructure the State Department by better aligning, if not outright merging, it with USAID.
In an email sent to State Department employees Wednesday, Tillerson offered just a glimpse into his plan to reshape the department, a blueprint that he said he would submit to the White House Office of Management and Budget this week.
The redesign effort also includes changes to the U.S. Agency for International Development. It is being watched closely by lawmakers and diplomats on edge over President Donald Trump’s proposed drastic cuts to the foreign affairs budget.
In the email, a copy of which was shared with POLITICO, Tillerson writes that he wants to update the information technology system, offer more flexible programs for employees with families, and further empower the State Department’s top leaders.
His main point, however, focused on ways to better coordinate what the State Department does with what USAID does. Tillerson never explicitly says he wants to merge the two entities, which would probably require congressional approval, but leaves the impression that he wants to eliminate redundancies.
“Our redesign plan seeks to align State and USAID foreign assistance and policy strategies, capabilities, and resources to execute foreign policy priorities more effectively,” Tillerson writes. “It includes several ambitious proposals with investments that will generate a minimum deliverable of 10 percent [$5B] in efficiencies relative to current [FY2017] spending over the next five years, with an aspirational general interest target of up to 20 percent [$10B].”
Tillerson acknowledges that some of his restructuring plans will require congressional approval, but notes that some efforts are already underway. For instance, he is taking steps to reduce the number of special envoys at the department.
The changes will be unveiled “on a rolling basis,” Tillerson said. “Once a solution is ready to go, we’re going to put it to work as soon as we can.”
Some State Department employees were left scratching their heads by the email and eager for more details. “It’s lots of business school buzzwords with no tangible details,” one employee said of Tillerson’s message.
The future of the State Department is of concern to not only its employees but also to lawmakers. Both Republicans and Democrats have put up fierce resistance to Trump’s proposal to cut the department’s and USAID’s annual budget by roughly a third. Tillerson has left numerous top leadership positions at State empty as he has pulled together his restructuring plan, further alarming lawmakers.
A key Senate panel last week passed legislation that kept the level of foreign affairs funding roughly on par with that of recent years, a rebuke to both Trump and Tillerson.


The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation revealed Wednesday it used grand jury subpoenas more broadly than previously known in the course of the investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s private email account and server.
A top FBI official disclosed in a court filing that grand jury subpoenas were used to try to obtain records not only from Clinton’s account but also from accounts belonging to people she was in contact with.
“In instances where the FBI discovered evidence of the potential unauthorized transmission of classified information from the [Clinton] personal email servers to private third party email accounts of individuals with whom Secretary Clinton corresponded and could establish sufficient probable cause, the FBI sought additional legal process, to include grand jury subpoenas, in order to obtain additional e-mails relevant to the FBI’s investigation,” Bill Priestap, the bureau’s assistant director for counterintelligence, wrote in a declaration filed in federal court in Washington.
Priestap did not elaborate on which of Clinton’s associates had their email accounts targeted for grand jury subpoenas or whether they were notified of the requests.
The disclosure comes as Republicans, including President Donald Trump. have publicly renewed doubts about the thoroughness and propriety of the inquiry led by FBI Director James Comey, whom Trump fired in May.
“Wow, looks like James Comey exonerated Hillary Clinton long before the investigation was over … and so much more. A rigged system,” Trump wrote on Twitter earlier this month.
The presidential tweet followed a disclosure by Republican Senators Chuck Grassley of Iowa and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina that testimony gathered in another inquiry found that two to three months before the FBI probe concluded, Comey had begun drafting a statement that Clinton would not be charged.
After Comey announced the end of the investigation without charges in July 2016, Republican lawmakers repeatedly complained that he failed to use any mandatory legal process in the inquiry. Some said he should have used grand jury subpoenas to force Clinton’s lawyers to testify or to turn over laptops they used to handle and sort her messages.
Comey declined to address the allegations at the time, noting that grand jury actions are required to be secret by law.
However, subsequent Freedom of Information Act releases hinted at the use of grand jury subpoenas in the investigation. And in April, Priestap confirmed their use, but in a public court filing referred only to the subpoenas’ being used in an attempt to track down messages that service providers might have stored from Clinton’s account that she accessed via her BlackBerry in January through March 2009.
That confirmation and the new filing Wednesday came in connection with lawsuits filed by conservative watchdog groups Judicial Watch and the Cause of Action Institute, arguing that the State Department had not done enough to recover Clinton’s messages.
Back in April, Priestap also submitted a filing under seal with more details about the FBI investigation. Late last month, U.S. District Court Judge James Boasberg ruled virtually all that information should be made public if the government intended to rely on it. That ruling led to the new filing that provided more detail.
An FBI spokeswoman did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the development.


WASHINGTON — The days of unqualified praise from Washington are over for the country’s biggest tech companies, whose size and power are increasingly drawing attacks from both the left and the right.
Democrats are condemning Facebook for allowing “fake news” and Russia-linked ads during the election, while conservatives accuse Google of silencing right-leaning viewpoints. President Donald Trump routinely accuses Amazon of dodging taxes, and right-leaning news organizations like Fox News and Breitbart have begun mocking Silicon Valley leaders as power-hungry and out of touch.
It’s a sharp change of fortune for the tech sector, which long drew bipartisan praise as an engine of economic growth and innovation — and saw politicians deferring to the industry on issues like digital encryption and how the internet should operate. Now, with Democrats talking tough about applying antitrust scrutiny to “Big Tech” and Republicans condemning internet firms for their snap judgments about who gets to say what online, tech is encountering unaccustomed hostility from the political class — and tighter regulation no longer seems a far-fetched scenario.
“The free ride Silicon Valley has benefited from is finally coming to an end, and I see that on both sides of the political spectrum,” said John Simpson, privacy project director at Washington-based Consumer Watchdog.
Simpson’s group has long criticized the country’s biggest tech companies, saying they abuse consumers on everything from privacy to pricing. But across Washington, liberals and conservatives are beginning to find common ground in the view that the industry’s power over American life has grown too vast and unchecked — and the new dynamic is upending traditional ideological alignments.
Tech’s new critics include Fox News host Tucker Carlson, who has begun sounding the alarm that Google has grown into “the most powerful company in the history of the world.”
Carlson recently aired an interview with Matt Stoller, a member of an antitrust team that lost its jobs at the left-leaning think tank New America after praising a $2.7 billion fine that the European Commission levied against Google this summer for stifling competition. The New York Times reported that Google Executive Chairman Eric Schmidt, a New America funder, had complained about the statement posted by Stoller’s team — a turn of events that Carlson described as a sign of Google’s “terrifying” power.
Stoller, a former aide to Senator Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), later praised Carlson as “one of the few on TV willing to talk about it.”
“Everything is confusing!” Stoller tweeted.
Washington’s souring relationship with tech marks a sharp break from the Obama years, when politicians of all stripes regularly basked in the glory of the nation’s tech giants. Obama appeared in town halls with CEOs like Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg and personally recruited what he called “top talent from Google, from Facebook, from all the top tech companies” to serve in his White House tech squad, the U.S. Digital Service. Obama and Democrats weren’t alone in this; Senator Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) celebrated Google in his 2015 election-season memoir as “the dream employer of the newly graduated.”
As the internet industry flourished over the past two decades, each political party saw a reflection of its own image. Democrats reveled in Silicon Valley’s espousal of liberal values, while Republicans saw evidence that the free market in America was alive and well.
But in a sign of how much the temperature has changed in the nation’s capital, Google spent last week on the defensive after New York Times columnist Nicholas Kristof accused the search giant of enabling criminal behavior by trying to kill bipartisan legislation aimed at combating online sex trafficking. Kristof’s column won an immediate endorsement from Senator John McCain (R-Ariz.), who called it a “must-read” on Twitter.
Facebook also found itself in the crosshairs last week over its admission that it had sold $150,000 worth of 2016 election ads to Russian-linked accounts. The disclosure, which Facebook shared with federal investigators, stirred up long-standing Democratic complaints that the company had turned a blind eye to so-called fake news that took aim, directly and indirectly, at Hillary Clinton.
At times, the new scrutiny of tech is creating strange bedfellows.
Steve Bannon, while serving as Trump’s chief strategist, reportedly floated the idea of treating Facebook and Google as public utilities, similar to the heavily regulated telephone industry — a departure from the traditional conservative focus on deregulation. Meanwhile, Breitbart News, the online publication Bannon now heads, often goes after tech companies for heavy-handedness and elitism. “Tech” is listed as a section of that site just after “Big Government,” “Big Journalism” and “Big Hollywood.” A recent story on Breitbart mocked a Google employee for importing Maine lobsters to the Burning Man festival in the Nevada desert.
Top Democrats, too, are talking about reining in tech’s reach. The party’s congressional leadership in July put out a new economic agenda stating that antitrust regulators should factor in companies’ handling of users’ personal data — the lifeblood of internet firms — when deciding which mergers to approve. That document echoed aspects of a speech that Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) delivered last year arguing that companies like Google, Facebook and Amazon are trying to “snuff out competition.“
The danger for the industry is that the U.S. will start to look a lot more like Europe, where regulators are much tougher on American tech firms, subjecting them to investigations and fines over everything from their tax avoidance strategies to their handling of so-called hate speech.
”The services this industry provides have become a part of our social and economic fabric, and by and large we think we’re providing an important, valuable, positive contribution,” said Ed Black, president of the Washington-based Computer & Communications Industry Association, which represents many of the big tech companies.
He acknowledged “that disruption, while it can be empowering, can also be unsettling and destabilizing,” but cautioned “simplistic analysis of the problems and simplistic solutions are too easily being put forward.”
Amazon’s growing footprint has also brought it new political scrutiny. After the Federal Trade Commission signed off on the company’s $13.7 billion acquisition of Whole Foods, Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), ranking member of the Senate’s antitrust subcommittee, questioned the thoroughness of the agency’s review and said she would probe the agency’s “quick decision” approving the deal.
And the online retailer is a frequent target of Trump, who regularly attacks the company as a tax avoider. “Amazon is doing great damage to tax paying retailers,” Trump tweeted last month. “Towns, cities and states throughout the U.S. are being hurt — many jobs being lost!” The criticism appears to be tied up with Trump’s disdain for what he calls “The Amazon Washington Post.” (He frequently refers to the newspaper as owned by the online retailer, but Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos owns it as a private investment.)
While the large internet firms have long described themselves as mere publishing platforms, they are increasingly making decisions on what content should be taken down or left up on their sites — opening them to blowback from the right and left.
Twitter for years took a hands-off approach to pro-ISIS tweets, a practice that attracted criticism from all sides. (The company now says it more aggressively shuts down terrorism-related accounts.) Facebook, for its part, sparked a conservative firestorm last year over a report that it was demoting right-leaning items from its trending news feed. More recently, the social network has angered people of all ideological stripes by permitting the posting of neo-Nazi content amid the violence at August’s white-nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Despite the controversies, tech is not without resources in Washington. Democrats, for one thing, rely on Silicon Valley as a considerable source of campaign funding, and Republicans are still reluctant to dictate how corporations should behave. The industry has for years been beefing up its lobbying operations in Washington and is spending more than ever before on influencing decision-makers.
But the tech industry’s self-image as a unique force for good has taken a hit, and it’s finding itself treated more and more like any other American industry.
Stoller, the former New America antitrust fellow, said he shares with conservatives like Carlson a drive to understand how companies like Google, Facebook and Amazon are reinventing the American economy. “It touches this deep suspicion all of us have of concentrated power,” Stoller told POLITICO.


Alice Weidel, a senior member of the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD), illegally employed a Syrian refugee to do housework at her home in Switzerland, according to a report by Die Zeit on Wednesday.
Weidel, one of the AfD’s two lead candidates in the September 24 general election, reportedly hired an Islamic studies student to help around her house in Biel in 2015 who then passed on the job to a Syrian woman. The Syrian was paid cash-in-hand at a rate of 25 Swiss francs (roughly €22) per hour, which Zeit said is a typical wage in Switzerland. Weidel’s partner is from Switzerland.
Sources close to Weidel told Zeit that the Syrian asylum seeker did not have a written work contract, nor were there invoices for her work.
Though Weidel is widely considered a liberal voice in the right-wing, populist AfD, she has used the refugee crisis to bolster support for her party, harshly criticizing Chancellor Angela Merkel’s open door migration policy and calling for greater controls.
When asked by Zeit about the report, Weidel’s lawyer said he needed time to respond because of the “very complex legal issues in terms of the legitimacy of remuneration rules.”
Her lawyer also told Zeit that Weidel was “friendly” with a Syrian woman, who had stayed at her house as a guest but not as a worker, according to the Süddeutsche Zeitung.
Weidel later wrote on Twitter that the Zeit report was “fake news” and “false.”
“Alice Weidel has at no point hired an asylum seeker, let an asylum seeker work for her, or paid an asylum seeker remuneration,” said a statement posted to her Facebook and Twitter accounts.
Weidel further accused Zeit of not properly explaining that an annual wage of less than 750 Swiss francs (roughly €650) for doing housework would not need to be declared under Swiss law.

Weidel recently came under fire over a leaked email in which she allegedly described immigrants as “aliens” and “non-people.” She also reportedly called for the preservation of “genetic unity” and warned against the “self-defeated dissolution of our culture,” according to Die Welt. Weidel denied that she wrote the email.
The AfD is expected to win seats in the Bundestag later this month as the party is currently polling at between 8 and 11 percent. This would make it the first far-right party to enter the German parliament since World War II.


PARIS — All through his presidential campaign, Emmanuel Macron touted his goal of a rejuvenated Europe with ideas that sounded clear and simple.
As French president, he would first restore his country’s economic credibility by convincing its European neighbors that he was dead serious about implementing long-overdue domestic reforms. Then, he would try to secure a German agreement to push for a more integrated eurozone, complete with its own budget, finance minister, and even micro-parliament.
Four months into his presidency, Macron’s ideas are still clear. But it turns out that they are far from simple. He still intends to see through the eurozone reforms he advocated as a candidate. But reality has struck.
First, the German election campaign makes it delicate for Macron to push hard ideas that run against Berlin’s reluctance, if not outright opposition. The second — less expected — source of skepticism about Macron’s eurozone designs comes from within the French government itself: There’s a serious debate on the wisdom of pushing for a grand plan, which some say might not even be needed.
The German problem, long expected, is the main reason why France hasn’t yet detailed its vision for the eurozone’s future beyond the president’s vague campaign slogans. “We don’t know which parties will govern in coalition with Merkel in Berlin, and we didn’t want to embarrass her or others with proposals on the monetary union that might have become campaign topics,” said a French government official.
According to the Elysée, Macron will wait until the end of the month to make his detailed proposal public — just a few weeks before the next European Council meeting in mid-October. A preliminary discussion of deeper eurozone integration will take place at the informal meeting of EU finance ministers in Tallinn, Estonia, on Friday and Saturday.
Finance ministry officials and presidential aides speak of “subdued optimism” on Germany’s ultimate position. Chancellor Angela Merkel has publicly indicated that she could agree to the creation of a eurozone finance minister. Still, the German position on Macron’s eurozone plans is at best one of constructive ambiguity. Both sides have been able to fudge the issue so far only because the French president’s own proposals are fuzzy.
The terms of the debate are as old as the eurozone crisis but had more or less disappeared from the EU conversation until Macron came along. Also, the eurozone recovery looks strong, and the euro debt crisis looks like a thing of the past. The European Central Bank, with its negative interest rates and so-called “quantitative easing” program, is doing the heavy lifting for now. But they can’t last forever, and it’s up to governments to reform the eurozone to avoid another shock.
The old German position is that fiscal restraint and structural reforms in the eurozone countries would suffice to avoid a repeat crisis. But most economists, including German ones, note that external shocks to the European economy would hit different member countries in different ways and that some form of pooling of resources and fiscal transfers — that is, the strong helping the weak — would be necessary in times of crisis to avoid another financial panic.
A joint eurozone budget administered by a common “finance minister” could serve that goal, the reasoning goes.
But a “common budget” doesn’t mean anything in itself. “The problem is that no one has agreed on what that budget would entail, meaning that no one knows what that so-called minister would do,” a French Treasury official said.
In Macron’s interview with Le Point in late August, he envisioned that the joint budget would amount to “several percentage points of GDP” of the monetary union, would be able to issue eurozone bonds, and would help finance public investment, as well as help cushion future financial shocks.
Contrast this with Merkel’s guarded endorsement of the idea at her summer press conference in Berlin a day before Macron’s interview was published. The common budget, she said, could be made up of “small contributions, not hundreds of billions of euros” from eurozone members and be devoted to rewarding countries that implement structural reforms. As for the eurozone finance minister, the person would merely help provide greater “coherence” in the economic policies of different countries.
That’s also the vision outlined by European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker in his State of the Union speech on Wednesday — although he wants the joint economy and finance minister for the EU as a whole.
The only idea that Merkel supports wholeheartedly is that of a “European Monetary Fund” proposed by her Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble. A regional equivalent to the International Monetary Fund, the EMF would be tasked to rescue debt-strapped countries in exchange for a turnaround program.
After playing deaf when Schäuble first made the EMF proposal last spring, the French government now agrees that it could serve as a basis for discussion. What’s more, some within the Macron administration even argue that eurozone reforms might not need to go any further.
“They should have jumped on the EMF proposal early on, because it was the first time the Germans implicitly admitted that some monetary creation should be involved in bailout programs. Don’t forget that the IMF, after all, is financed by central bank resources,” said Jean-Pierre Landau, a former deputy governor of the Banque de France, the French central bank.
Landau and others argue that incremental progress through patient cooperation between France and Germany would be much more effective than grand reforms that might trigger political backlash.
Furthermore, government insiders say Economy Minister Bruno Le Maire, a conservative who is skeptical about the so-called “federalist” approach to European integration, is lukewarm to the Macron approach. Le Maire controls the Treasury’s powerful bureaucracy, which is said to have fallen in line.
Skeptics of Macron’s grandiose plans agree that more needs to be done to make the eurozone safer and more stable. But they say it would be enough to complete the major reforms that have already been launched — such as the EU’s banking union, arguably the most important reform of European institutions of the last 10 years.
Transforming the current European Stability Mechanism — the bailout fund designed and created in the heat of the eurozone crisis — into the German-proposed EMF would then complete the reforms.
“There are many things to do to reform, fix or complete existing eurozone institutions,” added Grégory Claeys, a scholar at Bruegel, the Brussels think tank. According to Claeys, the author of a recent paper on the lessons from the euro crisis, these include the banking union and the way fiscal rules are implemented in the EU.
Some, however, worry that the creation of the EMF could serve as a pretext for the Germans to refuse any form of joint fiscal instrument in the future.
“It is impossible to envision a stable eurozone without that,” insists Shahin Vallée, an economist who was an adviser to former European Council President Herman Van Rompuy and to Macron when he was economy minister in François Hollande’s government. By his own estimate, such a common budget should amount to at least 1 percent of the eurozone’s GDP — still way below Macron’s mooted plan.
The skeptics argue that whatever government takes over in Berlin after the election, there’s little chance of a significant shift in the basic German position on the matter. They point out that original plans to complete the banking union with a joint bank deposit guarantee scheme have gone nowhere, because Germany balks at the potential risk of one day having to cover for other countries’ depositors.
Despite the hurdles, the Macron team remains hopeful about new Franco-German cooperation to reinvigorate the eurozone.
Referring to the eurozone’s repeated bailout programs, the creation of the ESM, and the banking union, a presidential aide noted: “Look at the history of the euro crisis in the last 10 years and at all the reforms that Germany was supposed to never ever accept — and eventually did.”


The EU is known for creating presidencies, not eliminating them. But if European leaders saw any laudable efficiency in Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker’s proposal to combine his own job with that of Council President Donald Tusk, they didn’t exactly jump up cheering.
Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, responding generally to Juncker’s State of the European Union speech on Wednesday, called him “romantic” but lacking in pragmatism. “I am more someone who says: vision? Just go see an eye doctor,” Rutte told Dutch media.
Rutte, a potential future Council president in 2019, rejected combining the presidencies: “You have to keep that separated.”
Czech Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka gushed with praise on Twitter for Juncker’s comments about uniting Eastern and Western Europe, and especially his statement about dual-quality food being “unacceptable.” But the idea of combining the Commission and Council presidencies? Sobotka was silent.
Like Rutte, Danish Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen held up a large “stop” sign. The Council is an “important member state institution,” Rasmussen tweeted. “Let’s not mix roles and competences. Need @eucopresident as voice of member states.”
Moments later, he suggested — contrary to what some Commission officials think — that Juncker’s plan would require changes to EU treaties. “Agree with Juncker, time not for treaty changes,” he wrote. “Must focus on essentials. No new grand projects or institutional discussions.”
Given that Juncker’s proposal at a minimum would require the unanimous support of EU leaders, the initial reaction to his call to combine the two top jobs in Brussels suggested it would not fly anytime soon.
Speaking to German public broadcaster ARD after his address, Juncker acknowledged that he was “not expecting [them] to clap … in excitement” about the proposal.
The stand-alone Council presidency is a relatively new post, created in 2009 based on the Treaty of Lisbon, to serve as a convenor of EU heads of state and government. Previously, that role was filled by the leader of the country holding the rotating presidency of the Council of the EU.
Tusk, a former Polish prime minister, and his sole predecessor, former Belgian premier Herman Van Rompuy, have fashioned the job into a neutral advocate for national leaders in Brussels, simultaneously a defender of European integration and national sovereignty and sensibilities.
The possibility that the Council would vote to eliminate that role seemed far-fetched, and several EU officials and diplomats suggested Juncker was playing to his audience in the European Parliament, where federalist sentiment is strong. Some said Juncker was savvy enough to realize it was an old and unrealistic idea, and he put it forward primarily to stir debate.
In his speech, Juncker said: “Europe would be easier to understand if one captain was steering the ship.” It was part of a broader push for increasing the role of electoral politics in filling EU offices, including, potentially, the adoption of a new system of transnational party lists in the parliamentary elections.
Supporters of Juncker’s idea said it would not require any change to the Lisbon Treaty, which they said would allow a “double-hat” scenario, in which the Commission and Council presidents would be one and the same.
Skeptics said the scenario was hard to fathom, beginning with the election process. Currently, the Parliament technically elects the Commission president while the Council appoints its own president.
Some European officials said they were more perplexed by Juncker’s decision to push the idea than they were opposed to it. One senior diplomat called it “a deliberate provocation to stir up debate” on an issue that has long been limited to “theoretical discussions.”
Another EU official said: “This is an old, rather wide-ranging idea that goes back to the constitutional convention and that would require treaty change. It’s part of traditional pleasing of the federalist parts of the European Parliament.”
Jean De Ruyt, a former Belgian EU ambassador who is now a senior policy adviser at the Covington & Burling law firm, said it was a “logical idea” and had long been discussed in EU circles. The Council president and Commission president “already share around 80 percent of their competences,” De Ruyt said.
Such an institutional arrangement, De Ruyt said, was first proposed in the early 2000s and backed by Jean-Luc Dehaene, the former Belgian prime minister and vice president of the European Convention.
Elmar Brok, a senior German MEP and the Parliament’s informal in-house counsel on institutional matters, said Juncker’s proposal “would probably not be No. 1” on the list of priorities. In addition, he said it was unrealistic because the European Parliament would want to scrutinize it to be sure its own authority would not be undermined.
“We’ll need to look into the details,” Brok said. “The Parliament has to make sure that we don’t lose the right to elect the Commission president,” he added, pointing to the hard-to-imagine situation of national leaders allowing MEPs to decide who coordinates their meetings as Council president.
Tusk, whose second and last term ends in 2019, praised Juncker’s speech for focusing on issues the Council identified as priorities at recent summit meetings in Slovakia and Italy.
“I welcome #SOTEU focus on unity and solving real, pressing problems as agreed in Bratislava and Rome: Migration, security & economy,” Tusk tweeted. On the proposal for a combined presidency, however, Tusk said nothing.
David M. Herszenhorn, Jacopo Barigazzi and Judith Mischke contributed reporting.


The U.K.’s snap general election in June cost the British taxpayer more than £140 million, according to figures released by the government Wednesday.
Just over £98 million was spent on fees for returning officers, who oversee the count at a local level, with £42.5 million on delivering election literature. The figures, which cover England, Scotland and Wales but not Northern Ireland, were published by Cabinet Office Minister Chris Skidmore.
A Cabinet Office spokesperson said: “The House of Commons was invited to vote on whether or not to hold an early general election. Democratically-elected MPs voted in favour of holding the election.”
The EU referendum in 2016 was estimated to have cost £142 million, according to the BBC.
Theresa May’s decision to call a snap general election came as a surprise. She hoped to strengthen her hand in parliament but ended up losing her majority and being forced to rely on a deal with Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party.
 


HANOVER, Germany — Germany’s Free Democrats (FDP) will push to set up hubs in Africa to handle applications from people seeking asylum in Europe if the party ends up in government after this month’s election.
“There needs to be, at least, preliminary checks [in Africa] so that only those who have a strong chance of being granted asylum come to Europe in the first place — even if their applications might not be fully completed there,” FDP leader Christian Lindner told POLITICO on the sidelines of a campaign event in Hanover.
“This is about gaining control over the Mediterranean,” he said.
Lindner’s proposal to pre-screen asylum applicants outside Europe goes a step further than the party’s manifesto, which states that “to spare people the extremely dangerous journey, we would like to make it possible to already file an application for asylum abroad.”
His suggestion is a response to two pressing issues arising from the migration crisis of recent years. The first is the perilous, and sometimes fatal, journey many people make across the Mediterranean to try to reach Europe. The second — which has become a hot political topic in Germany and other European countries — is that authorities face major legal and practical hurdles to sending back many of those whose asylum applications are rejected.
The proposal also reflects a toughening of the FDP’s policies on migration and asylum in recent years under Lindner’s leadership.
Lindner said his party fully supported plans by French President Emmanuel Macron to provide people who are already recognized as refugees by the United Nations with hubs in African countries where they can file an application for asylum in Europe.
“It’s about deciding who has the prospect of staying and is therefore granted the chance to enter Europe, and who doesn’t,” he said after the event in Hanover on Tuesday night.
Last month, the leaders of France, Germany, Italy and Spain agreed on a plan to reduce the number of people who make the trip across the Mediterranean from Libya to Italy.
Critics of the idea of creating hubs, sometimes called hotspots, question their legality and argue that they could prompt even more migrants to flock to impoverished transit countries in the hope of being granted permission to enter Europe.
Ahead of Germany’s parliamentary election a week on Sunday, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservative CDU/CSU bloc has a big opinion poll lead with around 37 percent support — 14 percentage points ahead of their nearest rivals, the center-left Social Democrats. Lindner’s FDP is widely expected to enter the parliament again this year, polling at around 8 percent.
Previously a longtime coalition partner of Merkel’s conservatives, the liberals suffered a crushing defeat during the last election in 2013 when they failed to clear the 5 percent hurdle necessary to enter the Bundestag. They have since staged a remarkable comeback, with their charismatic 38-year-old party leader scoring a record result earlier this year in a regional election in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany’s most populous state.
If current polls hold true, the FDP and CDU/CSU would not have enough seats on their own to form a coalition. But a strong performance by those parties on election night could yet lead to another so-called “black-yellow coalition” between Merkel’s center-right bloc and Lindner’s liberals.
This would give Merkel, who has cautiously come out in favor of processing asylum applications outside the EU, more political backing on the issue. Her current coalition partner, the Social Democrats, openly oppose such ideas, saying in their party manifesto that “asylum applications [should] continue to be processed on European soil.”


U.K. Environment Secretary Michael Gove said Wednesday he was so close to fellow Brexiteers David Davis and Liam Fox that they were like “brothers from a different mother.”
Gove was speaking before the House of Commons Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Committee when he was asked about his relationship with the Brexit secretary and international trade secretary when it comes to the U.K.’s exit from the European Union, “so you can get your input to those who are doing the direct negotiations.”
“We’re brothers from a different mother,” Gove replied, reminding MPs on the committee that he, Davis, Fox and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson “took similar positions” during the Brexit referendum. Gove said the ministers and their departments were “constantly in touch with one another.”
Gove and Johnson’s friendship crumbled during the campaign for the Tory leadership after the referendum last year when the former launched an unexpected push for the top job, derailing Johnson’s own bid to become prime minister.


MADRID — Spain’s public prosecutor ordered an investigation Wednesday into 712 Catalan mayors who have vowed to provide logistical support for a referendum on independence called for October 1 in defiance of a ban by the Constitutional Court.
The prosecutor’s move is the latest in Madrid’s ongoing judicial offensive against the referendum. The Constitutional Court has already suspended all legislation approved by the Catalan parliament aiming to lay the legal groundwork for the vote; judges are investigating regional President Carles Puigdemont and other officials on charges that could result in prison sentences; and prosecutors have ordered the police to hunt down ballot boxes and all materials related to the vote.
Now the chief prosecutor, José Manuel Maza, has ordered the Catalan regional police to summon the mayors as soon as possible and question them about “suspected acts of cooperation in the organization of the illegal referendum.”
He has ordered police to detain those who refuse to appear before authorities and to prioritize the main cities in Catalonia in their investigations. The inquiry could lead to formal charges against the mayors.
The prosecutor’s order states that all actions aimed at organizing the referendum could constitute crimes of disobedience, prevarication, and misuse of public funds. The latter crime is punishable with penalties of up to eight years in prison.
After formally calling the vote last week, Puigdemont and his deputy Oriol Junqueras sent a letter to all 948 mayors in Catalonia asking for their support to organize the vote.
So far, 712 mayors — representing municipalities that are home to about 41 percent of the Catalan population — have said they will cooperate with the referendum and put public facilities at the disposal of the vote, in defiance of a specific order from the Constitutional Court and warnings from the Spanish government.
Some of those who haven’t lent their support, like Barcelona’s Mayor Ada Colau, have been the target of public protests organized by pro-independence groups. Puigdemont called on citizens to approach their mayors in the streets and ask them whether they will prevent them from voting, leading to complaints from Socialist mayors that they have been the target of threats.
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has said he will do “whatever is needed” to prevent the vote from taking place.


The scramble to obfuscate the true nature of Donald Trump Jr.’s meeting last summer with a Russian attorney with ties to the Kremlin is “ridiculous” and “an absurd lie,” former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton said Wednesday morning.
Trump Jr. met last summer with a Russian attorney whom he had been led to believe was in possession of negative information about Clinton sourced from the Russian government. Trump Jr. initially said that the subject of the meeting had been the adoption of Russian children by Americans but was later forced to concede that he had taken the meeting because he had been promised damaging information about his father’s general election opponent.
“It’s ridiculous. It’s another absurd lie to cover up what really was going on which I hope we finally uncover and understand,” Clinton told NBC’s “Today” show in her first live TV interview since last November’s election.
Trump Jr. has said that he gleaned no useful information from the meeting, which was also attended by President Donald Trump’s then-campaign chairman Paul Manafort and Jared Kushner, the president’s son in law and a top White House adviser. The White House and those connected with the Trump campaign have insisted that there was no coordination between the president’s team and the Kremlin’s efforts to meddle in last year’s election.
Clinton, whose 2016 memoir “What Happened” was released Tuesday, stopped short in her book of outright accusing the Trump campaign of colluding with Russia, but lays out a series of connections that indicate that possibility. Asked outright on NBC if she believed Trump’s campaign coordinated with the Kremlin, she said “I can’t say that.”
“What I try to do in the book is to put forth all the information that I think should trouble Americans, whether you’re Republicans or Democrats or anything else,” she said. “We know that there was communication. That certainly has come out, and we know that there was a lot of interesting coincidences, if you will, between what people associated with Trump were saying at the time and what later came to pass.”
Even more than Russian interference into the 2016 election, Clinton said the determining factor in last year’s presidential race was the late-October letter from then-FBI Director James Comey to Congress in which he disclosed that the bureau was examining potentially new evidence related to its investigation into Clinton’s use of a personal email server during her tenure as secretary of state. Similar to the argument she lays out in her book, the former Democratic nominee argues that Comey’s late-in-the-game letter “stopped my momentum” and “drove voters from me.”
“Look, absent that, I believe – and I think the evidence shows – I would have won,” the former secretary of state said. “Were there headwinds? Yes. Were there lots of other issues, and this whole interference by Russia is still an issue? Absolutely. But the role that he played, historically, was determinative.”


The EU has an unlikely ally for its new plan to manage fish stocks in the North Sea — the U.K. government.
The European Commission first proposed the North Sea multiannual plan for iconic species such as cod, haddock and sole in 2016. The legislation sets the outer limits within which quotas for fishing would be set, as well as bringing in sustainability measures such as the landing obligation, which requires fishermen to return all of their catch to shore.
MEPs will vote on the plan tomorrow, but despite Brexit, there will be no British spanner in the works.
“Not the whole sea belongs to the U.K. When we take back control, there will still be EU waters in the North Sea. In our view it would be impractical and crazy to have an EU plan and a U.K. plan for a bit of North Sea waters,” said a British official working on the U.K.’s position.
That might sound like an argument for agreeing North Sea fishing quotas as part of the EU. But Environment Secretary Michael Gove has vowed to make post-Brexit fishing in U.K. waters more sustainable than under the EU’s Common Fisheries Policy.
“As we negotiate our exit from the European Union, I am determined to secure the best possible deal, making sure we have a sustainable and profitable industry for today’s fishermen and the next generation,” he told fishermen in Peterhead, Scotland in June.
But Scottish fishermen hoping to be allowed greater catches post Brexit are likely to be disappointed. “Scotland may be less happy about this than the U.K. overall, but this is the U.K. government position,” said the U.K. official. “We pushed very hard during the reforms for multiannual plans for all the various EU waters and even though we are leaving, we are still very much in favor of getting these plans agreed,” said the official, while conceding that the plan “might tie us down post Brexit.”
An EU official from a smaller fishing country confirmed that U.K. diplomats had been promoting the plan in Brussels and suggested this could be because they don’t want it to get snarled up in the wider Brexit talks. “It is more predictable to adopt the North Sea plan under the EU than trying to negotiate it later on as part of a Brexit deal,” the official said, adding that otherwise, it would leave the U.K. in a “weaker position.”
Taking back control of U.K. waters may mean more cooperation with the EU than British fishermen had expected.
This insight is from POLITICO‘s Brexit Files newsletter, a daily afternoon digest of the best coverage and analysis of Britain’s decision to leave the EU. Read today’s edition or subscribe here.


George Osborne told people he wants Theresa May “chopped up in bags in my freezer,” according to a profile of the former chancellor of the exchequer turned editor of the Evening Standard newspaper.
Osborne has repeatedly used the pages of his newspaper to attack May, who sacked him from the Cabinet after the Brexit vote. He called her “a dead woman walking” after the disastrous election in June in which she lost her parliamentary majority, and branded her target to cut net migration to below 100,000 “economically illiterate.”
A profile in Esquire magazine on Wednesday, says: “According to one staffer at the newspaper, Osborne has told more than one person that he will not rest until she [May] ‘is chopped up in bags in my freezer.'”
However, Osborne said he is not trying to settle scores, telling the magazine he’s “sticking it to the Corbynista left and the hard-Brexit right.”


STRASBOURG — One speed. One currency. One president.
European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker on Wednesday laid out his vision for a more unified and politically-accountable European Union after Brexit, which would combine the presidencies of the Commission and the Council, complete the euro currency zone, and generally push the bloc to take “a democratic leap forward” in unison and at a single speed.
Speaking in deeply personal terms in his annual State of the Union address to the European Parliament in Strasbourg, Juncker called for a special summit to be held in Romania after the U.K. leaves the EU at the end of March 2019, where leaders would transform EU governance by combining the top two presidencies into a single post, to be filled through an election campaign.
It was a remarkable proposal, given that the EU is often mocked as a bureaucracy that only adds presidencies. Currently it has five: the Commission; Council; Parliament; European Central Bank; and Eurogroup. Juncker’s vision would leave just three, by placing responsibility for the eurozone with a Commission vice president effectively acting as economics and finance minister.
In proposing to combine the top two jobs in Brussels, Juncker stressed that he would not run for a second term at the Commission in 2019, and that he was not criticizing Council President Donald Tusk, whose second and final term ends that year.
“Europe would function better if we were to merge the presidents of the European Commission and the European Council,” Juncker said, adding: “Europe would be easier to understand if one captain was steering the ship. Having a single president would better reflect the true nature of our European Union as both a union of states and a union of citizens.”
But Juncker’s call for re-envisioning EU leadership, less than a decade after the creation of the standalone Council presidency, risked being seen as a power grab — for the Commission if not for Juncker personally — and therefore dismissed by national leaders well aware of the fierce inter-institutional rivalry between the Commission and the Council.
Indeed, his proposal hit immediate resistance. “Let’s not mix roles and competences,” Danish Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen tweeted in swift response. “Need @eucopresident as voice of member states.”
Juncker’s speech won high marks, at least among pro-EU listeners, for being bold and forward-looking, and with sharp focus on many of the bloc’s key priorities. And the high priority that Juncker and his team placed on the address, including a major publicity campaign, grew out of their conviction that this was the moment to begin shaping his legacy and putting a lasting stamp on Europe.
Still, there is a good chance that many of his plans will go nowhere, or will have to be scaled back.
As with all big EU decisions, most of Juncker’s vision — including his call for a shift away from the unanimity required for big EU decisions — will require the unanimous approval of EU leaders. And some veteran officials said they detected no appetite for tinkering with the delicate system of checks and balances established by the Lisbon Treaty in 2009.
“Leaders have made it clear in Bratislava and most lately in Rome that they want the EU to deliver on the concerns of citizens and not get distracted by institutional debates,” one senior EU official said, referring to recent Council summits.
As has become his tradition, Juncker delivered the speech in English, French and German, and this year’s address offered a detailed policy blueprint for his final two years in office, in which he clearly hopes to shape his legacy. He also put forward his own answer to the debate on the future of Europe that the Commission kicked off in a white paper earlier this year.
The white paper offered up five scenarios, including allowing for a so-called “multi-speed” Europe in which some countries that wanted deeper cooperation could pursue it. But Juncker described his own, personal “sixth scenario,” which in many ways was far more ambitious, with a completed single currency zone, and a single-speed Europe with its foot firmly on the accelerator.
In one of many policy proposals, Juncker called for empowering the recently-created European public prosecutor with authority to enforce common anti-terrorism laws. While it is far from clear how, or even if, such a proposal could be carried out, it showed Juncker is intent on seizing a role for the EU in addressing one of the top priorities of citizens across Europe.
Juncker also called for shifting away, in some cases, particularly on foreign policy and defense, from the unanimity required in most Council votes as a way to speed up EU decision-making. That proposal, however, was likely to draw a quizzical response in national capitals, especially Berlin, over whether faster decisions were ever worth exposing divisions between EU countries on foreign policy matters.
In putting forward his vision, Juncker, a former 19-year prime minister of Luxembourg, loudly proclaimed his own expertise and authority to lead the EU in what he called the “time to move from reflection to action; from debate to decision.”
“I have lived and worked for the European project my entire life,” said Juncker. “At times I have suffered with and because of Europe and even despaired for it. Through thick and thin, I have never lost my love of Europe. But there is rarely love without pain.”
In pursuit of his more unified EU, Juncker called for immediately extending the Schengen visa-free travel zone to Bulgaria and Romania, which remain outside despite a decade of membership in the bloc. He also called for incorporating Croatia into the Schengen zone “once it meets all the criteria.”
Throughout his presidency, Juncker has grappled with the growing divide between Eastern and Western Europe, and he used his speech to try to bridge the gap. Rather than upbraiding Poland, which has clashed repeatedly with Brussels in recent months over changes to its judicial system, Juncker made strong overtures to other eastern nations.
In addition to urging the inclusion of Bulgaria and Romania in Schengen, he addressed the problem of dual food standards — a major concern in the east. The offer of assistance for countries joining the currency zone and the opposition to a multi-speed approach, which many in the east fear will leave them behind, also served as an olive branch.
Instead of any pointed criticism of Poland, Juncker opted for strong lines on rule-of-law and respect for European Court of Justice decisions. “The judgements of the court have to be respected by all,” he said. “To undermine them, or to undermine the independence of national courts, is to strip citizens of their fundamental rights.”
To complete the currency zone, Juncker said the EU should make an offer that is nearly impossible for countries that have not yet adopted the euro to refuse to do so — by creating a “euro-accession instrument” and offering technical and financial assistance.
That push would be bolstered by also completing the banking union, which Juncker called “a matter of urgency.” And he said the financial advances would only work if the EU adopted a “pillar of social rights” to protect workers and pensioners and guarantee common standards.
In many ways, Juncker’s financial and economic proposals clashed sharply with the vision put forward by French President Emmanuel Macron. And in carefully calibrating his remarks about an EU finance minister, and rejecting Macron’s idea of a eurozone parliament, Juncker sided solidly with the more cautious approach of German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
While those positions may put him east-of-center in a potential tug-of-war between Paris and Berlin, Juncker also loaded his speech with legacy-building initiatives that look beyond Europe’s internal debates, including pushing aggressively for new international trade agreements that would cement the EU’s position as the leading champion of global free trade.
“Partners across the globe are lining up at our door to conclude trade agreements with us,” he declared, adding that deals with Australia and New Zealand were at the top of the list, with Mexico and South American countries not far behind. It is, however, a strategy full of risk and potential pitfalls — none of which Juncker noted in his address.
On migration, Juncker effectively declared victory in the EU’s handling of the 2015 crisis, but he acknowledged much more remained to be done. And the cost of victory was also evident, as Juncker adopted much rhetoric that previously was associated with hard-right EU leaders like Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
“People who have no right to stay in Europe must be returned to their countries of origin,” he said. “When only 36 percent of irregular migrants are returned, it is clear we need to significantly step up our work.” He stressed the importance of partnership with Africa, essentially paying countries to stem the tide of refugees, while noting that maintaining a process for legal immigration was important. “Legal migration is a necessity for Europe as an aging continent,” he said.
Juncker called for keeping the door open to new EU members, but said there was no qualified candidate on the horizon, effectively crushing Turkey’s chances without officially doing so. “This rules out EU membership for Turkey for the foreseeable future,” he said.
On a political level, Juncker made a robust argument in favor of increasing the role of electoral politics in determining the EU leadership, and he defended the lead candidates or Spitzenkandidaten process that was put in place in 2014 and led to his own election as the nominee of the European People’s Party.
“If you want to strengthen European democracy, then you cannot reverse the democratic progress seen with the creation of lead candidates – Spitzenkandidaten,” he said.
“To understand the challenges of his or her job and the diversity of our member states, a future president should have met citizens in the town halls of Helsinki as well as in the squares of Athens,” he continued. “In my personal experience of such a campaign, it makes you more humble, but also strengthens you during your mandate. And you can face the other leaders in the European Council with the confidence that you have been elected, just as they have.”
Juncker spent few words on Brexit, making clear that his focus was on using Britain’s departure as a way of deepening cooperation among EU countries — something London had long resisted.
“On 29 March 2019, the United Kingdom will leave the European Union,” he said. “This will be a very sad and tragic moment. We will always regret it. But we have to respect the will of the British people.”
The EU should be ready to move on immediately, with an extraordinary summit to be held in Romania, and European parliamentary elections following just a few weeks later.
“My hope is that on 30 March 2019, Europeans will wake up to a Union where we all stand by our values, where all member states firmly respect the rule of law,” Juncker said, drawing his speech to a close. Calling for improvements in economic, labor, social, tax, defense and security policy, he said he envisioned the EU as a place, “where a single president leads the work of the Commission and the European Council, having been elected after a democratic Europe-wide election campaign.”
“If our citizens wake up to this Union on 30 March 2019,” Juncker said, “then they should be able vote in the European Parliament elections a few weeks later with the firm conviction that our Union is a place that works for them.”


Jean-Claude Juncker’s State of the Union address in Strasbourg — delivered in a combination of English, French and German — ended with polite standing applause.
The 70-minute speech was the most measured of Juncker’s three annual addresses since taking office in 2014. The European Commission president resisted engaging with hecklers on all but one occasion and avoided the long spontaneous riffs that were hallmarks of his previous State of the Union speeches.
Juncker hit all the expected targets: the EU’s rebound after a rocky Brexit- and populism-filled 2016; proposals on expanded military cooperation, concerted action on trade and trade defense; and the need to bridge the gap between Eastern and Western Europe.
Amid the rosy post-Brexit visions there was still plenty of subtle snark. Here’s a guide to reading between the lines.
What he said: “I have lived and worked for the European project my entire life.”
What he meant: Literally my entire life. So now you have to agree with me.
***
What he said: “We are now protecting Europe’s external borders more effectively.”
What he meant: The border is no longer a free-for-all with people drowning en masse off our coasts.
***
What he said: “Italy is saving Europe’s honor in the Mediterranean.”
What he meant: If I didn’t have these pesky Poles and Hungarians setting my policy on fire, I would do more for you, Italy.
***
What he said: “Africa is a noble and young continent … the cradle of humanity.”
What he meant: My speech committee couldn’t quite agree, then I lost my place in the script. Err, where were we again? Africa — have some more money.
***
What he said:  “For me, Europe is more than just a single market. More than money, more than the euro. It was always about values … freedom, equality and the rule of law.”
What he meant: You want the money, Eastern Europe? Take a hint.
***
What he said: “East to West: Europe must breathe with both lungs. Otherwise, our Continent will struggle for air.”
What he meant: I might be a heavy smoker, but I’m not going for the lung transplant option.
***
What he said: “A more united Union should see compromise not as something negative, but as the art of bridging differences. Democracy cannot function without compromise. Europe cannot function without compromise.”
What he meant: Calling London! You have a Brexit compromise to make.
***
What he said: “It is unacceptable that in 2017 there are still children dying of diseases that should long have been eradicated in Europe.”
What he meant: I want a policy on something everyone agrees on.
***
What he said: “I am proud of our car industry. But I am shocked when consumers are knowingly and deliberately misled. I call on the car industry to come clean and make it right.”
What he meant: Pay up, and change your technology, my German friends. Or I’ll make you do it.
***
What he said: “The rule of law is not optional in the European Union. It is a must. Our Union is not a state but it is a community of law.”
What he meant: Poland and Hungary are stealing citizens’ fundamental rights. I’ll give you more fish in your fish fingers, but you better stop the ancient forest logging and let in some refugees.
***
What he said: To the Turkish government: “Stop insulting our member states by comparing their leaders to fascists and Nazis.”
What he meant: Seriously, stop calling our member countries and heads of government fascists.
***
What he said: “Journalists belong in newsrooms, not in prisons. They belong where freedom of expression reigns.”
What he meant: It would be better if you give my speech a good review. But I agree not to put you in prison if you don’t.
***
What he said: “Slovaks do not deserve less fish in their fish fingers. Hungarians less meat in their meals. Czechs less cacao in their chocolate.”
What he meant: Everyone is a first-class citizen. That also brings first-class responsibilities.
***
What he said: “The commissioner for economic and financial affairs — ideally also a vice president — should assume the role of economy and finance minister. He or she should also preside in the Eurogroup.”
What he meant: More power, more accountability for the EU. And no more Margrethe Vestager as the Commission’s only executive star.
***
What he said: “By 2025 we need a fully-fledged European Defense Union. We need it. And NATO wants it.”
What he meant: Take that, Brexit Britain!
***
What he said: “Europe would function better if we were to merge the presidents of the European Commission and the European Council … Europe would be easier to understand if one captain was steering the ship.”
What he meant: The ship will sink if we don’t do this. Bon voyage!


Woody Johnson, the new U.S. ambassador to the U.K., used his first official speech Tuesday to reaffirm ties between the two countries despite Brexit and reassure Brits that they will warm to President Donald Trump with time.
“I can promise you, when you get to know him, you’ll like him,” Johnson said at an annual lecture of an Anglo-American friendship society in London.
Heir to the Johnson & Johnson pharmaceutical company and owner of the New York Jets football team, the 70-year-old, billionaire ambassador has known Trump for over 30 years and is one of Trump’s biggest fundraisers, the Telegraph reported.
The long-standing U.S.-U.K. relationship will weather Britain pulling out of the European Union, Johnson told the audience.
“Our position on Brexit is clear,” he said. “We want a strong and prosperous U.K. to remain a leader in Europe, and we want both the U.K. and the EU to remain strong leaders globally.”
Johnson clarified that the U.S. will be a “strong and reliable trade partner” and that the U.K., “our most enduring ally,” would always be “at the head of the line” as far as Trump is concerned.
His comments mark a change of tone from former President Barack Obama’s statement ahead of the Brexit vote last year that the U.K. would be at the “back of the queue” on future trade deals if it chose to leave the EU.
“Our countries are among each other’s largest inward investors,” Johnson said. “Americans and Brits hold roughly $1 trillion of investment and employ approximately 1 million people in each other’s countries — jobs that have increased prosperity and opportunity in all four countries of the United Kingdom and in every American state.”
Johnson also commended the NATO ally’s defense commitments and praised military cooperation between the two countries, according to the Telegraph.


European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker proposed combining the Commission and Council presidencies — a move that would transform the EU leadership and consolidate authority in a single figure who would campaign for the post.
The proposal was part of Juncker’s deeply personal pitch for the future of Europe in his State of the European Union speech on Wednesday, and could be accomplished without changes to the existing EU treaties.
“Europe would function better if we were to merge the presidents of the European Commission and the European Council,” Juncker told the European Parliament in Strasbourg.
“Europe would be easier to understand if one captain was steering the ship.”
Juncker noted that he would not be running for a second term in 2019, and stressed that the proposal was not intended as a criticism of Council President Donald Tusk, his counterpart since 2014.
His proposal would consolidate the leadership of the Commission, the EU’s technocratic executive branch, with the relatively new position of Council president, who serves as the convenor and coordinator of the bloc’s 28 (soon to be 27) heads of state and government.
Juncker closed his speech with a hope that EU citizens would wake up in 2019 with a single president at the helm.


STRASBOURG — Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker will call for non-eurozone countries to join the EU’s common currency in his State of the European Union address in Strasbourg Wednesday, according to an EU diplomat who briefed reporters on the speech beforehand.
Juncker will issue “a strong invitation,” the diplomat said, paired with a new “convergence instrument” — money to help countries get up to speed and meet criteria for introducing the euro.
That would mean an incentive for those interested in joining and an offer that will be hard to reject for countries that have said they aren’t, such as Poland.
Juncker’s speech will also include an outline of proposed reforms of the eurozone’s governance, with more detail to be provided later this year. The Commission president wants to bring the European Stability Mechanism “into the EU system,” the diplomat said, meaning the European Parliament would have partial oversight over the EU’s rescue fund, instead of national governments only.
Rather than creating a new EU finance minister, as proposed by French President Emmanuel Macron, Juncker will call for a European Commission vice president to head Eurogroup finance minsters’ meetings.
Opposing plans for the “multispeed” Europe advocated by Macron, among others, Juncker will argue Brexit is an opportunity to come together, as much of the bloc’s lack of alignment was caused by opt-outs from common policies and special rules for Britain, the diplomat said. The Schengen travel area and the euro, which every EU country with the exception of Britain and Denmark must officially adopt when they meet the criteria, are two examples of the multispeed EU Juncker will point to.
“This is an opportunity to end that,” the diplomat said.
The push for alignment is part of a wider plan to heal Brexit wounds by the time the U.K. leaves the EU.
Juncker will present a “roadmap” for the next 18 months, according to the diplomat, which he will send to national capitals this week. The plan will culminate in a summit on Brexit Day in March 2019.
It will also include a call to make the EU’s decision-making more efficient.
Juncker will propose moving from unanimous to majority decisions in areas such as energy, taxation and social policies, where the EU treaty already foresees that possibility (called passerelles in EU-speak). The move would require consent from all EU countries to pass.


Regional prosecutors ordered Catalan police to halt the regional government’s plans to hold an independence referendum October 1. To avoid “the consummation of crime,” the Catalan prosecutor’s office said, police must confiscate ballot boxes and all other election materials. The national government in Madrid has labeled the referendum illegal and promised to prevent it by all legal means at its disposal.


United Kingdom
British front pages focused on news Prime Minister Theresa May bowed to pressure and scrapped caps on police and prison officers’ salaries. The decision, the Financial Times said, ended “one of the most divisive austerity measures imposed by the Conservative-led government.” Unions still aren’t happy, the Guardian reported, calling for the cap to be removed for all public sector employees. “May faces pay backlash after lifting 1% cap,” was the Guardian’s headline.


“The government is preparing massive expansion of identity checks,” Le Monde reported. The paper said immigration police will be posted to 373 ports, airports and train stations around France’s borders to check incoming passengers. Right-leaning Le Figaro criticized Tuesday’s union-organized protests against President Emmanuel Macron’s proposed labor reforms, calling them “weak.” In an editorial, the paper called on the president to “Cede nothing.”


Most German papers led with the National Socialist Underground murder case, in which Beate Zschäpe, the sole surviving member of a neo-Nazi group, is on trial for murder. On Monday, prosecutors demanded the court hand her a life sentence for her role in the murder of 10 people, most of whom were Turkish. Süddeutsche Zeitung also reported Berlin was considering “tougher action against Ankara,” including classifying Turkey a country with “special security risks.”




LONDON — POLITICO CEO Patrick Steel and Executive Editor Matthew Kaminski welcomed guests to the Institute for Government on Carlton Gardens for an evening of cocktails, live music and conversation to celebrate the launch of London Playbook.
Guests raised a toast to Jack Blanchard, the new London Playbook editor, as he was joined by fellow Playbook authors Anna Palmer, from DC Playbook, and Ryan Heath, from Brussels.
If you’ve not done so already, you can sign up to London Playbook here.
Pictures by James Spicer.


 


As a top official in U.S. President Donald Trump’s transition team, Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn actively promoted a private-sector scheme to build dozens of nuclear reactors across the Middle East known informally in the transition as the “Marshall Plan.” But he did not publicly disclose that backers of the plan had paid him at least $25,000.
Flynn communicated during the transition with the backers of the for-profit plan, billed as a way of strengthening ties between the U.S. and Arab allies looking to develop nuclear power capability. Meanwhile, the Trump adviser expressed his support for the plan with people inside the transition —and discussed its merits with others beyond Trump Tower, according to sources within and close to the Trump team at that time.
Flynn’s consulting work for the company has been previously reported, but not the extent of his involvement during the Trump transition, nor the full amount he was paid for it.
Flynn first publicly disclosed his consulting work for the Virginia-based venture, X-Co Dynamics/Iron Bridge Group, in a Feb. 11 federal filing, two days before he resigned as White House national security adviser. Flynn did not specify how much he had been paid, and is unclear whether he might have disclosed that work to White House officials previously.
Robert Kelner, a Flynn lawyer, declined to comment. Flynn has not been accused of wrongdoing in the matter, and it is unclear if he faces any legal liability.
But the new details underscore the way Flynn seemed to commingle his private consulting work prior to Trump’s election and his semi-official duties afterward — something that has drawn legal scrutiny and created political headaches for a Trump White House that granted him access to the government’s deepest secrets.
Congressional investigators along with special counsel Robert Mueller are investigating Flynn’s activities during the Trump transition as part of their larger probes into potential Russian influence in the 2016 election. They include his failure to disclose payments he took from Russian companies in 2015 and for 2016 lobbying work funded by a businessman with close ties to Turkey’s government.
Federal investigators have questioned others in the wider Russian probe about Flynn activities during the transition that may have overlapped with undisclosed business work.
A spokesman for the special counsel’s office declined to comment. A transition official said the transition was not aware of any investigation into Flynn.
The company that paid Flynn, X-Co/Iron Bridge, has closed. A lawyer representing Rear Adm. Michael Hewitt, the former CEO and his new company, IP3, did not respond to multiple requests for comment. Messages left at Hewitt’s new firm Tuesday were not returned. Neither Hewitt nor his companies have been accused of wrongdoing or legal liability.
Flynn’s February report to the U.S. office of Government Ethics disclosed that he advised X-Co/Iron Bridge from August 2015 to December 2016
Flynn’s role in the so-called Marshall Plan does not appear tied to potential Russian election interference. But Mueller’s examination of Flynn’s transition activities unnerves Trump officials and who fear a wide-ranging investigation that finds wrongdoing in places far from where it started. A person familiar with the investigation said Mueller’s team seems particularly interested in Flynn’s post-November actions.
The “Marshall Plan,” a reference to the post-World War II U.S. plan to rebuild Europe, took its name from an ambitious business proposal, obtained by Newsweek in June, that would “bring economic development, jobs, security, stability and shared prosperity to the region.” While many Trump transition officials were unfamiliar with the idea, which never became part of any administration policy statement, high-level discussions led by Flynn took place for at least several weeks.
As described in the original proposal, the plan envisioned funding by Middle East governments at no U.S. taxpayer cost.
The ambitious vision had prominent backers with military backgrounds. The X-Co/Iron Bridge board included former National Security Agency director and retired Gen. Keith Alexander and retired Marine Corps Gen. James “Hoss” Cartwright, former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
But it seems to have gone nowhere after its most powerful advocate, Flynn, was fired 24 days into the Trump administration for misleading Vice President Mike Pence about his communications with Russia’s ambassador to Washington.


European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker will deliver his State of the European Union at the European Parliament in Strasbourg on Wednesday, setting out the Commission’s priorities for 2018.
Speaking in an extended interview last month at his office in the Commission’s Berlaymont building, Juncker laid out some of the thoughts that will feed into his speech, including a push for greater EU integration — without losing less enthusiastic Eastern European countries along the way.



LONDON — Theresa May has found her Willie.
Every prime minister needs one, Margaret Thatcher famously quipped, in praise of her long-serving and long-suffering deputy Willie Whitelaw. Until this summer’s U.K. general election, May was so dominant she didn’t feel the need for a loyal No. 2, preferring to rule alone with her attack dog chiefs of staff, Nick Timothy and Fiona Hill.
Disaster at the ballot box on June 8 changed everything. Out went the two chiefs and much of the prime minister’s authority. Cabinet ministers, already split between soft Brexiteers — like Amber Rudd and Philip Hammond — and hard-line Leavers — like David Davis and Boris Johnson — were liberated to fight among themselves.
The prime minister had asked the country to strengthen her negotiating position with Brussels, but emerged from the bruising seven-week campaign with one hand tied behind her back. She had to reshape her team in Downing Street — and more importantly her approach to governing — to stand any chance of delivering Brexit with the consent of all wings of her party and the 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs upon whose support her government rests.
May quickly concluded she needed a broker, according to senior government officials, and turned to Damian Green, the prime minister’s oldest friend in politics — a passionate pro-European, liberal Tory and May loyalist with friends across both wings of the party.
On Saturday June 10, barely 24 hours after confirmation that the government had lost its majority, Green was called into No. 10 Downing Street and promoted to first secretary of state — the most senior position in government below the office of prime minister. His promotion was announced by email that day. It was a stellar rise for the work and pensions secretary who had only been in the Cabinet since July 2016, having been sacked from the government in 2014 for being, it was whispered by Tory MPs at the time, too “old, pale and stale.”
Along with the prime minister and Brexit Secretary Davis, Green is now, officially, one of the three most important people in the Brexit process. His role, he said in an interview with POLITICO, is to act as the oil in the government machine, keeping it ticking along whenever it shows signs of grinding to a halt in acrimony, dispute or petty rivalry. Green is the prime minister’s Brexit broker, the peacemaker finding compromise between the competing demands of the hard and soft Brexiteers sitting around the Cabinet table. 
“Every government needs a fixer,” Green said last week, sitting in his office a short walk from the prime minister’s in the heart of the Whitehall government machine. “There will be conflicting interests between departments and they need solving. Every government needs this to happen. Different governments find different ways of doing it.”
Many who know Green say he is well-suited to his new role at the prime minister’s side. His job, he said, is not to enforce her will — as the former chiefs of staff Timothy and Hill saw their role — but to negotiate problems between other Cabinet ministers. The power dynamics have shifted and so too must the way the prime minister handles them.
Green is a daily presence inside May’s new-look Downing Street operation, which is headed up by “the Gavins” — chief of staff Gavin Barwell and chief whip Gavin Williamson — and new Director of Communications Robbie Gibb.
“The atmosphere is indescribably better since the election, and Damian is a big part of that,” one senior No. 10 official said. “He is a good guy to have around. You cannot help but like him. But he’s also very sharp and crucially he gets media — he used to be a hack.”
Aides refer to Green ubiquitously as the FSS — First Secretary of State — and say his affable manner chimes with that of the calm and collected Barwell and Gibb. “Everyone is saying how much better it is in terms of being listened to compared with the old regime,” said one former No. 10 staffer. “MPs and Cabinet ministers, Leave or Remain — Damian gets on with everyone.”
A serving Tory minister, who said he could not speak on the record, agreed. “He is an excellent choice as fixer-in-chief. At a time when we need grown ups around the place, Damian fits the bill perfectly.”
Others are less effusive, though. One former ministerial colleague in the Home Office, who did not wish to be named, damned him with faint praise. “He’s a reasonably nice guy,” the former minister said. “He’s more left of center than most, but his appointment demonstrates a lack of confidence that she [May] has to surround herself with Home Office people.”
Green is centrist, amiable and a consistent media performer, but his career in parliament has not been without controversy.
In 2008 he was arrested by counterterrorism police on suspicion of “conspiring to commit misconduct in a public office, and aiding and abetting, counselling or procuring misconduct in a public office” after obtaining leaked Whitehall documents. After a political furor over Green’s arrest, he was acquitted without charge. Green would later go on to be police minister in the Home Office.
The ace up Green’s sleeve is that elusive asset in British politics at the moment — having the trust of the prime minister, according to government officials familiar with his relationship.
May has known Green since university in the 1970s, when they were contemporaries at Oxford. They met through Green’s then girlfriend and now wife, Alicia Collinson, who was May’s tutorial partner. Collinson, who studied geography with May at St Hugh’s College, would later reveal how the young Theresa Brasier had her eyes on No. 10 even then, she told the Spectator magazine.
Both Green and May were elected to parliament in 1997, both appointed to junior education roles a year later and then worked together in the Home Office from 2010.
Even in the three months he’s been in the job, Green has been forced to call in bickering Cabinet ministers to resolve their disputes in person around his grand, coffin-shaped desk in his room in the cabinet office, he said.
Cabinet fallouts, common in any government, have taken on even more significance as the clock ticks down to March 29, 2019, when Britain leaves the European Union with or without an exit deal. Rows over money, or ideology, cannot be kicked into the long grass — they need to be resolved, and resolved quickly, or Brexit could spiral out of control.
Green has had to mobilize on two occasions over the summer to rescue key government legislation caught between the competing demands of hard and soft Brexiteers in the Cabinet, senior officials said.
The upcoming trade white paper, which government officials said was penciled in for publication in “the coming weeks,” split Philip Hammond’s Treasury and Liam Fox’s Department for International Trade. The two departments were in conflict over the future rules the U.K. will operate under, according to one well-placed minister familiar with the nature of the discussions. Green was also involved in smoothing out a Cabinet disagreement over future immigration rules set to be published in the coming weeks in another white paper, one official added.
Green admits the calamitous general election result changed how May’s government went about its business.
“I think the general election changed the political situation and we set up the government in a different way,” he said. “But we still have the same issues that were facing the government before the election.”
In his role keeping the government machine ticking, Green serves as deputy chair for May on every major Cabinet committee (the crucial decision-making bodies governing Brexit policy), attends the daily 8:30 a.m. meeting in No. 10 that sets the agenda for the day ahead, and has been given the task of minimizing conflict with the devolved administrations in Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast.
Green said it is here, not in London, where the crisis over Brexit may become most acute. 
“All the devolution settlements were created while we were a member of the EU and when they were being written, none of the various governments which wrote them thought, ‘Well, what happens if?’ There is just no provision in the devolution settlements for leaving the EU.”
If Britain is not careful, Green said, it could endanger not only its access to the single European market but the essence of the single U.K. market as well.
“We must ensure the benefits of free trade around the U.K., which we’ve all taken for granted because we are one country, are preserved after Brexit because a lot of the rules about trade have been operated at a European level rather than at a U.K. level.” 
Green said that without proper controls “subsidy wars” between England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland could spiral out of control as each devolved government makes use of its newfound freedoms.
“Agriculture is clearly an area where most of the rules were set at European level but those that weren’t are devolved down and we want to continue that,” Green said. “We need to make sure that we don’t have subsidy wars to try to help sheep farmers, some in Scotland and some in Wales and so on.”


Jean-Claude Juncker’s State of the Union speech will be, according to Commission spokesman Margaritis Schinas, “an important political moment for the European Commission, for Europe, for the president … and for the world.”
A speech of such earth-shattering importance deserves a frivolous game to match. So pour yourself a large one (yes, even at 9 a.m.) and enjoy a round of State of the Union bingo.
(Download an A4 printable version of the bingo card here.)



LONDON — Theresa May overcame another hurdle in her battle to get Brexit legislation through the House of Commons late Tuesday.
A motion to give the government a majority on lawmaking committees, which are a key part of the legislative process, was backed by MPs with a majority of 19 (320 in favor, 301 against), after the Democratic Unionist Party and Conservative MPs supported the move.
It was the second crucial parliamentary victory for the government in two days after the EU (Withdrawal) Bill, which will bring EU law onto the U.K. statute books post-Brexit, passed with a majority of 36 in the early hours of Tuesday morning.
After losing her parliamentary majority in June after calling a snap election, May struck a deal with the DUP, who agreed to back her government on key votes.
By long-standing convention, the party balance on committees matches the distribution of votes in the last general election. That left May without a majority, which is why she prepared this motion.
A U.K. bill has three stages, called readings. Between the second and third readings there is a committee stage where a bill is scrutinized clause by clause.
Labour accused the government of effectively tearing up the 2017 general election result by trying to give themselves a majority in committee. Leader Jeremy Corbyn told the Huffington Post: “Theresa May lost her mandate and her authority in June, now she wants to fix it by the back door.”
One backbench Tory MP told POLITICO MPs on his side saw it as “ruthless power politics” and they were quite happy for it to go ahead.
The Liberal Democrats accused May of a “sinister power grab,” after the Conservatives won the vote.


Martin Schulz wrote to Angela Merkel asking her to agree to a second head-to-head TV debate, the Social Democrat leader said Tuesday evening.
“Too many questions are still open,” Schulz said during a live question-and-answer show on the broadcaster ZDF.
But Merkel ultimately rejected Schulz’s request, Spiegel reported Wednesday.
“Everything has been said on this topic,” her CDU party said in a statement, adding that the chancellor enjoyed participating in the first debate.
“This format proved itself worthwhile and she leaves it at that.”
Schulz’s plea comes two weeks ahead of the September 24 election. The first and so far only TV debate between Merkel and Schulz was held on September 3, but Schulz didn’t perform well enough to close the gap on Merkel.
The Social Democrats (SPD) are well behind Merkel’s Christian Democrats (CDU) in the polls. An Insa institute survey out Tuesday put the SPD on 23.5 percent and the CDU on 36.5 percent.
On ZDF on Tuesday, Schulz answered questions from a studio audience.
As well as talking about health care, pensions and security, he also urged Hungary and Poland to take in more refugees.
Merkel will make an appearance on ZDF on Thursday evening.



PARIS — If protests across France on Tuesday were a test of Emmanuel Macron’s reforming mettle, the French president passed without much trouble.
Across the country, between 220,000 and 400,000 people turned out for protests against controversial plans to overhaul the labor code, according to estimates from the police and organizers, respectively.
Hundreds of strike actions were also carried out, with minimal disruption to most public services. Philippe Martinez, whose hard-line CGT trade union organized the protest with smaller allies, said the day of action had achieved its goals.
“It’s a first day of protest that looks like a success,” said the mustachioed former metal worker, whose trade union participated in months of closed-door negotiations on the reform, which is due to become law later this month.
Far-left MP Jean-Luc Mélenchon, whose France Unbowed movement has been Macron’s most vocal opponent since he won power in May, joined a demonstration in Marseille. He promised that his followers, who will hold a separate protest on September 23, would force the government to “back down” on its reform plans, which aim to make labor market rules more flexible in a bid to stimulate hiring.
“This country wants nothing to do with the liberal world,” said Mélenchon, who finished third in the presidential election behind Macron and Marine Le Pen, head of the far-right National Front.
However, in terms of turnout, the protests were not an obvious success. Last year, when former President François Hollande was carrying out a less ambitious reform of the labor code, the CGT estimated that 100,000 people had answered its call to protest in Paris. This time, the union put the number at 60,000, although the police estimate was 24,000.
Protests may well gather momentum later this month, when university students are due to swell the size of demonstrations.
But for a first show of force, Tuesday’s showing was underwhelming, highlighting a grudging acceptance of Macron’s plans and exhaustion among trade unions and far-left forces, who staged weeks of strikes and protests last year that failed to make the government back down on its plans. Heavy rain in Paris didn’t help their cause.
The president, whose approval scores fell below 40 percent in one poll this month, was not in France to witness the first big challenge against his authority.
Instead, Macron spent the day in the French Antilles surveying the devastation caused by Hurricane Irma. Footage of the president in his shirtsleeves greeting local authorities and aid workers competed throughout the day with images from the protests. Macron barely made any reference to the protests back home, except to call for “dignity” and say it was time for “national unity.”
Even so the protesters did score some points against the president, whose comments about “slackers and cynics” holding up reforms in France caused uproar this week. At protests across the country, marchers co-opted the “slacker” term and turned it against the president.
“I’d rather be a slacker than a CEO,” read one placard hoisted by a protester in Paris. “King Macron, the slackers will kick you out,” read another.
In Paris, several protesters told POLITICO they had come out to voice anger not just at the reform but at a president whom they called “arrogant” and “out of touch.”
“I think that [slacker] remark was grotesque, absolutely objectionable,” said Elisabeth Rouvillois, a retired demographics specialist protesting in Paris. “He’s going after people who can’t find jobs, who have no way of finding training or any opportunities. It’s awful.”
Amélie Lenninger, a 31-year-old who works for a nonprofit group, said the president was carrying out an “attack against human dignity. He is mocking us … He is doing all of this to please his rich friends.”
Another young protester who asked to be identified only as Manu said he had no clear view on the labor reform, and that “some things” needed to change. But he was clear in his dislike for Macron. “I don’t recognize any of the values that he represents: competitiveness, pursuing wealth, more success. It’s not my thing.”
Further protests scheduled for later this month may well build on the resentment of self-identified “slackers.” If university students turn out en masse, Macron may well come to regret his words, despite saying Monday that he took “nothing back.”


Hillary Clinton promised an unvarnished take on the 2016 presidential election in her new book, “What Happened.” When it comes to her political foes and frenemies, she delivered.
The vanquished Democratic nominee offers unsparing take-downs of both Republicans and Democrats who she believed treated her unfairly, while also going after media personalities and foreign figures.
Below are some of the most stark examples of Clinton dishing out political payback in the book, released on Tuesday.
Clinton heaped blame on former FBI Director James Comey, especially for his late October letter essentially reopening the investigation into her use of a private email server at the State Department.
In her book, Clinton wrote that Comey had departed from “long-standing Justice Department policy” with his unusually public airing of the FBI’s investigation. In the days and weeks following her election loss, the former secretary of state wrote that she tried to put the campaign out of her mind, in part because “it wasn’t healthy or productive to dwell on the ways I felt I’d been shivved by then-FBI Director Jim Comey—three times over the final five months of the campaign.”
“I can’t know what was in Comey’s head. I don’t know if he had anything against me personally, or if he thought I was going to win the election and worried that if he didn’t speak out he’d later be attacked by Republicans or his own agents. What I do know, though, is that when you’re the head of an agency as important as the FBI, you have to care a lot more about how things really are than how they look, and you have to be willing to take the heat that goes along with the big job.”
Clinton offered some praise for her chief 2016 primary rival, crediting Sanders with generating political interest in young people and calling him a “disciplined and effective politician.” But she also said campaigning against him was “profoundly frustrating” because “He didn’t seem to mind if his math didn’t add up or if his plans had no prayer of passing Congress and becoming law.”
Clinton also blamed Sanders for laying the groundwork for some of Trump’s general election attacks by painting her as too cozy with Wall Street and other moneyed interests. Sanders resorted to those barbs despite a previous pledge to avoid personal attacks, Clinton said, because the two were too closely aligned on many key policy issues.
“Nonetheless, his attacks caused lasting damage, making it harder to unify progressives in the general election and paving the way for Trump’s ‘Crooked Hillary’ campaign. I don’t know if that bothered Bernie or not. He certainly shared my horror at the thought of Donald Trump becoming President, and I appreciated that he campaigned for me in the general election. But he isn’t a Democrat—that’s not a smear, that’s what he says. He didn’t get into the race to make sure a Democrat won the White House, he got in to disrupt the Democratic Party.”
Clinton airs her grievances against Trump throughout the book, including her personal distaste for the reality TV star whose wedding she attended in 2005. In one particular passage, Clinton recalls her town hall-style debate against Trump, in which the president loomed behind her as she answered questions. She said her “skin crawled” because Trump was “literally breathing down my neck.”
Clinton said that although she chose not to make an issue of Trump invading her personal space, she considered looking “him in the eye and say loudly and clearly, ‘back up you creep, get away from me. I know you love to intimidate women but you can’t intimidate me, so back up.’”
“I chose option A. I kept my cool, aided by a lifetime of dealing with difficult men trying to throw me off. I did, however, grip the microphone extra hard. I wonder, though, whether I should have chosen option B. It certainly would have been better TV. Maybe I have overlearned the lesson of staying calm, biting my tongue, digging my fingernails into a clenched fist, smiling all the while, determined to present a composed face to the world.”
Clinton expressed her frustration with Biden, who considered and ultimately decided against mounting his own presidential bid in 2016, over his post-election critiques. The former vice president instead served as a high-profile surrogate for Clinton, headlining rallies with his trademark folksy, blue-collar style in the leadup to Election Day.
But after Clinton’s loss, Biden grew more critical of the former secretary of state and of the message Democrats conveyed, especially in white, working class areas that have traditionally voted Democratic but instead supported Trump last November.
“Another easy explanation that doesn’t stand up to scrutiny is that I lost because I didn’t have an economic message. Joe Biden said the Democratic Party in 2016 ‘did not talk about what it always stood for—and that was how to maintain a burgeoning middle class.’ He said, ‘You didn’t hear a single solitary sentence in the last campaign about that guy working on the assembly line making sixty thousand bucks a year and a wife making $32,000 as a hostess in a restaurant.’ I find this fairly remarkable, considering that Joe himself campaigned for me all over the Midwest and talked plenty about the middle class.”
While Trump has waffled about whether Russia meddled in the election, it is clear from Clinton’s book that there is no doubt in her mind. She lays blame directly at Putin’s feet, writing that “in 2016 our democracy was assaulted by a foreign adversary determined to mislead our people, enflame our divisions, and throw an election to its preferred candidate.”
“What would I have done? There’s nothing I was looking forward to more than showing Putin that his efforts to influence our election and install a friendly puppet had failed. Our first face-to-face meeting would really have been something. I know he must be enjoying everything that’s happened instead. But he hasn’t had the last laugh yet.”
Clinton’s beef with the moderator of NBC’s “Meet the Press” stemmed from a criticism Todd shared of her performance during the first general election debate, held in late September at Hofstra University. Todd was one of multiple media personalities and outlets targeted by the former secretary of state.
“Later, Chuck Todd of NBC’s Meet the Press actually criticized me for being too prepared. I’m not sure how that’s possible—can you be too prepared for something so important? Does Chuck ever show up for Meet the Press and just wing it?”
Clinton’s chief complaint about the Senate majority leader stems from his handling of intelligence information related to Russia’s campaign to interfere in last year’s election.
In her book, Clinton alleges that McConnell warned the Obama administration during last year’s election that any effort to inform the public that the Russian government was behind a wave of cyberattacks on Democratic targets would be met with accusations of “playing politics” from Republicans.
“We know now that even after he was fully briefed by the CIA, McConnell rejected the intelligence and warned the Obama administration that if it made any attempt to inform the public, he would attack it for playing politics. I can’t think of a more shameful example of a national leader so blatantly putting partisanship over national security. McConnell knew better, but he did it anyway.”
Clinton goes after Flynn, Trump’s short-lived former national security adviser, only briefly, but she does so with gusto. Flynn resigned from the White House amid media reports that he had misled Vice President Mike Pence and others about the nature his conversations with Russia’s ambassador to the U.S.
The irony of Flynn — who delighted in “lock her up” chants at Trump rallies and once declared on “Meet the Press” that those who receive immunity from prosecutors in exchange for information “probably committed a crime” — later requesting immunity in exchange for his testimony, did not go unnoticed by Clinton.
“There’s a certain poetic justice now in remembering how enthusiastic Michael Flynn was about sending me to jail.”
The Green Party’s 2016 presidential nominee “wouldn’t be worth mentioning” in Clinton’s book, the former secretary of state wrote, except that her vote totals in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin all exceeded the margin by which Trump won all three states. Clinton also panned Stein for her relative warmth towards Russia, characterizing her as in line with Trump on the issue.
“A small but still significant number of left-wing voters may well have thrown the election to Trump. Jill Stein, the Green Party candidate, called me and my policies ‘much scarier than Donald Trump’ and praised his pro-Russia stance. This isn’t surprising, considering that Stein sat with Putin and Michael Flynn at the infamous Moscow dinner in 2015 celebrating the Kremlin’s propaganda network RT, and later said she and Putin agreed ‘on many issues’ … “in each state, there were more than enough Stein voters to swing the result, just like Ralph Nader did in Florida and New Hampshire in 2000. Maybe, like actress Susan Sarandon, Stein thinks electing Trump will hasten ‘the revolution.’ Who knows?”
Assange’s WikiLeaks website, and others like it, were the public vehicle by which emails hacked from the Democratic National Committee, Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta and others made their way into the public. Although unrelated to the FBI’s investigation into her homebrew email server, the constant trickle of leaked emails made it hard for Clinton to distance herself from the scandal and kept the word “emails” at the front of voters’ minds, she said.
Assange has denied that the source of the emails released on his website was the Russian government, an assertion that Clinton does not accept in her book.
“In my view, Assange is a hypocrite who deserves to be held accountable for his actions. He claims to be a champion of transparency, but for many years, he’s been helpful to Putin, one of the most repressive and least transparent autocrats in the world. It’s not just that WikiLeaks avoids publishing anything Putin won’t like and instead targets Russia’s adversaries—Assange actually hosted a television show on RT, Putin’s propaganda network, and receives adoring coverage there.”
Clinton devoted several pages in her book to Lauer’s performance hosting NBC’s “Commander in Chief forum,” a conversation with both general election candidates held aboard the USS Intrepid.
Lauer questioned Clinton at length about her the email scandal, as did audience questioners. She said NBC had treated the forum as “an episode of The Apprentice, in which Trump stars and ratings soar.” Lauer, the host of NBC’s “Today” show, “had turned what should have been a serious discussion into a pointless ambush. What a waste of time.”
“Trump should have reported [Lauer’s] performance as an in-kind contribution. Later, there were rumors ginned up by fake news reports that I was so mad at him I stormed off stage, threw a tantrum, and shattered a water glass. While I didn’t do any of that, I can’t say I didn’t fantasize about shaking some sense into Lauer while I was out there … Later, I watched Lauer soft-pedal Trump’s interview.”
While Clinton blames the Russian government for its interference campaign, she said conservative media outlets – namely Fox News and its longtime leaders Rupert Murdoch and Roger Ailes – are responsible for laying the groundwork for the Kremlin’s success.
“Rupert Murdoch and the late Roger Ailes probably did more than anyone else to make all this possible. For years, Fox News has been the most powerful and prominent platform for the right-wing war on truth. Ailes, a former advisor to Richard Nixon, built Fox by demonizing and delegitimizing mainstream media that tried to adhere to traditional standards of objectivity and accuracy.”


White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders had one word to describe Hillary Clinton’s new tell-all memoir on the 2016 campaign — “sad.”
“Whether or not he’s going to read Hillary Clinton’s book, I’m not sure. I would think he’s pretty well-versed on what happened, and I think it’s pretty clear to all of America,” Sanders said about President Donald Trump at Tuesday’s press briefing, offering a play on the title of Clinton’s book, “What Happened.”
The former secretary of state’s book, released Tuesday, offers Clinton’s perspective on perhaps the most unconventional presidential campaign in modern U.S. history. Peppered throughout the memoir are criticisms of Trump’s style, rhetoric and policies.
Sanders, whose father, former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, has bragged often about his successes against the “Clinton political machine,” characterized the book as the former secretary of state’s “last chapter” in public life.
“I think it’s sad that after Hillary Clinton ran one of the most negative campaigns in history and lost and the last chapter of her public life is now going to be defined by propping up book sales with false and negligent attacks,” the press secretary said.


Jean-Claude Juncker wants to style the EU as the undisputed champion of global trade when he steps up to deliver his State of the Union address in Strasbourg Wednesday.
The European Commission president’s pièce de résistance will be to propose a fast-track system to ensure Brussels can clock up quick trade deals while U.S. President Donald Trump lurches toward protectionism and Brexit tarnishes Britain’s international standing. He will announce that his first targets for streamlined agreements will be Australia and New Zealand, according to trade diplomats.
But those quick wins will come at a heavy price for the EU.
While Juncker may win kudos as a short-term savior of EU trade policy, his approach to securing fast deals will require slicing out contentious clauses on protecting foreign investors. In rescuing trade deals, Juncker has fallen into another legal and political quagmire over how to protect European businesses in far-flung corners of the world, should their factories be seized or nationalized.
Investment protection has been the Achilles’ heel of EU trade deals over the past few years. Across the Continent, but particularly in Germany, activists and left-wing politicians have repeatedly attacked Brussels’ trade accords as a platform for big corporates to sue governments and undermine standards in food safety, pollution and labor rights. At times, the ferocity of that opposition looked set to bring deal-making to a complete halt.
Kai Mykkänen, Finland’s trade minister, admitted the risks of carving up deals to remove the politically toxic investment clauses but defended Juncker’s proposal.
“Of course there are negative consequences to splitting trade deals … but this is a totally unbalanced situation if investment security questions hijack or make it impossible to get agreements in force, which has been the risk,” he told POLITICO.
Juncker’s objective in Strasbourg is clear. He is out to rebuild the credibility of the EU’s trade policy after the Belgian regional parliament of Wallonia last year came within a whisker of scuppering a major accord with Canada. The Commission president now wants to prove Brussels is still fully in control of concluding trade deals, and will not surrender this core competence to almost 40 national and regional assemblies that could veto any agreement.
To seize back the initiative, Juncker is expected to explain on Wednesday how he will roll out a new model of trade deal that the regional assemblies will be unable to block.
Slicing out investment protection will give him an immediate legal advantage. Under EU law, a trade deal without investment clauses could be ratified exclusively by the European Parliament and by the member countries as represented at the Council in Brussels. That effectively removes the direct veto powers of the Walloons.
The critical question, however, is whether Juncker has sacrificed too many of the EU’s powers on protecting foreign investment.
Several analysts and lawyers accused the Commission president of seeking to pass the responsibility for protecting investors onto a body that will not exist for years.
Senior EU lawmakers briefed on Juncker’s plans said his proposal would shunt responsibility for handling investment disputes onto a multilateral investment court. This framework is being discussed by a U.N. body but trade officials estimate that it is at least a decade from being operational, if it ever comes into existence at all.
In July, the Commission presented the idea of a global investment court to representatives from 60 leading trading nations meeting at the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law in Vienna, where the U.S. and Japan flatly rejected Brussels’ plan.
In an internal briefing to EU trade diplomats, the Commission admitted that “many” countries “still need to be convinced of the multilateral investment court,” according to notes obtained by POLITICO shortly after the meeting. A working group of 60 countries to lead further discussions will only meet every four to six months.
Mykkänen, the Finnish minister, estimated that it would take “at least a decade” to get the multilateral court up and running.
Laurens Ankersmit from the nongovernmental organization Client Earth cautioned that unless the multilateral court came with a “drastic change in investment policy,” it was “nothing more than a procedural trick” to avoid the involvement of national parliaments in EU trade policy.
Maria Demertzis, deputy director of the Bruegel think tank, agreed that the multilateral court was hardly practical.
“While it’s good to see Juncker supporting multilateralism, you have to be realistic,” she said. “Any multilateral system for dispute resolution requires the big guys to be on board. And it’s quite difficult for me to imagine the U.S. under Donald Trump supporting this concept.”
The Commission declined to give details on Juncker’s plans but one Brussels official said last week: “The idea is to strike a balance between an ambitious trade policy … and the need to devise our architecture of trade deals.”
One of the other key dangers is that the Commission will set a precedent with the Australian and New Zealand deals — but then be unwilling to follow it in riskier emerging markets. While Brussels is comfortable with the level of protection afforded to investors by Canberra and Wellington, potential trade partners such as India, Indonesia and Mexico are more problematic.
“The Commission needs to be quite sensitive to not give the impression it discriminates between countries,” said Isabelle Van Damme, a trade lawyer at Van Bael & Bellis.
India is an especially prickly country for the EU to handle as New Delhi last year unilaterally scrapped some 50 bilateral investment treaties with countries all over the world, including 23 EU nations such as Germany, France, the Netherlands, Sweden and the U.K. Foreign investors saw an EU-India deal as one way to try to re-establish some of those protections, but New Delhi would be liable to ask why it was not treated in the same way as Australia and New Zealand.
A final concern over slicing investment out of EU deals is that investment protection will revert to the turbid world of bilateral investment agreements that EU member countries have with other nations. Classic examples are Germany’s investment treaties with Mexico and Pakistan.
In 2015, there were more than 1,500 of these and Brussels has long wanted to end this model because the agreements are untransparent. European Commissioner for Trade Cecilia Malmström is a strong advocate of shifting away from bilateral protection to a transparent open court system on investment disputes for EU deals, just as she secured in the accord with Ottawa.
The risk with Juncker’s new approach is that, in trade deals with a country such as Indonesia, investment protection would be left to the old-style bilateral deals — which is exactly what Malmström wanted to avoid.
Pascal Kerneis, managing director at the European Services Forum, which advocates for trade liberalization, argued that the bilateral deals still provide an important safety net.
“The industry would be very much supportive of having some investor protection in trade deals with China, Indonesia and India but we already have some protection through the bilateral investment treaties of member states, which we do have in large number,” he said.
Giulia Paravicini contributed to this article. 

