
WASHINGTON/JERUSALEM (Reuters) - President Donald Trump will announce on Wednesday that the United States recognises Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and will move its embassy there, breaking with longtime U.S. policy and potentially threatening regional stability.
Despite warnings from Western and Arab allies, Trump in a 1 p.m. (1800 GMT) White House speech will direct the State Department to begin looking for a site for an embassy in Jerusalem as part of what is expected to be a years-long process of relocating diplomatic operations from Tel Aviv.
Jerusalem’s status has been a stumbling block in decades of on-off Israeli-Palestinian peace efforts. Israel considers the city its eternal and indivisible capital and wants all embassies to be based there. But Palestinians want the capital of an independent Palestinian state in the east of the city.
Washington’s Middle East allies have all warned against the dangerous repercussions of his decision.
Pope Francis called for Jerusalem’s “status quo” to be respected, saying new tension in the Middle East would further inflame world conflicts. China and Russia expressed concern that the plans could aggravate regional hostilities.
Trump will sign a national security waiver delaying a physical move since the United States does not have an embassy structure in Jerusalem to move into. A senior administration official said it could take three to four years to build one.
But Trump’s decision, a core promise of his campaign last year, will upend decades of American policy that has seen the status of Jerusalem as part of a two-state solution for Israelis and Palestinians.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu did not comment on Wednesday on the planned move. Israeli Justice Minister Ayelet Shaked said Israelis should “wait and see” what happens with Trump’s announcement.
The Palestinians have said Trump’s move would mean the “kiss of death” to the two-state solution.
“He is declaring war in the Middle East, he is declaring war against 1.5 billion Muslims (and) hundreds of millions of Christians that are not going to accept the holy shrines to be totally under the hegemony of Israel,” Manuel Hassassian, the chief Palestinian representative to Britain, told BBC radio.
Senior Trump administration officials said Trump’s decision was not intended to tip the scale in Israel’s favor and that agreeing on the final status of Jerusalem would remain a central part of any peace deal between Israel and the Palestinians.
In defending the decision, the officials said Trump was basically reflecting a fundamental truth: that Jerusalem is the seat of the Israeli government and should be recognised as such.
“The president believes this is a recognition of reality,” said one official, who briefed reporters on Tuesday about the announcement. “We’re going forward on the basis of a truth that is undeniable. It’s just a fact.”
“NEW ADVENTURISM”
Israel captured Arab East Jerusalem in the 1967 Middle East war and later annexed it. The international community does not recognise Israeli sovereignty over the entire city, home to sites holy to the Muslim, Jewish and Christian religions.
No other country has its embassy in Jerusalem.
The political benefits for Trump of the move are unclear. The decision will thrill Republican conservatives and evangelical Christians who make up a large share of his political base.
But it will complicate Trump’s desire for a more stable Middle East and Israel-Palestinian peace and arouse tensions. Past presidents have put off such a move.
Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said the plans were a sign of U.S. “incompetence and failure”, while Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said there was “no place for new adventurism by global oppressors”, according to Mizan, the news site for the Iranian judiciary.
Iran has long supported a number of Palestinian militant groups opposed to Israel.
Islamist militant groups such as al Qaeda, Hamas and Hezbollah have in the past tried to exploit Muslim sensitivities over Jerusalem to stoke anti-Israel and anti-U.S. sentiment.
“Our Palestinian people everywhere will not allow this conspiracy to pass, and their options are open in defending their land and their sacred places,” said Hamas chief Ismail Haniyeh.
Germany and France warned its citizens in Israel and the Palestinian Territories of the risk of unrest.
‘SERIOUS IMPLICATIONS’
The decision comes as Trump’s senior adviser and son-in-law, Jared Kushner, leads a relatively quiet effort to restart long-stalled peace efforts in the region, with little in the way of tangible progress thus far.
“The president will reiterate how committed he is to peace. While we understand how some parties might react, we are still working on our plan which is not yet ready. We have time to get it right and see how people feel after this news is processed over the next period of time,” one senior official said.
As well as Netanyahu, Trump spoke to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, Jordan’s King Abdullah and Saudi King Salman to inform them of his decision.
The Jordanian king “affirmed that the decision will have serious implications that will undermine efforts to resume the peace process and will provoke Muslims and Christians alike,” said a statement from his office.
Abbas warned Trump of the “dangerous consequences” that moving the embassy would have for peace efforts and regional stability, Abbas spokesman Nabil Abu Rdainah said.
But Trump assured Abbas that he remained committed to facilitating an Israeli-Palestinian peace deal, one U.S. official said.
United Nations spokesman Stephane Dujarric told reporters it regarded Jerusalem as a “final-status issue that must be resolved through direct negotiations between the two parties based on relevant Security Council resolutions.”
Trump has weighted U.S. policy towards Israel since taking office in January, considering the Jewish state a strong ally in a volatile part of the world.
But deliberations over the status of Jerusalem were tense. Vice President Mike Pence and David Friedman, U.S. Ambassador to Israel, pushed hard for both recognition and embassy relocation, while Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis opposed the move from Tel Aviv, according to other U.S. officials who spoke on condition of anonymity.
An impatient Trump finally weighed in, telling aides last week he wanted to keep his campaign promise.


JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Palestinians seethed with anger and a sense of betrayal over U.S. President Donald Trump’s decision to recognise the disputed city of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.
Many heard the death knell for the long-moribund U.S.-sponsored talks aimed at ending the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and establishing a Palestinian state alongside Israel. They also said more violence could erupt.
“Trump wants to help Israel take over the entire city. Some people may do nothing, but others are ready to fight for Jerusalem,” said Hamad Abu Sbeih, 28, an unemployed resident of the walled Old City.
“This decision will ignite a fire in the region. Pressure leads to explosions,” he said.
Jerusalem -- specifically its eastern Old City, home to important shrines of Judaism, Christianity and Islam -- is at the heart of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Israeli captured Arab East Jerusalem from Jordan in the 1967 Middle East War then later annexed it in a move not recognised internationally. Palestinians want it to be the capital of a future independent state and resolution of its status is fundamental to any peace-making.
Trump is due to announce later on Wednesday that the United States recognises the city as Israel’s capital and will move its embassy there from Tel Aviv, breaking with longtime policy..
“This is insane. You are speaking about something fateful. Jerusalem is the capital of the state of Palestine and neither the world nor our people will accept it,” said Samir Al-Asmar, 58, a merchant from the Old City who was a child when it fell to Israel.
“It will not change what Jerusalem is. Jerusalem will remain Arab. Such a decision will sabotage things and people will not accept it.”
Palestinian newspapers also decried the move.
“Trump Defies the World,” thundered Al-Ayyam. Another, Al-Hayat, roared “Jerusalem is the Symbol of Palestinian Endurance” in a red-letter headline over an image of the city’s mosque compound flanked by Palestinian flags.
Palestinian leaders have also warned the move could have dangerous consquences. Although winter rains dampened protests called for East Jerusalem, the occupied West Bank and Hamas-dominated Gaza Strip, few doubted fresh bloodshed now loomed.
Israeli security forces braced for possible unrest but police said the situation in Jerusalem was calm for now.
That could quickly change, given the religious passions that swirl around the Old City, where Al Aqsa Mosque, Islam’s third-holiest shrine, abuts the Western Wall prayer plaza, a vestige of two ancient Jewish temples.
Palestinians mounted two uprisings, or intifadas, against Israeli occupation from 1987 to 1993 then from 2000 to 2005, the latter ignited by a visit by then Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to the shrine area, known to Jews as Temple Mount.
Violent confrontations also took place in July this year after Israel installed metal detectors at the entrance to the
Al Aqsa compound. Four Palestinians and three Israelis were killed, as well as two policemen shot dead by gunmen.
In the Palestinian coastal enclave of Gaza, demonstrators  chanted “Death to America”, “Death to Israel” and “Down with Trump”. They also burned posters depicting the U.S., British and Israeli flags.
Youssef Mohammad, a 70-year-old resident of a refugee camp, said Trump’s move would be a test for Arab leadership at a time of regional chaos and shifting alliances.
“Let him do it. Let’s see what Arab rulers and kings will do. They will do nothing because they are cowards,” the father of eight said.
The Jerusalem uproar could affect Egyptian-brokered efforts to bring Gaza, which has been under Islamist Hamas control for a decade, back under the authority of U.S.-backed Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, who favours negotiation with Israel.
Hamas spokesman Hazem Qassem said Trump’s planned moved showed the United States was biased.
“The United States was never a neutral mediator in any cause of our people. It has always stood with the occupation (Israel),” he said.
He said Abbas’ administration should “rid itself of the illusion that rights can be achieved through an American-backed deal”.


PARIS (Reuters) - France accused the Syrian government on Wednesday of obstructing U.N.-led peace talks with its refusal to return to Geneva and called on Russia not to shirk its responsibilities to get Damascus to the negotiating table.
Talks on ending the war in Syria resumed on Wednesday, but with no sign of President Bashar al-Assad’s negotiators returning to the table in Geneva.
The process began last week. But after a few days with little apparent progress, the U.N. mediator Staffan de Mistura said the Syrian government delegation led by Bashar al-Ja‘afari was returning to Damascus to “consult and refresh”.
“France condemns the absence of the delegation of the regime and its refusal to engage in good faith in the negotiations to achieve a political solution,” French foreign ministry deputy spokesman Alexandre Georgini told reporters.
“This refusal highlights the obstruction strategy of the political process carried out by the Damascus regime, which is responsible for the absence of progress in the negotiations,” he added.
He said Russia, as one of President Bashar al-Assad’s main backers, needed to assume its responsibilities so that the Syrian government finally entered the negotiations.
De Mistura had said he expected talks to resume “around Tuesday” Dec. 5, but Ja‘afari said before leaving that he might not come back because the opposition had stated that Assad could not play a role in a future interim government.
During last week’s sessions, de Mistura shuttled between the representatives of the two warring sides, who did not meet face-to-face. He had planned to continue the round until Dec. 15.


BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Former Catalan leader Carles Puigdemont on Wednesday said he and four of his ex-cabinet members plan to remain in Belgium “for the moment” after Spain dropped an international warrant for his arrest on Tuesday.
Asked whether he planned to travel in Europe, he said that he didn’t know whether it would be possible.
“For the moment we will stay here (in Belgium),” Puigdemont said, speaking French during a press conference in Brussels.
“Our desire when we came here was to return home as soon as possible ... but will it be possible? ... We have to know the answer before going home.”
Puigdemont and his ex-cabinet members travelled to Belgium after his government was fired following a unilateral declaration of independence, considered illegal by Spain’s courts, was passed through the regional parliament.
All five still face warrants for their arrests in Spain for sedition, rebellion and misappropriation of funds in relation to the regional government’s push for secession from Spain.


ATHENS (Reuters) - Greek police fired teargas on Wednesday at youths marching in Athens to mark the ninth anniversary of the killing of a teenager by police, an incident that sparked Greece’s worst riots for decades.
A few hundred students, among them dozens of black-clad youths, marched through central Athens chanting “Resist!”,  waving red and black flags in a tribute to 15-year old Alexandros Grigoropoulos who was shot dead in 2008.
Greece has a history of street violence. Before the march, young people wearing hoods were seen smashing paving stones to use as projectiles and traffic street poles to break window displays.
Some of the protesters set garbage containers on fire and hurled stones at police outside parliament during the march. Police fired teargas to disperse them and formed protective cordons outside parliament and hotels in central Athens.
More than 2,000 police were deployed for the demonstrations, a day before a visit by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a police official said.
Another march is scheduled in the evening.
On the night of December 6, 2008, hours after Grigoropoulos was shot dead, thousands took to the streets of Athens, torching cars and smashing shop windows.
The riots, further fuelled by anger over unemployment and economic hardship in the prelude to Greece’s debt crisis, lasted for weeks,  turning Athens into a battle zone.


BRUSSELS (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson told a NATO foreign ministers’ meeting in Brussels on Wednesday that the Western allies agreed there was “no normalisation” of ties with Russia.
“We had a lot of discussion at this NATO meeting ... over what is the proper engagement with Russia and I think there is broad consensus among all the NATO members that there is no normalisation of dialogue with Russia today,” he told reporters.
However, highlighting how the West depends on Russia in efforts to address the multiple conflicts in the Middle East, Tillerson said Washington saw it as Moscow’s task to make sure Russia’s ally Damascus takes part in U.N.-led peace talks on Syria.


KIEV (Reuters) - Ukraine’s general prosecutor denied on Wednesday that his office was impeding the work of a new anti-corruption body as he sought to deflect charges by Kiev’s Western backers that Ukraine was backsliding on promises to fight graft.
The United States, the European Union and Canada have thrown financial and diplomatic support behind the leadership that took power in Kiev after the 2014 Maidan protests ousted the Kremlin-backed President Viktor Yanukovich.
But perceived backsliding on reform commitments has delayed billions of dollars in loans from the International Monetary Fund and tested the patience of Western countries even as Kiev pushes for closer EU integration and possible membership.
The United States and EU have homed in on concerns that vested interests are trying to undermine the independence of the anti-corruption bureau known as NABU, which was set up after the Maidan protests and has been at loggerheads with other law enforcement bodies.
One recent episode had the General Prosecutor’s office unmasking an alleged sting operation being carried out by NABU against suspected corruption in the migration service. It said NABU had overstepped the law.
General Prosecutor Yuriy Lutsenko told parliament he wanted to address issues around “the relationship between various law enforcement agencies that causes public outrage and rather harsh statements by our strategic international partners - the US and the EU.”
He denied his office was at war with NABU, saying NABU officers must face the legal consequences if they commit offences.
“Our normal cooperation does not mean that the General Prosecutor’s office can ignore signs that laws have been broken,” Lutsenko said.
Earlier on Wednesday, NABU tweeted thanks to international backers for their support, posting statements released this week by the U.S. Department of State and the EU.
The U.S. State Department said on Monday that recent events in Ukraine, including the disruption of a high-level corruption investigation and the arrest of NABU officials raised concerns about its commitment to fighting corruption.
“These actions ... undermine public trust and risk eroding international support for Ukraine,” a spokeswoman said.
The EU on Tuesday night urged that the work of anti-corruption institutions “must not be undermined but reinforced.”
Britain’s Ambassador to Kiev, Judith Gough, on Wednesday cited a survey showing corruption within state bodies was the top issue for Ukrainian voters.
“Surely tackling corruption is a vote winner, rather than undermining institutions active in the fight against corruption?” she tweeted.


LONDON (Reuters) - Russia is likely to continue deliveries of grain crops to Syria as part of humanitarian aid supplies, irrespective of the military situation, Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich said on Wednesday.
Russia, one of the world’s largest wheat exporters, supports Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in the long-running civil war in Syria and has previously helped his government with wheat aid.
“We truly believe that the humanitarian aid is needed in Syria now, not conditional on the military situation in Syria,” Dvorkovich told reporters on a visit to London.
Dvorkovich, who is in charge of the agriculture sector in the Russian government, said he could not disclose the timing or conditions of future grain supplies from Russia, which has surplus supplies after a record grain harvest this year.
Syria was once self-sufficient in wheat production but continued fighting in the main grain-producing areas in its northeastern regions and poor rainfall reduced the country’s harvest last year.
Russia is actively looking to expand its export markets for grain after its record harvest and as prospects for next year’s crop also look good, although the government’s preliminary estimates vary.
Dvorkovich said on Wednesday that Russia’s 2018 grain crop could rise by between 1 and 2 percent year-on-year, but Pyotr Chekmarev, head of the agriculture ministry’s crop growing department, said next year’s crop may lag this year’s record.


PRAGUE (Reuters) - Czech ANO party leader Andrej Babis was appointed as the country’s new prime minister on Wednesday following his party’s landslide election win in October.
Billionaire businessman Babis, 63, set up ANO in 2011 as a protest movement when mainstream parties were embroiled in several corruption scandals.
Running on pledges to fight migration and make the state more efficient, ANO won 29.6 percent of the vote in the October election, nearly three times the support secured by the centre-right Civic Democrats, who came in second place.
President Milos Zeman appointed Babis as prime minister in a televised ceremony on Wednesday.
Babis has not yet secured parliamentary backing for his one-party minority cabinet, which is due to take office on Dec. 13, and faces an uncertain outcome in a confidence vote which is due by mid-January as required under the Czech constitution.
He has pledged to keep the budget in shape but also boost infrastructure investments and public sector wages, and play a more active role in the European Union, especially in securing the EU’s external border.
ANO holds 78 seats in the 200-seat lower house, but has so far failed to win over support from any of the other eight factions for the confidence vote.
Should he lose the vote, Babis will stay in power until a new arrangement is found, but given ANO’s strength, any other arrangement would also have to be led by the party.
Analysts say a second attempt to form a cabinet, with or without Babis, may have higher chances of success because many parties have suffered losses in the October vote and are keen to avoid calling an early election that a prolonged crisis may eventually lead to.


LONDON (Reuters) - British Prime Minister Theresa May said she intended to speak to U.S. President Donald Trump about the status of Jerusalem, which she said should be determined as part of a settlement between Israel and the Palestinians.
May said the ancient city should ultimately be shared between Israel and a future Palestinian state. She said there should be a sovereign and viable Palestinian state as part of a two-state solution.
“I‘m intending to speak to President Trump about this matter,” May said. “The status of Jerusalem should be determined in a negotiated settlement between the Israelis and the Palestinians.”
“Jerusalem should ultimately form a shared capital between the Israeli and Palestinian states,” May said.


CARACAS (Reuters) - The murder and kidnap rates rival a war zone. Streets often shake to violent political protests. The poor scavenge garbage for food, while the rich go around with armoured cars and bodyguards.
Only a fool would go for a quiet stroll in Caracas, right?
Not so. In the last few years, groups have sprung up offering walking tours of the chaotic Venezuelan capital’s architecture, historic sites and famous hillside “barrios.”
Nearly a dozen organizations now run trips of several hours at a time for groups as small as four or as large as 150.
While volunteers offer some tours for free, others are small businesses charging between 20,000 and 200,000 bolivars per person - 20 cents to $2 at the black-market exchange rate.
“I want to see the positive side of the city,” said lawyer Francis Lopez, 50, who joined dozens of other people on a recent Saturday walking tour around the poor west Caracas neighbourhood of Catia, avidly snapping pictures of the colourful marketplace.
“In the old days, I used to go all over the city, but people have stopped going out ... for fear of being assaulted. It’s not just that they rob you, they can shoot you too.”
With more than three killings per hour, Venezuela last year was the world’s second most murderous nation after El Salvador, a local crime monitoring group said. The homicide rate in Caracas alone was a staggering 140 per 100,000 people, according to the group, the Venezuelan Observatory of Violence.
Authorities say nongovernmental groups inflate figures to create paranoia and tarnish the government, but even so the most recent official national murder rate - 58 per 100,000 inhabitants for 2015 - was still among the world’s highest.
Violence peaks in the teeming shantytowns that cling to Caracas’ steep slopes, and it is precisely there that some of the tours head, using locals as guides and for protection. Tourists who would never go alone into “barrios” like Catia or Petare feel safe moving in large numbers.
‘BREAKING MYTHS’
The groups walk freely, chat with residents, buy artisan products and sometimes even enjoy traditional music. Most are Venezuelans, though the occasional foreigner joins.
“It enables us to break the myth that the ‘barrio’ is different from the city, full of bad things: violence, insecurity and poverty,” said Lorena de Marchena, 27, who helps organise walking tours in the “barrio” of El Calvario near the colonial hilltop suburb of El Hatillo.
“When you enter El Calvario, you connect at different levels because you see that people are the same as anyone in the city.”
Locals often tag along, most friendly and laughing, but some suspicious as to the outsiders’ intentions.
“Here we are revolutionaries, ‘Chavistas’!” one old lady chided a recent group, mistaking middle-class visitors to Catia for opposition supporters opposed to the ruling movement called “Chavismo” for former leader Hugo Chavez.
Though a relatively new phenomenon in Caracas, such “barrio” tours have long been common in other dangerous part of the world such as Rio de Janeiro or some African capitals.
Political tourism has also been going on for years in places like Belfast, where visitors see the “peace walls” dividing Roman Catholic and Protestant communities, or Medellin where they trace the steps of ex-Colombian drug boss Pablo Escobar.
During Chavez’s 1999-2013 rule of Venezuela, leftist sympathizers would often travel here on “solidarity” tours from Europe or other Latin American countries.
However, much of the current tours’ emphasis is on celebrating the city’s underappreciated cultural heritage, particularly in this year’s 450th anniversary of its founding.
Especially popular is the colonial centre, where visitors can see a statue to 18th-century liberation hero Simon Bolivar, as well as his house and the pantheon housing his remains.
Some tours also go to the main state university, which is a UNESCO heritage site; the cobbled streets of El Hatillo; the once-upmarket boulevard of Sabana Grande; and elegant Plaza Altamira, known both for its signature obelisk and as a focus of anti-government protests.
Various people died close to Plaza Altamira during this year’s anti-government protests, in which 125 people were killed in all.
While some are rediscovering a city they have for years feared to walk around in, others are taking a last, wistful look before joining Venezuela’s ever-growing wave of emigration.
“Caracas is such a beautiful city,” enthused oil company worker Zaylin Daboin, 29, admiring a renovated 1940s theatre in Catia that she had never seen before. “We lost our initiative and curiosity because of the insecurity.”


GENEVA (Reuters) - Nearly 500 sick and wounded patients still await medical evacuation from the Damascus suburb of eastern Ghouta, which the Syrian government has not granted, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Wednesday.
Malnutrition rates in the besieged rebel-held area, about a 45-minute drive from the capital, are now “the highest seen so far in Syria since the beginning of the crisis”, WHO representative in Syria Elizabeth Hoff said.
A week ago the United Nations called on world powers to help arrange the evacuations saying eastern Ghouta had become a “humanitarian emergency”. Nine patients have died in recent weeks while waiting, UN envoy Jan Egeland said at the time.
”The Syrian government has not approved the medical evacuation yet,“ Hoff told Reuters from Damascus. ”There has been no movement.The list of priority patients was provided from the opposition-controlled area about four weeks ago, she said.
Almost 200 children are among those on the growing but stalled U.N. list, who mainly suffer from severe chronic diseases including kidney failure, cancer and cardiovascular diseases, Hoff said.
Some war-wounded are among priority evacuees, she said. More than 400 relatives are also seeking to accompany the 480 patients for treatment in Damascus hospitals.
Jets believed to be Syrian and Russian struck heavily crowded residential areas in eastern Ghouta, killing at least 27 people and injuring dozens in the third week of a stepped-up assault, residents, aid workers and a war monitor said on Monday.
A nutritional survey done in eastern Ghouta during the first half of November collected data on more than 300 children between the age of six months and five years, Hoff said.
“The survey data results indicate a deterioration in the nutrition situation among children under the age of five years old,” the U.N. Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and WHO said in the findings.
Some 11.9 percent of the children examined were found to have global acute malnutrition, including 1.6 percent suffering from severe acute malnutrition, which can be life-threatening.
Aid agencies are providing life-saving curative and preventive nutrition services in eastern Ghouta, through five health facilities and seven mobile clinics in Douma, Harasta and Kafr Batna, it said.
“We delivered 8 tonnes of medical supplies to eastern Ghouta last month, but it is not sufficient,” Hoff said.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Several people were injured in a train crash on Tuesday near the German city of Duesseldorf, fire department and police spokesmen said.
Rail operator Deutsche Bahn said a passenger train of the regional provider National Express drove into a freight train from DB Cargo about 1830 GMT in the town of Meerbusch.
The Meerbusch fire department said up to 150 passengers were on the train and that 5 people suffered injuries.
A police spokesman earlier had told German broadcaster ARD that about 50 people had been injured in the train crash.
A German government spokesman said Chancellor Angela Merkel had been briefed on the situation.


ADEN/DUBAI (Reuters) - A Saudi-led coalition intensified air strikes on Yemen early on Wednesday as the armed Houthi movement tightened its grip on the capital after it killed former president Ali Abdullah Saleh, who switched sides in the civil war.
Saudi Arabia and its allies launched dozens of raids on Houthi positions in Sanaa and nearby provinces, a day after Saleh’s son vowed to take revenge.
Yemen’s pro-Houthi Al Masirah television station said the coalition bombed Saleh’s residence and other houses of his family members which are now controlled by the Houthis. Air strikes also hit northern provinces including Taiz, Haja, Midi and Saada, it added.
There was no immediate word on casualties.
The intervention by Ahmed Ali, a former leader of the elite Republican Guard once seen as a successor to his father, provided the anti-Houthi movement with a potential figurehead after a week of fighting that saw the Houthis rout Saleh’s supporters.
But a day after Saleh supporters announced the deaths of his nephew Tareq, another top commander, and the head of his party Aref Zouka, many Sanaa residents hunkered indoors out of fear of a Houthi crackdown on the ex-president’s many admirers.
Yemen’s war, pitting the Iran-allied Houthis who control Sanaa against a Saudi-led military alliance backing a government based in the south, has unleashed what the United Nations calls the world’s worst humanitarian crisis.
The proxy war between regional arch-rivals Saudi Arabia -- armed and furnished intelligence by the West -- and Iran has already killed more than 10,000 people, with more than two million displaced.
Political sources said the Houthis had arrested dozens of Saleh’s allies and army officers affiliated with his party in and around the city. Several had been killed in the raids.
“There’s a scary calm in the city,” said Ali, a 47-year old businessman who declined to use his full name.
“People are reporting that there are many arrests and they are trying to shoot military men and (Saleh party) members.”
Saleh had helped the Houthis win control of much of the north, including Sanaa, and his decision to switch allegiance and abandon the Houthis in the past week was the most dramatic change in three years of stalemated war.
But the Houthis swiftly crushed the pro-Saleh uprising in the capital and killed him. Top Houthi officials called his attempted putsch high treason backed by their Saudi enemies.
Several dozen women gathered in a main square holding Saleh’s portrait and demanding his burial, eyewitnesses said,  but were forcibly dispersed by Houthi supporters and ran in terror from the site.
The Houthi-controlled interior ministry distributed a video of dozens of seated barefoot men it said were pro-Saleh fighters detained in one of its party headquarters.
Media rights group Reporters Without Borders appealed for the release of 41 journalists it said have been held “hostage” by the group since it overran the headquarters of the Saleh-owned al-Yemen al-Youm TV station on Saturday.
In a sign of support and defiance, tens of thousands of Houthi supporters staged a rally in Sanaa on Tuesday to celebrate the death of Saleh. They chanted slogans against Saudi Arabia and its allies.
Nearly a million have been hit by a cholera outbreak and famine threatens much of the country.
The United Nations says millions of people may die in one of the worst famines of modern times, caused by warring parties blocking food supplies.
The UN Secretary-General Special Envoy for Yemen, Ismail Ould Cheikh Ahmed, called on all parties to show restraint in a briefing to the Security Council.
“Increased hostilities will further threaten civilian lives and exacerbate their suffering,” he said.
U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said on Tuesday that the killing of Saleh would, in the short term, likely worsen an already dire humanitarian situation in the country.
Mattis, speaking with reporters on a military aircraft en route to Washington that his death could either push the conflict towards U.N. peace negotiations or make it an “even more vicious war.”
The commander of Iran’s Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC), Major General Mohammad Ali Jafari, said Yemen’s enemies had been behind Saleh’s armed uprising and praised what he called the Houthis’ swift quashing of the “coup against the holy warriors”, the semi-official Fars news agency reported.
The death of Saleh, who once compared ruling Yemen to dancing on the heads of snakes, deepens the complexity of the multi-sided war.
Much is likely to depend on the future allegiances of his loyalists, who had previously helped the armed Houthi group, which hails from the Zaidi branch of Shi‘ite Islam that ruled a thousand-year kingdom in northern Yemen until 1962.


SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australia faces a series of by-elections that could topple the government, which trails in opinion polls and has lost its slender majority, in a bizarre citizenship crisis that has engulfed both sides of parliament.
Senator Katy Gallagher and lower-house member David Feeney, both from the opposition Labor party, were referred to the High Court on Wednesday to determine whether they hold British, as well as Australian, citizenship.
Neither is a member of the government, but the outcome of Gallagher’s case in particular, which rests on whether she made “reasonable steps” to renounce her British citizenship, will set a precedent that could later unseat government members.
Dual citizens are ineligible for elected office under Australia’s 116-year-old constitution.
In a nation in which half the population were either born overseas or have parents who were, the rule has disqualified nine lawmakers, and left Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull’s Liberal-National coalition clinging to a minority government.
Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce briefly lost his seat  when it was found he also held New Zealand citizenship. But he won it back in a by-election last weekend.
A by-election in former tennis star John Alexander’s theoretically safe Sydney seat on Dec. 19 will determine whether the government regains its one-seat majority.
However, a victory may not be lasting, since the citizenship status of another four lower-house government lawmakers was called into question after a deadline for politicians to disclose the birthplace of their parents and grandparents passed on Tuesday.
“There are many inadequate disclosures that ask more questions than provide answers,” Labor leader Bill Shorten told reporters in Canberra.
‘TEST CASE’
The government, behind in opinion polls and keen to avoid any more by-elections, voted down a Labor proposal to refer those lawmakers’ cases to the High Court and said it would not revisit the matter until after the Gallagher case was heard.
Gallagher filed paperwork, and paid processing fees, to renounce her British citizenship more than two months before being elected in July 2016.
But she did not get confirmation from the British Home Office that her renunciation had been processed until after she was voted in, her disclosure documents show.
Several other lawmakers are in a similar bind.
“It will be a test case,” constitutional law expert George Williams, dean of law at the University of New South Wales, told Reuters by telephone.
“But it leaves open the possibility that now this will go on for quite some time. There’s large question marks over quite a number of people.”
Turnbull’s government would have to rely on the support of a handful of independent MPs to retain power if Alexander loses his Dec. 19 by-election, or if the High Court ousts another coalition lawmaker from the lower house.
“It’s uncertain territory, we still don’t know for sure who is eligible and who’s not,” University of Queensland politics lecturer Chris Salisbury told Reuters.
(This version of the story has been refiled to add dropped word “loses” in paragraph 17)


GENEVA/BEIRUT (Reuters) - Talks on ending the six-year war in Syria resumed on Wednesday with no sign of President Bashar al-Assad’s delegation returning to the negotiations in Geneva after they walked out last week.
A source close to the Syrian government’s negotiating team told Reuters the delegation was still in Damascus on Wednesday.
The talks began last week and after a few days with little apparent progress, the U.N. mediator Staffan de Mistura said that the government delegation, led by Bashar al-Ja‘afari, was returning to Damascus to “consult and refresh”.
De Mistura expected talks to resume “around Tuesday”, but Ja‘afari left Geneva on Saturday and said he might not come back because the opposition had stated that Assad could not play a role in a future interim government.
Syrian officials have not yet said if Ja‘afari will return to the talks, but opposition spokesman Yahya al-Aridi said on Monday that a government boycott would be “an embarrassment to Russia”, which is keen to see a negotiated end to the war.
The opposition negotiating team arrived at the U.N. offices in Geneva on Wednesday morning to resume talks with de Mistura, who declined to comment late on Tuesday when asked about the absence of Ja‘afari’s negotiators.
During last week’s sessions, de Mistura shuttled between the representatives of the two warring sides, who did not meet face-to-face. He had planned to continue the round until Dec. 15.


BEIJING (Reuters) - China’s cabinet on Wednesday released broad new definitions of conduct punishable under its three-year-old counter-espionage law, as China seeks to bolster its defence against threats to national security and social stability.
Over five years, President Xi Jinping has ushered in a flurry of new state security legislation to defend China from perceived threats both inside and outside its borders.
Rights groups and foreign governments have criticised the national security laws as being written in such a way to allow the party state to target activists or dissidents who challenge the Communist Party or call for political reform.
In new regulations on implementing a counter-espionage law first adopted in 2014, China’s state council expanded on the legislation to clarify, for example, that collusion involves any form of contact or assistance with groups that harm China’s national security.
The rules include behaviour, such as using religion or cults to harm national security, that go beyond standard definitions of espionage, namely the practise of obtaining information about a foreign government by spying.
The state council rules say that “hostile groups” include any groups that challenge the power of the Chinese Communist Party or the “socialist system”.
Foreign individuals or groups who fabricate or distort facts and issue information that harms China’s national security can be punished, as can people who do not listen to advice and meet individuals that harm national security, according to the new regulations.
The government can block foreign individuals suspected of endangering national security from entering China, and Chinese nationals suspected of “betraying the motherland” can be detained, they say.
Foreign individuals who are expected of spying can be prevented from leaving China for a “fixed” period, while those expelled for the same charges can be banned for ten years.
The rules come into effect immediately.


BRUSSELS (Reuters) - U.S. recognition that Jerusalem is Israel’s capital would be important for Israel even if it delayed moving its embassy there, Israel’s minister for public security, Gilad Erdan said on Wednesday.
“This declaration is very important for us, but we only see it as a reflection of what is happening on the ground in reality, no game-changer,” Erdan told reporters in Brussels.   “In reality, nothing is going to change.”
“We don’t think this is an excuse for a new wave of violence and we won’t be afraid of this,” he continued.
U.S. President Donald Trump is expected on Wednesday to recognise Jerusalem as Israel’s capital and set in motion the relocation of the U.S. embassy to the ancient city.


BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Britain’s Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson called on the United States on Wednesday to present its proposal to revive the Middle East peace process “as a matter of priority.”
Before a meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson at NATO, Johnson said the U.S. decision to move its embassy to Israel “makes it more important than ever that the long-awaited American proposals on the Middle East peace process are now brought forward,” he said.
“That should happen as a matter of priority,” he said.


ATHENS/ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan will make a historic visit to Greece this week, a sign that relations between the two countries are improving, although a long list of grievances remains on both sides.
Erdogan visited Greece as prime minister, in 2004 and 2010, but he will be the first Turkish head of state to visit Athens since Celal Bayar in 1952. He is also scheduled to visit Thrace in northern Greece, home to a large Muslim community.
Greece and Turkey came to the brink of war as recently as 1996, but tensions have eased since. The two now cooperate in a deal brokered between Ankara and the European Union on stemming mass migration to Europe through Greece.
Turkey’s ties with some other European Union governments are strained, however, so Erdogan’s visit on Dec. 7-8 will be important for Athens. It will help to ensure that communication continues over the migrant crisis and other bilateral issues.
“Issues that concern the two countries will be on the agenda of talks - tensions in the Aegean Sea, the refugee crisis, economic relations with a focus on energy, trade and transport,” Greek government spokesman Dimitris Tzanakopoulos said.
“What we anticipate is a substantive upgrade of our relationship with Turkey ... We expect very constructive talks.”
In Turkey, a government official said: “This will be a visit from which we expect solution to problems. I think Erdogan and (Greek Prime Minister Alexis) Tsipras will show a common will for the solution of some of the problems.”
At odds over everything from uninhabited islets, airspace and the boundaries of Greece’s continental shelf to the ethnically divided island of Cyprus, differences between the two countries have outlived the Cold War.
None of those issues has ever been resolved. The fallout of a failed coup attempt against Erdogan in 2016 has also tested their relations; while the coup unfolded, eight Turkish commandos flew into Greece to evade capture.
The Turkish government regards them as coup plotters and wants Athens to hand them over. Greek courts have blocked their extradition.
The senior Turkish official said terror groups were crossing into Greece from Turkey.
“The prevention of this is critical for Turkey,” the official said. “Erdogan will ask for the extradition of these people, starting with the ones that fled there with a helicopter following the coup attempt.”
Greek police last week arrested nine suspected members of DHKP-C, a militant Marxist group which has claimed responsibility for attacks in Turkey since 1990, including suicide bombings.
Thursday’s visit takes place months after Cyprus peace talks broke down in July. The talks are led by the two Cypriot communities, but Greece and Turkey need to agree to future security arrangements for the island.
“When the talks broke up there was a lot of ill feeling, so I was a bit surprised to hear about this visit. Positively surprised,” said James Ker-Lindsay, professor of politics and policy at St. Mary’s University in London.
Cyprus remains divided between Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities living on either side of a U.N.-monitored ceasefire line. It’s unclear whether peace talks between them will resume. Greek Cypriot presidential elections are scheduled for January 2018, and nothing will happen before then.
“I think that in terms of the symbolism of Erdogan in Athens, its a good sign. Whether we are going to get anything out of it, I‘m not sure. I don’t want to overplay it too much,” Ker-Lindsay told Reuters.


ANKARA (Reuters) - The Turkish government’s spokesman on Wednesday said that the United States’ decision to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel will plunge the region and the world into “a fire with no end in sight”.
“Declaring Jerusalem a capital is disregarding history and the truths in the region, it is a big injustice/cruelty, shortsightedness, foolishness/madness, it is plunging the region and the world into a fire with no end in sight,” Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdag said on Twitter.
“I call on everyone to act logically, respect the agreements they signed and behave reasonably, avoid risking world peace for domestic politics or other reasons,” he said.
U.S. officials have said President Donald Trump is likely to give a speech on Wednesday unilaterally recognising Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, a step that would break with decades of U.S. policy.


BEIJING (Reuters) - A state-run newspaper in northeastern China’s Jilin city, near the border with North Korea, on Wednesday published a page of “common sense” advice on how readers can protect themselves from a nuclear weapons attack or explosion.
China has voiced grave concern over North Korea’s nuclear and missiles programme, as well as calling on the United States and South Korea to stop provoking Pyongyang.
U.S. bombers will fly over the Korean peninsula on Wednesday as part of a large-scale joint military drills with South Korea. The North has warned the drills would push the Korean Peninsula to the “brink of war”.
The full page article in the Jilin Daily, which does not mention possible attacks by North Korea or any other country, explains how nuclear weapons differ from traditional arms and instructs people how to protect themselves in the event of an attack.
Nuclear weapons have five means of causing destruction: light radiation, blast waves, early-stage nuclear radiation, nuclear electro-magnetic pulses and radioactive pollution, the article explained. It said the first four kill instantly.
People who find themselves outside during a nuclear attack should try to lie in a ditch, cover exposed skin in light coloured clothing or dive into a river or lake to try and minimise the possibility of instantaneous death, it said.
Cartoon illustrations of ways to dispel radioactive contamination were also provided, such as using water to wash off shoes and using cotton buds to clean ears, as well as a picture of a vomiting child to show how medical help can be sought to speed the expulsion of radiation through stomach pumping and induced urination.
The influential state-backed Global Times in a commentary on Wednesday described the article as a public service announcement  due to the situation on the Korean peninsula.
“If war breaks out, it is not possible to rule out the Korean peninsula producing nuclear contaminants, and countermeasures must be seriously researched and spoken openly about to let the common folk know. But at the same time, there is absolutely no reason to be alarmed,” the Global Times said.
North Korea last week tested what it called its most advanced intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) that could reach all of the United States.
U.S. President Donald Trump has warned he would destroy the North Korean regime if it threatened the United States with nuclear weapons.
China has rejected military intervention and called for an end to the war of words between Washington and Pyongyang.


BEIRUT (Reuters) - The Syrian government on Wednesday condemned U.S. President Donald Trump’s decision to recognise the city of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and to move the U.S. Embassy there from Tel Aviv, Syrian state news agency SANA said.
“(The move) is the culmination of the crime of usurping Palestine and displacing the Palestinian people,” SANA said, quoting a Foreign Ministry source.


BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Commission will propose on Wednesday deeper euro zone integration that would help unite the broader European Union rather than just the single currency area.
The Commission, the EU’s executive arm, will present a package of ideas aimed at making the 19 countries sharing the euro more resilient to potential future crises and united around the euro currency as Britain leaves the bloc in 2019.
But such plans have sparked concern in eight non-euro countries that deeper integration will make them second-class members of the EU, with less say and less in funds in the future.
To alleviate such fears, the Commission proposals will follow the principles of building EU unity and increasing the democratic accountability of euro zone institutions. But some of the ideas clash with what some euro zone leaders want.
French President Emmanuel Macron has called for creating a large euro zone budget of several hundred billion euros, a euro zone finance minister and a euro zone parliament.
The EU executive, however, is likely to propose creating only a dedicated line for the euro zone within the wider EU budget that, in total, is worth around 100 billion euros.
Instead of a euro zone finance minister, there should be a pan-European Minister of Economy and Finance, the Commission is likely to say. The European Parliament should be left undivided.
Other euro zone integration ideas, floated by Germany, include transforming the euro zone bailout fund into a European Monetary Fund and setting up a sovereign insolvency mechanism to raise market pressure on government fiscal policy.
But the Commission will call for the bailout fund, which is now owned and run by euro zone governments, to become an EU institution that would be subject to European Parliament’s control. This will not fly with governments, officials said.
The Commission is also likely to say that the European finance minister, a post that would only be set up in 2025, should be in charge of overseeing structural reform efforts and coordinating economic and fiscal policy in the euro area.
Presiding over any kind of euro zone bailout fund, the EU finance minister should also be a senior member of the Commission and responsible before the European Parliament, the Commission is likely to propose.
Under the current arrangement, the chair of the euro zone finance ministers, the closest thing the bloc now has to a single finance minister, often testifies before the parliament’s economic committee, but it has no power over him or her.
There is no appetite among euro zone finance ministers now to allow the Commission, which is only an observer at their monthly meetings, to chair the talks.
The Commission is also likely to call for a swift completion of the EU’s banking union by setting up a Europe-wide bank deposit insurance scheme, something that Germany insists can only happen after the bad loans on banks’ books fall sharply.
The ideas will be discussed by all of the European Union’s leaders except Britain at a special euro summit on Dec. 15.


BEIRUT (Reuters) - Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri rescinded his resignation on Tuesday, drawing a line under a month-long crisis triggered when he announced from Riyadh that he was stepping down and remained outside Lebanon for weeks.
His coalition government, which includes the Iran-backed Hezbollah group, reaffirmed a state policy of staying out of conflicts in Arab states. Hariri’s Saudi allies accuse Hezbollah of waging war across the Middle East as agents of Iran.
Hariri’s shock resignation had thrust Lebanon to the forefront of the regional quarrel between Saudi Arabia and Iran, which has been played out on battlefields in Syria, Iraq and Yemen.
Lebanese officials said Saudi Arabia had coerced Hariri, a long-time Saudi ally, into resigning and put him under effective house arrest until an intervention by France led to his return to Lebanon. Saudi Arabia and Hariri have denied this.
President Michel Aoun, a Hezbollah ally, refused to accept his resignation while he remained abroad.
Saudi concern over the influence wielded by Shi‘ite Muslim Iran and Hezbollah in other Arab states had been widely seen as the root cause of the crisis, which raised fears for Lebanon’s economic and political stability.
The Lebanese policy of “dissociation” was declared in 2012 to keep the deeply divided state out of regional conflicts such as the civil war in neighbouring Syria. Despite the policy, Hezbollah is heavily involved there, sending thousands of fighters to help President Bashar al-Assad.
In its first meeting since Hariri’s resignation, the cabinet on Tuesday reaffirmed its commitment to the policy.
“All (the government‘s) political components decide to dissociate themselves from all conflicts, disputes, wars or the internal affairs of brother Arab countries, in order to preserve Lebanon’s economic and political relations,” Hariri said.
Lebanon, where Sunni Muslim, Shi‘ite, Christian and Druze groups fought a civil war from 1975-1990, has a governing system designed to share power among sectarian groups.
Hariri, a wealthy Sunni businessman with long ties to the kingdom, had denounced Iran during his resignation speech and said he was outside Lebanon because he feared for his family’s safety. His father, an ex-prime minister, was assassinated in 2005.
In a speech during the cabinet session, Hariri warned that the tensions in the region could easily drag Lebanon down a dangerous route, and the issues which had led to the crisis could not be ignored.
”Developments in the region suggest a new wave of conflict ... Perhaps the conflict is nearing the end, and Lebanon cannot be plunged into chaos on the finish line.
“If we are rejecting interference by any state in Lebanese affairs, it cannot be that we accept that any Lebanese side interferes in the affairs of Arab states,” Hariri said, an apparent reference to Hezbollah.
“We have to address this issue, and take a decision announcing our disassociation, in words and deeds,” he said.
Hariri’s resignation was accompanied by a sharp escalation in Saudi statements targeting the Lebanese state, with Riyadh at one point accusing the Beirut government of declaring war against it. Western governments, including the United States, stressed their support for Hariri and Lebanon.
Hariri will be in Paris on Friday for a meeting of the International Lebanon Support Group, a body that includes the five members of the U.N. Security Council - Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States.
The meeting, to be opened by French President Emmanuel Macron, aims in part to put pressure on Saudi Arabia and Iran to desist from interference in Lebanon, diplomats said.
(The story has been corrected to re-insert the word “not” in paragraph 13)


BEIJING (Reuters) - China said on Wednesday it hopes relevant parties can exercise restraint over North Korea, after the South Korean military said that U.S. B-1B bomber flew over the Korean peninsula during a large-scale joint aerial drill.
Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang made the comments at a regular briefing.


LONDON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump would effectively be making a declaration of war if he recognises Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, the Palestinians’ chief representative to Britain said on Wednesday.
“If he says what he is intending to say about Jerusalem being the capital of Israel, it means a kiss of death to the two state solution,” Manuel Hassassian said in a BBC radio interview.
“He is declaring war in the Middle East, he is declaring war against 1.5 billion Muslims (and) hundreds of millions of Christians that are not going to accept the holy shrines to be totally under the hegemony of Israel,” Hassassian added.
Senior U.S. officials said on Tuesday that Trump will recognise Jerusalem as Israel’s capital on Wednesday and set in motion the relocation of the U.S. embassy to the city.


LONDON (Reuters) - British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said on Wednesday that he was concerned about reports that U.S. President Donald Trump’s would recognise Jerusalem as Israel’s capital.
“Lets wait and see what the president says exactly. But, you know, we view the reports that we have heard with concern because we think that Jerusalem obviously should be part of the final settlement between the Israelis and the Palestinians,” he told reporters in Brussels.
Senior U.S. officials said on Tuesday that Trump will recognise Jerusalem as Israel’s capital on Wednesday and set in motion the relocation of the U.S. Embassy to the city.


MIRANSHAH, Pakistan (Reuters) - A bomb rigged to a motorcycle exploded in a militant-plagued part of northwest Pakistan near the Afghan border, killing nine people, officials said on Wednesday, the latest violence in a recent rise in attacks in the nuclear-armed country.
The bomb was detonated by remote control late on Tuesday when an army vehicle passed in Mir Ali town in the North Waziristan region, said three Pakistani officials who declined to be identified as they are not authorised to speak to the media.
A spokesman for the Pakistani army, which is responsible for security in the volatile, ethnic Pashtun region, did not respond to calls seeking comment.
“Waziristan is bleeding once again,” said police official  Tahir Khan in Peshawar, the main city in the northwest, who said he had heard about the blast but had no details.
No militant group claimed responsibility.
North Waziristan was long home to Pakistani and foreign Islamist militants linked to the Taliban and al Qaeda until the Pakistani army launched a major push against them in mid-2014.
The military offensive cleared the militants from their bases and largely broke up their networks, forcing them to flee either over the porous border into Afghanistan or to other parts of Pakistan.
But the militants have struck back, sometimes with major attacks.
Last Friday, three Pakistani Taliban suicide bombers stormed a college in Peshawar, killing eight students and a guard.
A week earlier, a senior police commander was killed in a suicide bomb attack in Peshawar.
On Tuesday, the Pakistani Taliban killed a member of an anti-Taliban faction in another part of the northwest, while a bomb aimed at members of another pro-government faction killed five people a week earlier.
The Pakistani Taliban are fighting to topple the government and impose a strict interpretation of Islamic law. They are loosely allied with the Afghan Taliban who ruled most of Afghanistan until they were overthrown by U.S.-backed military action in 2001.
U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis visited Pakistan this week to urge it to “redouble” efforts to rein in militants accused of using the country as a base to carry out attacks in Afghanistan.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - The State Duma lower house of Russia’s parliament voted on Wednesday to bar correspondents of U.S. mass media, including The Voice of America and Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, from attending its sessions, the Interfax news agency reported.
On Tuesday, these two media outlets were officially designated as “foreign agents” by Russia’s justice ministry, a move aimed at complicating their work in retaliation for what Moscow says is unacceptable U.S. pressure on Russian media.


BANGKOK (Reuters) - A Thai court sentenced a 62-year-old man to 27 years in prison on Wednesday for planting a bomb at a Bangkok hospital that wounded 21 people.
The explosion hit the Phramongkutklao Hospital in the Thai capital, Bangkok, in May on the third anniversary of a 2014 military coup. The hospital is popular with soldiers and their families and retired military officers.
Police arrested Watana Pumret, a retired government employee, after the blast and said he had confessed to the bombing because he despises the military.
“From the evidence we believe the accused committed the offence ... the accused confessed to it,” a judge said.
Courts in Thailand often do not identify the names of judges, with the exception of some high-profile legal cases.
Watana was seen crying after the verdict. He hugged his wife and refused to answer reporters’ questions, according to a Reuters reporter at the court.
Reuters was unable to contact Watana’s lawyer after the verdict.
Thailand’s military launched a coup in May 2014 after months of street protests that took a toll on Southeast Asia’s second-biggest economy. The military promised to unite the politically divided country and restore stability but it has been accused by critics of not wanting to relinquish power.
The military government has promised to hold a general election in November 2018 to return Thailand to democracy but senior government figures have said more time was needed to complete laws related to the vote.
The government has also cited security concerns as a reason for not lifting a ban on politics that has been in place since 2014, despite increasing pressure from groups of all political stripes to lift the ban.


NEW YORK (Reuters) - Japan’s Emperor Hirohito did not veto his advisers’ decision to declare war on the United States in 1941 because he feared triggering an internal conflict that would destroy his country, he said in an account dictated to an adviser.
Set for auction in New York on Wednesday, the handwritten document throws light on Japan’s role in World War Two, as it records events dating from the 1920s, such as Hirohito’s resolve not to oppose future cabinet decisions, even if he disagreed.
“He realised that if he wanted to be in power, he had to do what they wanted,” Tom Lamb, director of the books and manuscripts department at auction house Bonhams, told Reuters.
“And that is an interesting fact, since, throughout the late 1930s and through the 1940s, military decisions were made, which he could not contest,” he said.
The auctioneers have put an estimate of $100,000 to $150,000 on the manuscript, which consists of two browning twine-bound notebooks written in pen and pencil by Terasaki Hidenari, an interpreter and adviser to the emperor, in 1946.
The memoir concludes with the emperor’s statement that if he had vetoed the decision to go to war, it would have resulted in a civil conflict that would have been even worse and “Japan would have been destroyed,” the auction house said on its website.
Known in Japanese as “Dokuhakuroku”, or “The Emperor’s Monologue”, the remarks may offer insight into the role the monarch played in the war campaign.
This is a topic academics say has never been fully pursued in Japan, largely due to U.S. occupation authorities’ decision to retain the emperor as a symbol of a newly democratic nation.
“The Americans needed Emperor Hirohito to bind the country together, which he did,” Lamb added.
“The whole of Japan changed from a rather military pre-war style to a postwar economic powerhouse, and obviously the emperor was part of that.”


BOGOTA (Reuters) - Thirteen people, including civilians, were killed during a confrontation between Colombia’s ELN rebels and dissidents from the now-demobilized FARC guerrilla group in a remote area known for drug trafficking, the country’s ombudsman said on Tuesday.
The incident took place on Nov. 27 in the southwestern Narino region, a place where crime gangs and rebel groups are known to grow, process and smuggle coca, the base ingredient in cocaine.
A hard-won peace accord was agreed with the now-disbanded Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) rebel group last year, ending some five decades of war.
But an array of FARC dissidents, National Liberation Army (ELN) rebels, right-wing ex-paramilitaries and crime gangs are still active in Colombia, competing for control of lucrative illegal mines and drug trafficking routes.
In Narino, fighters from the ELN attacked members of the Rural Resistance, ombudsmen Carlos Alfonso Negret said in a report. The Rural Resistance are FARC dissidents who refused to demobilize following the peace deal.
“The ombudsman’s office visited the area and was able to determine that there was an exchange of fire between the group that calls itself Rural Resistance and the ELN,” Negret told journalists. “There was crossfire that killed 13 people.”
Neither the report nor Negret specified how many of the dead were civilians.
More than 11,000 fighters and collaborators from the FARC handed over their weapons this year as part of the peace accord. The group has kept its initials in its reincarnation as a political party.
But Negret says some 800 former guerrillas did not demobilize, while other security sources and thinktanks put the number of dissident ex-FARC at between 700 and 1,300.
The ELN and the government began their first ever bilateral ceasefire in October, part of peace talks taking place in Ecuador. The ceasefire is set to run through Jan. 9 and may be extended.
The incident was a violation of the ceasefire, Negret said. It is the second act of violence which has overshadowed the ceasefire, after the ELN admitted to killing an indigenous leader in restive Choco province.


SANAA/DUBAI (Reuters) - The powerful exiled son of Yemen’s slain ex-president Ali Abdullah Saleh vowed on Tuesday to lead a campaign against the Houthi movement that killed his father after he switched sides in the civil war.
The intervention by Ahmed Ali Saleh, a former leader of the elite Republican Guard once seen as a likely successor to his father, gives the anti-Houthi movement in Sanaa a potential figurehead, after a week of fighting that saw the Houthis rout Saleh’s supporters in the capital.
Yemen’s war, pitting the Iran-allied Houthis who control Sanaa against a Saudi-led military alliance backing a government based in the south, has brought what the United Nations calls the world’s worst humanitarian crisis.
The world body says millions of people may die in one of the worst famines of modern times, caused by warring parties blocking food supplies.
Saleh had helped the Houthis win control of much of the country’s north including Sanaa, and his decision to switch allegiances and abandon the Houthis in the past week was the most dramatic change on the battlefield in years. But the Houthis swiftly crushed a pro-Saleh uprising in the capital and shot him dead in an attack on his convoy.
Tens of thousands of Houthi supporters staged a rally in the capital on Tuesday to show support for their leader and celebrate the death of Saleh. They chanted slogans against Saudi Arabia and its allies.
Mahmoud Ali al-Houthi, head of the movement’s Revolutionary Committee, denied allegations that the group was executing members of Saleh’s party after their capture: “We have been treating some of Saleh’s sons and we haven’t executed them,” he told the crowd.
Sanaa saw no fresh fighting on Tuesday after five days of combat that the Red Cross said killed more than 230 people. The Saudi-led coalition struck the city with 25 air strikes overnight, but U.N. and Red Cross aid flights were able to land at the airport, U.N. humanitarian coordinator in Yemen Jamie McGoldrick said.
“People are now emerging from their houses after five days being locked down basically as prisoners,” McGoldrick told a U.N. briefing by phone from Sanaa. “They are now seeking safety, moving their families in case things erupt again and at the same time seeking medical treatment and trying to pacify very terrified kids who have endured five days of relentless shelling, shooting and ground fire and air strikes.”
The Saudi cabinet, in a statement that did not mention Saleh by name, said it hoped the Sanaa uprising against the Houthis would “help rid sisterly Yemen of repression, death threats, ... explosions and seizure of private and public property”.
The death of Saleh, who once compared ruling Yemen to dancing on the heads of snakes, deepens the complexity of the multi-sided war.
Much is likely to depend on the future allegiances of his loyalists, who had previously helped the armed Houthi group, which hails from the Zaidi branch of Shi‘ite Islam that ruled a thousand-year kingdom in northern Yemen until 1962.
In a statement sent to Reuters by an aide, his son said his father was killed at “the hands of the enemies of God and the country”. Ahmed Ali said he would “confront the enemies of the homeland and humanity, who are trying to obliterate its identity and its gains and to humiliate Yemen and Yemenis”.
In an earlier statement carried by Saudi state media, Ahmed Ali said he would lead “the battle until the last Houthi is thrown out of Yemen ... the blood of my father will be hell ringing in the ears of Iran.”
The Arabian peninsula’s poorest country, Yemen is one of the most violent fronts in a proxy war between Saudi Arabia and Iran, who have also backed opposing sides in Syria, Iraq and elsewhere across the Middle East.
The Saudi-led coalition appears to have been counting on Saleh’s decision to switch sides to tip the balance of the war.
Saleh, who ruled in Sanaa from 1978-2012, had a strong following in Yemen, including army officers and armed tribal leaders who once served under him.
During the years the ex-president was allied to the Houthis, Yemeni political sources say Ahmed Ali was living incommunicado under house arrest at a guarded villa in the UAE capital Abu Dhabi, where he had served as ambassador.
The UAE is a key member of the mostly Gulf Arab alliance that sees the Houthis as a proxy of their arch-enemy Iran. The Gulf countries had struggled to make gains against the Houthi-Saleh alliance despite thousands of air strikes backed by Western arms and intelligence. They have used their air and sea power to tightly restrict imports, action that the United Nations says could lead to mass hunger.
Ahmed Ali may be the family’s last chance to win back influence. A nephew of the former leader, Tareq Mohammed Abdullah Saleh, a senior military commander, was also killed during clashes with the Houthis, Saleh’s party said on Tuesday.
Residents reported that fighting had subsided but that  Saudi-led coalition jets pounded several targets, including the downtown presidential palace where a governing body led by Houthi-Saleh politicians had regularly convened.
The Houthi leader, Abdul Malek al-Houthi, hailed Saleh’s death in a speech on Monday as a victory against a treasonous conspiracy by Yemen’s Saudi enemies and called for Tuesday’s mass rally at a parade ground near the site of the air strikes.
In the southern city of Aden, where the Saudi-backed government is based, residents set off fireworks and expressed joy. Saleh was hated throughout southern Yemen after he launched a war to unify the country in 1994, lobbing ballistic missiles at the city.
But his legacy is mixed. He is still loved in much of the north and many supporters will bear a grudge towards his killers. Some feared Saleh’s death would only create more instability in Yemen.
“We expect things will get worse for us. This will be the beginning of a new conflict and more bloodshed. The war will not end soon,” said Aswan Abdu Khalid, an academic at the psychology department at the University of Aden.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said on Tuesday that the killing of former Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh would, in the short term, likely worsen an already dire humanitarian situation in the country.
Saleh was killed in a roadside attack on Monday after switching sides in Yemen’s civil war, abandoning his Iran-aligned Houthi allies in favour of a Saudi-led coalition.
Coupled with a Saudi-led blockade and internal clashes, the stalemate has contributed to a human catastrophe. Some 7 million people are on the brink of famine, while one million are suspected to be infected with cholera.
Mattis, speaking with reporters on a military aircraft en route to Washington after a brief trip to parts of the Middle East and South Asia, said it was too early to say what impact the killing would have on the war.
He said it could either push the conflict towards U.N. peace negotiations or make it an “even more vicious war.”
“(But)one thing I think I can say with a lot of concern and probably likelihood is that the situation for the innocent people there, the humanitarian side, is most likely to (get) worse in the short term,” Mattis said. He did not explain his reasoning.
The war has already killed more than 10,000 and displaced millions.
“So this is where we’ve all got to roll up our sleeves. Now, what are you going to do about medicine and food and clean water and cholera,” Mattis said.
“I think there has got to be a lot more focus on the humanitarian side right now.”
Analysts said Saleh’s death would be a huge moral boost for the Houthis and a serious blow to the Saudi-led coalition that intervened in the conflict to try to restore the internationally recognised government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi.
Saudi Arabia and its allies receive logistical and intelligence help from the United States.
Mattis said he did not believe the U.S. military would play a role in easing the humanitarian situation.


AMSTERDAM/LONDON (Reuters) - One of Eastern Europe’s most prolific cyber criminals has been arrested in a joint operation involving Belarus, Germany and the United States that aimed to dismantle a vast computer network used to carry out financial scams, officials said on Tuesday.
National police in Belarus, working with the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation, said they had arrested a citizen of Belarus on suspicion of selling malicious software who they described as administrator of the Andromeda network.
Andromeda is made up of a collection of “botnets”, or groups of computers that have been infected with viruses to allow hackers to control them remotely without the knowledge of their owners, These networks were in turn leased to other criminals to mount malware or phishing attacks and other online scams.
Swedish-American cyber security firm Recorded Future said they have “a high degree of certainty” that the arrested Belarussian is “Ar3s”, a prominent hacker in the Russian speaking cybercrime underground since 2004, who the firm has identified as the creator of the Andromeda botnet, among other hacking tools.
“Andromeda was one of the oldest malwares on the market,” said Jan Op Gen Oorths a spokesman for Europol, the European Union’s law enforcement agency. It estimated the malicious software infected more than 1 million computers worldwide every month, on average, dating back to at least 2011.
Although authorities in Belarus declined to name the suspected hacker and Europol and the FBI declined to comment, the firm Recorded Future identified Ar3s as Sergei Yarets, a 33-year-old man living in Rechitsa, near Gomel, the second largest city in Belarus.
Reuters could not reach Yarets via phone or social media.
Yarets is identified on LinkedIn as technical director of OJSC “Televid”, a television broadcaster in southeastern Belarus.
A colleague at the company contacted by Reuters said Yarets  had been arrested but declined to comment further.
A source at a government agency involved in the investigation said that the arrested hacker behind Andromeda was Yarets.
The Belarus Ministry of Internal Affairs in Minsk said officers had seized equipment from the hacker’s offices and he was cooperating with the investigation.
Information about the operation has been gradually released by Europol, the FBI and Belarus’s Investigative Committee over the past two days. No further arrests have been reported.
The shutdown of the Andromeda botnet, announced on Monday, was engineered by a taskforce coordinated by Europol which included several European law enforcement agencies, the FBI, the German Federal Office for Information Security and agencies from Australia, Belarus, Canada, Montenegro, Singapore and Taiwan.
The police operation, which involved help from Microsoft and ESET, a Slovakian cyber security firm, was significant both for the number of computers infected worldwidew and because Andromeda had been used over a number of years to distribute scores of new viruses.
Belarus authorities said the man they arrested charged other criminals $500 for each copy of Andromeda he sold to mount online attacks, and $10 for subsequent software updates.
Microsoft said Andromeda charged $150 for a keylogger to copy keystrokes to steal user names and passwords. And for $250, it offered modules to steal data from forms submitted by web browsers, or the capacity to spy on victims using remote control software from German firm Teamviewer.
German authorities, working with Microsoft, had taken control of the bulk of the network, so that information sent from infected computers was rerouted to safe police servers instead, a process known as “sinkholing.”
Information was sent to the sinkhole from more than 2 million unique internet addresses in the first 48 hours after the operation began on Nov. 29, Europol said.
Owners of infected computers are unlikely to even know or take action. More than 55 percent of computers found to be infected in a previous operation a year ago are still infected, Europol said.


FRANKFURT/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A U.S. federal investigator probing alleged Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election asked Deutsche Bank for data on accounts held by President Donald Trump and his family, a person close to the matter said on Tuesday, but Trump’s lawyer denied any such subpoena had been issued.
Germany’s largest bank received a subpoena from Special Counsel Robert Mueller several weeks ago to provide information on certain money and credit transactions, the person said, without giving details, adding that key documents had been handed over in the meantime.
Deutsche Bank has lent the Trump Organization hundreds of millions of dollars for real estate ventures and is one of the few major lenders that has given large amounts of credit to Trump in the past decade. A string of bankruptcies at his hotel and casino businesses during the 1990s made most of Wall Street wary of extending him credit.
Mueller is investigating alleged Russian attempts to influence the election, and potential collusion by Trump aides. Russia has denied U.S. intelligence agencies’ conclusion that it  meddled in the election and Trump has said there was no collusion with Moscow.
Jay Sekulow, one of Trump’s personal lawyers, said Deutsche Bank has not received any subpoena for financial records relating to the president as part of Mueller’s probe.
“We have confirmed that the news reports that the Special Counsel had subpoenaed financial records relating to the president are false,” Sekulow told Reuters in a statement. “No subpoena has been issued or received. We have confirmed this with the bank and other sources.”
He later said the bank in question was Deutsche Bank. A spokesman for Mueller declined to comment.
A Deutsche Bank spokesman in New York had no immediate comment beyond the statement the bank issued earlier on Tuesday which said the bank takes “its legal obligations seriously and remains committed to cooperating with authorized investigations into this matter.”
A U.S. official with knowledge of Mueller’s probe said one reason for the subpoenas was to find out whether Deutsche Bank may have sold some of Trump’s mortgage or other loans to Russian state development bank VEB or other Russian banks that now are under U.S. and European Union sanctions.
VEB, as well as the Russian Agricultural Bank and Gazprombank did not immediately reply to emailed requests for comment.
“No one from the VTB Group representatives has received a subpoena because there are absolutely no grounds for it,” a bank representative said in response to a request from Reuters. “Deutsche Bank did not contact us regarding people connected with the Trump administration.”
“We would not comment on the existence of any such request, had one been received,” responded a representative of Sberbank.
Holding Trump debt, particularly if some of it was or is coming due, could potentially give Russian banks some leverage over Trump, especially if they are state-owned, said a second U.S. official familiar with Russian intelligence methods.
“One obvious question is why Trump and those around him expressed interest in improving relations with Russia as a top foreign policy priority, and whether or not any personal considerations played any part in that,” the second official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
A source close to Deutsche Bank said the bank had run checks on Trump’s financial dealings with Russia.
During his election campaign, Trump said he would seek to improve ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin, which were strained during President Barack Obama’s administration.
The subpoena was earlier reported by German daily Handelsblatt.
During a photo opportunity with senators at the White House on Tuesday, Trump declined to answer shouted questions from reporters about whether Mueller had crossed a line by asking Deutsche Bank for information.
In a July 9 interview with the New York Times, Trump said Mueller should not extend his investigation into Trump’s finances if they were not directly related to the Russia accusations.
Asked if delving into his and his family’s finances unrelated to the Russia probe would cross a red line, Trump replied, “I would say yeah. I would say yes.”
Deutsche Bank earlier this year rebuffed efforts by Democratic U.S. lawmakers to get more information on its dealings with Trump as well as any information it may have about whether the Republican, his family or advisers had financial backing from Russia.
Trump had liabilities of at least $130 million (£96.8 million) to Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, a unit of the German bank, according to a federal financial disclosure form released in June by the U.S. Office of Government Ethics.
The Deutsche debts include a loan exceeding $50 million for the Old Post Office, a historic property he redeveloped in downtown Washington, mortgages worth more than $55 million on a golf course in Florida, and a $25 million-plus loan on a Trump hotel and condominium in Chicago, the disclosure shows.
All of those loans were taken out in 2012 and will mature in 2023 and 2024, according to the disclosure.
Trump and Deutsche Bank have not always been on good terms. Trump sued the bank and other lenders in 2008, demanding $3 billion in damages, claiming they broke agreements in the construction and financing of a Chicago hotel.
Deutsche Bank countersued and the two sides eventually settled.
Internal Deutsche Bank documents seen by Reuters feature the names of Trump’s former campaign manager Paul Manafort and his wife, Kathleen, in a series of client profiles. But it was not immediately clear what their relationship with the bank is or had been.
According to a person familiar with the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity, Manafort and his wife do not have Deutsche Bank accounts.
The bank declined to comment on whether Manafort is or has ever been a client.
A spokesman for Manafort declined to comment.
In October, Manafort pleaded not guilty to charges including conspiracy to launder money and conspiracy against the United States. The charges were brought as part of Mueller’s investigation.


DUBLIN (Reuters) - Ireland might consider adding elements to the text of an agreement on the post-Brexit future of Northern Ireland’s border as long as they do not undermine those already contained in the deal, the Irish Times reported on Tuesday.
Prime Minister Theresa May has found it difficult to come up with a formula that satisfies both EU member Ireland, which wants to avoid creation of a “hard” border, and Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), which says the British province must quit the EU on the same terms as the rest of the UK. The DUP props up May’s minority government.
A tentative deal on the border, promising “regulatory alignment” on both sides of the island of Ireland, was agreed on Monday. It was later rejected by the DUP, which says it cannot allow any divergence in regulation between Northern Ireland and other parts of the UK.
Brussels says agreement is needed before it will give the green light for Britain to begin talks on future free trade when European Union leaders meet next week.
The Irish Times quoted a spokesman for Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar as saying the adding of elements to assuage the concerns of the DUP “doesn’t seem unreasonable” and was “a possibility.” The Irish Times suggested such an element might refer to the strength of the UK as a political entity.
Asked to comment on the report, a spokesman for Varadkar said “the view of the Irish government is that the terms of the deal reached on Monday must stand.”
“It’s up to the UK government to work out with the DUP how it proposes to move forward,” the spokesman added.


VALLETTA (Reuters) - A magistrate on Tuesday charged three men with murder over a car-bomb blast that killed anti-corruption journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia, court officials said.
Caruana Galizia died instantly when her car was blown up as she drove out of her home on Oct. 16, a killing that shocked Malta and raised concern within the European Union about the rule of law on the tiny Mediterranean island. All three pleaded not guilty at the arraignment, which was attended by her husband, Peter Caruana Galizia.
The men were named as Vince Muscat and brothers Alfred and George Degiorgio. It was not immediately clear whether police thought they had acted on their own or were hit men working for others.
Caruana Galizia wrote a popular blog in which she relentlessly highlighted cases of alleged graft targeting politicians of all colours, including Prime Minister Joseph Muscat. Vince Muscat was not a relative. [	]
Police arrested 10 men on Monday in connection with their investigation into the killing. The other seven were released on bail.
A close friend of Caruana Galizia told Reuters that she did not think the journalist had ever investigated the three men charged on Tuesday.
“She wrote about government officials, politicians and wealthy business types,” the friend said, declining to be named because of the sensitivity of the case.
The Malta government had offered a 1 million euro reward leading to information on the murder. It also called in the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation and Europol to assist in investigations.
Maltese media said investigators had homed in on the suspects following telephone intercepts – known as triangulation data – that included the call from a mobile phone which triggered the car bomb.
Malta, the smallest nation in the European Union, has been engulfed by a wave of graft scandals in recent months, including accusations of money laundering and influence peddling in government - all of which have been denied.
Caruana Galizia exposed many of these cases and was loved by her readers as a fearless, anti-corruption crusader. Critics saw her as a muck-raking fantasist and she had been hit with 36 libel lawsuits in the nine months preceding her death.
Much of her criticism was levelled against Prime Minister Muscat and his leftist Labour party, which won power in 2013 after a nearly quarter of a century of uninterrupted rule by the conservative Nationalist Party.
In the months before her death, she had also regularly targeted senior Nationalist figures.
Italian newspapers have speculated that she might have fallen foul of men who were making a fortune by smuggling fuel out of lawless Libya. However, her friend said she had never looked into the illegal trade and any mention of it in her blog related to articles already published elsewhere.


TUNIS (Reuters) - The United Nations migration agency is stepping up the rate at which it flies migrants home from Libya, aiming to evacuate up to 15,000 in the final month of the year.
The acceleration of returns is an attempt to ease severe overcrowding in detention centres, where numbers swelled after boat departures for Italy from the smuggling hub of Sabratha were largely blocked this year.
It also followed a CNN report showing migrants being sold for slave labour in Libya, sparking an international outcry and calls for migrants to be given safe passage from the country.
The International Organization for Migration (IOM) has already flown back more than 14,500 migrants to their countries of origin so far this year as part of its voluntary returns programme. Nigeria, Guinea, Gambia, Mali and Senegal have seen the highest numbers of returns.
Migrant flows through Libya surged from 2014. More than 600,000 crossing the central Mediterranean to Italy over the past three years, but departures from Libya’s coast dropped sharply in July when armed groups in Sabratha began preventing boats from leaving.
After clashes in the western city in September, thousands of migrants who had been held near the coast surfaced and were transferred to detention centres under the nominal control of the U.N.-backed government in Tripoli.
Numbers in about 16 centres rose to nearly 20,000, from 5,000-7,000 previously, leading to a worsening of already poor conditions.
“We are seeing an increasing number of migrants wishing to return home especially after what happened in Sabratha, it’s all linked to Sabratha,” said Ashraf Hassan, head of the IOM returns programme.
In the aftermath of the CNN report and an African Union visit to Libya, some countries of origin have begun accepting charter flights returning migrants from Libya for the first time.
The IOM has shortened procedures for screening migrants Libya, collecting less statistical data and focussing on trying to ensure that migrants will not be put at risk by returning, Hassan said.
The agency hopes to have three charter flights leaving per day by Dec. 11, increasing that to five flights by Dec. 15.
On Tuesday nearly 400 migrants were flown back to Nigeria on two flights from Tripoli, the capital, and from the western city of Misrata.
(This story has been refiled to fix typo in 9th paragraph.)


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia has communication channels with North Korea open and Moscow is ready to exert its influence on Pyongyang, RIA news agency quoted Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov as saying on Tuesday.
“We have channels, through which we are conducting a dialogue, and we are ready to deploy them, we are ready to exert our influence on North Korea,” Morgulov was quoted as saying at a conference in Berlin.
He also said that neither Washington, not Pyongyang want a real war “but such scenarios exists”.
The Kremlin has traditionally protected the reclusive state though the latest Pyongyang tests have irked Moscow.
North Korea, which conducted its sixth and largest nuclear bomb test in September, has tested dozens of ballistic missiles under Kim Jong Un’s leadership in defiance of international sanctions.
Morgulov called for other measures than isolation to exercise in dealing with North Korea.
“We believe that the isolation alone...will not work, this won’t take us forward. By doing this, we will only worsen the situation, which is dangerous. We are really on the brink of a real war,” he said.
In Washington, a U.S. State Department spokeswoman said the Trump administration still wanted a peaceful, diplomatic solution to the nuclear and missile threat from Pyongyang but said: “(North Korea) has shown through its actions that it is not interested in talks. We must remain focused on increasing the costs for Pyongyang to continue to advance its WMD programs.”
Morgulov was also quoted as saying that North Korea was seeking a direct dialogue with the United States on its nuclear programme, while it was not in need of security guarantees either from China or Russia.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia designated Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL) and Voice of America (VOA) as “foreign agents” on Tuesday, a move aimed at complicating their work in retaliation for what Moscow says is unacceptable U.S. pressure on Russian media.
Russia’s broadside is likely to further sour battered U.S.-Russia relations and is part of the fallout from allegations that the Kremlin meddled in the U.S. presidential election last year in Donald Trump’s favour, something Moscow denies.
U.S. intelligence officials accused the Kremlin of using Russian media it finances to influence U.S. voters, and Russian state broadcaster RT last month reluctantly complied with a U.S. request to register a U.S.-based affiliate as a “foreign agent” under the Foreign Agent Registration Act.
The Kremlin called the move an attack on free speech and says the new media law in Russia, which Western critics have called a disproportionate response, is retaliation.
Moscow’s response was widely trailed. Russian lawmakers rushed through the necessary legislation last month and President Vladimir Putin signed off on it on Nov. 25.
Russia’s justice ministry said in a statement on its website on Tuesday it had now formally designated U.S. government-sponsored VOA and RFE/RL, along with seven separate Russian or local-language news outlets run by RFE/RL, as “fulfilling the role of foreign agents”.
RFE/RL President Thomas Kent said in a video statement his organisation was committed to continuing its journalistic work in Russia, but was expecting “even more limitations on the work of our company”.
“So far the full nature of these limitations is unknown,” said Kent. “We will study carefully all communications from the ministry and other Russian official organisations.”
VOA Director Amanda Bennett told Reuters her organisation also thought it was unclear what new curbs it would face.
The new designation subjects affected U.S.-backed news outlets to the same requirements that are applied to foreign-funded non-governmental organisations under a 2012 law.
Under that law, “foreign agents” must include in any information they publish or broadcast to Russian audiences a mention of their “foreign agent” designation.
They also must apply for inclusion in a government register, submit regular reports on their sources of funding, on their objectives, on how they spend their money, and who their managers are.
They can be subject to spot checks by the authorities to make sure they comply with the rules, according to the 2012 law, which has forced some NGOs to close.
One of the seven outlets on the justice ministry list provides news on Crimea, which Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014, one on Siberia, and one on the predominantly Muslim North Caucasus region.
Another covers provincial Russia, one is an online TV station, another covers the mostly Muslim region of Tatarstan, and the other is a news portal that fact-checks the statements of Russian officials.


RIYADH (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia’s public prosecutor said on Tuesday most of the people detained in a sweeping anti-corruption campaign launched last month have agreed to settlements to avoid prosecution while the rest could be held for months.
In a statement, the public prosecutor said a total of 320 people had been subpoenaed to provide information about alleged graft while 159 remain in detention and “a number” of them have been referred for judicial action.
Saudi security forces have rounded up members of the political and business elite, including princes and tycoons, holding them in Riyadh’s opulent Ritz Carlton hotel on the orders of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in what was billed as a war on rampant corruption.
The purge has caused concern about damage to the economy especially among foreign investors the kingdom is seeking to attract to develop its economy away from oil. But the government has insisted it is respecting due process and that the companies of detained businessmen will continue operating normally.
The allegations, which could not be verified, include kickbacks, inflating government contracts, extortion and bribery.
A Saudi minister told Reuters on Monday that the main wave of arrests was over and the authorities were preparing to channel an estimated $50-$100 billion of seized funds into economic development projects.
The first financial settlements were brokered last week with senior Prince Miteb bin Abdullah, once seen as a leading contender for the throne, being freed after agreeing to pay over $1 billion, officials said. [L8N1NZ07R]
The public prosecutor said the anti-corruption committee headed by 32-year-old Prince Mohammed, the king’s favoured son also known as MbS, was expected to finish the settlement phase within a few weeks.
“The Committee has followed internationally applied procedures by negotiating with the detainees and offering them a settlement that will facilitate recouping the State’s funds and assets, and eliminate the need for a prolonged litigation.”
Detainees are free to contact whomever they like and to reject any settlement offers, the statement said. Those who sign deals are recommended for pardon and an end to criminal litigation.
People who refuse to settle are referred to the public prosecutor for additional investigation and potential prosecution, the statement said. They can be held for up to six months with the possibility of court-ordered extension.
MbS said in a New York Times interview last month that about one percent of detainees were able to prove they are clean, four percent wanted to go to court and the rest had agreed to settle.
While some individuals have been identified - like Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, the kingdom’s best known businessman - most remain unnamed.
A Paris-based French diplomatic source told Reuters at least one of those held at the Ritz is a Franco-Saudi national.
“We were informed by the family of the arrest of one of our compatriots in Saudi Arabia and we asked for information from the Saudi authorities in view of offering consular protection in line with the Vienna convention,” the diplomat said.
The public prosecutor also said the bank accounts of 376 people in detention and others related remain frozen, down from over 2,000 a few weeks ago.
The arrest of royals and top business elite capped a frenetic period of almost three years of growing power by MbS who also oversees the defence and oil strategy.
Critics say the government’s campaign amounts to a shakedown and is aimed at shoring up the crown prince’s power base as he exerts control over the world’s leading oil exporter. The authorities deny those claims.


JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Israel’s mayor of Jerusalem Nir Barkat said on Tuesday that moving the U.S. Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to the holy city can take “two minutes”.
Senior U.S. officials have said President Donald Trump is likely on Wednesday to recognise Jerusalem as Israel’s capital while delaying relocating the embassy from Tel Aviv for another six months, though he is expected to order his aides to begin planning such a move immediately.
The officials said, however, that no final decisions have been made as an outcry grew across the Middle East and among world powers against any unilateral U.S. decision on Jerusalem.
Barkat said the United States would only have to convert one of its existing assets in the city, such as its consulate located in West Jerusalem.
“They just take the symbol of the consulate and switch it to the embassy symbol - two American Marines can do it in two minutes, and give the ambassador David Friedman a space to sit in,” Barkat told Israel Radio.
“The implementation of this decision is immediate and then later slowly start moving the employees in a more structured manner to begin providing services in Jerusalem,” Barkat said.
The status of Jerusalem is one of the major stumbling blocks in decades of on-and-off Israeli-Palestinian peace talks.
The Palestinians want East Jerusalem as the capital of their future state. Israel considers all of the city its indivisible, eternal capital. Jerusalem is home to sites holy to Islam, Judaism and Christianity
Israel captured Arab East Jerusalem during the 1967 Middle East War and later annexed it, a move not recognised internationally.
U.S. endorsement of Israel’s claim to all of Jerusalem as its capital would break with decades of U.S. policy that the city’s status must be decided in negotiations with the Palestinians.


AMMAN (Reuters) - Jordan plans to convene emergency meetings of the Arab League and Organisation of Islamic Cooperation next Saturday and Sunday on how to face the “dangerous” consequences of U.S. President Donald Trump’s decision to move Washington’s embassy in Israel to Jerusalem, the foreign minister said.
The kingdom is holding consultations with Arab League members in its capacity as president of the Arab summit and also with Turkey which holds the chairmanship of the OIC, Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman al Safadi told Reuters.
“These meetings will coordinate Arab and Islamic stances towards the (Trump) decision.. Jerusalem is a Palestinian, Jordanian, Islamic, and Christian issue and any attempts to decide its fate unilaterally are null and void,” Safadi said.


KIEV (Reuters) - Ukrainian supporters of former Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili freed him from a police van on Tuesday after his detention on suspicion of assisting a criminal organisation led to clashes with police in Kiev.
Once freed, Saakashvili raised a hand in a V-for-victory sign -- a handcuff still dangling from his wrist as he stood in a melee of supporters. He then led protesters towards parliament, where he called defiantly for President Petro Poroshenko to be removed from office.
Prosecutors said they would make all efforts to regain custody of Saakashvili but the chaotic scenes of his detention and escape are likely to undermine the image of stability that Ukraine’s leadership are keen to present to foreign backers.
Ukrainian prosecutors suspect Saakashvili of receiving financing from a criminal group linked to former president Viktor Yanukovich which planned to overthrow the current government.
He could face up to five years if found guilty. Saakashvili is also wanted in Georgia on criminal charges which he says were trumped up for political reasons.
Masked officers had earlier dragged Saakashvili, 49, from an apartment in the Ukrainian capital. But his supporters prevented the police van from moving off, hemming it in and eventually freeing him by breaking its windows and back door.
Protesters also started assembling a barricade of tyres, wood and stones ripped up from the street in scenes reminiscent of Ukraine’s 2013-14 pro-European ‘Maidan’ uprising.
“Today you maybe saved me from death, therefore my life belongs to you,” Saakashvili told a crowd at a makeshift camp outside parliament built by opposition supporters in September.
“The people of Ukraine must assemble and force the Ukrainian parliament to remove from power the criminal group led by the traitor to Ukraine, Poroshenko,” he said.
General Prosecutor Yuriy Lutsenko said Saakashvili had a 24- hour deadline to present himself to the state security service, but subsequent comments by his press office suggested he could be detained earlier.
“All legal grounds for his detention have been established,” spokesman Andriy Lysenko said.
The detention was the latest twist in a prolonged feud between the Ukrainian authorities and Saakashvili, who was invited by Poroshenko to become a regional governor after the ‘Maidan’ protests ousted a pro-Russian president in early 2014.
The two quickly fell out and Saakashvili turned on his one-time patron.
It is unclear if Tuesday’s events will lead to wider unrest, as Saakashvili enjoys limited support in Ukraine. Only 1.7 percent of voters would support his party, the Movement of New Forces, in elections, according to an October survey by the Kiev-based Razumkov Centre think-tank.
In a response to a request for comment on the case and on Saakashvili’s comments on Poroshenko, the president’s administration said law enforcement had found evidence to back up the claims against Saakashvili.
“These facts clearly demonstrate the true price of all the political and ‘incriminating’ statements, which were recently made by Mikheil Saakashvili,” it said in a statement.
Georgian prosecutors said they had not been informed of Tuesday’s developments by their Ukrainian counterparts.
Saakashvili made a dramatic return to Ukraine in September, barging his way across the border from Poland despite having been stripped of Ukrainian citizenship and facing the threat of possible extradition to Georgia.
He wants to unseat Poroshenko and replace him with a new, younger politician. His supporters have camped in tents outside parliament and launched sporadic protests since his return.
“We have been waiting for it (the arrest) for months, of course, and especially in the recent weeks,” Saakashvili’s wife Sandra Roelofs told Georgian TV Rustavi 2.
“It’s illegal and outrageous.”
Saakashvili received Ukrainian citizenship when he reinvented himself as a Ukrainian politician. He was made governor of the Odessa region in 2015 on the strength of the reforms he carried out in Georgia.
But he fell out with Poroshenko, accusing him of corruption, while Poroshenko’s office said Saakashvili was trying to deflect from his own shortcomings as an administrator.
He was stripped of his citizenship by Poroshenko in July and is now stateless.
Saakashvili’s supporters see him as a fearless crusader against corruption but critics say there is little substance behind his blustery rhetoric.
In his homeland, where he took power after a peaceful pro-Western uprising known as the Rose Revolution in 2003, his time in office was tarnished by what critics said was his attempts to monopolise power and exert pressure on the judiciary.
He was president at the time of a disastrous five-day war with Russia in 2008, a conflict that his critics argued was the result of his own miscalculations.


MADRID (Reuters) - Spain’s Supreme Court on Tuesday withdrew an international arrest warrant for Catalonia’s former leader, in self-imposed exile in Belgium after an illegal independence referendum, in a move to bring his case back solely into Spanish jurisdiction.
Carles Puigdemont and four of his cabinet members went to Belgium when Madrid imposed direct rule on the wealthy northeastern region after an Oct. 27 declaration of independence by his local government.
The decision to withdraw the warrant leaves Puigdemont without an international legal stage on which to pursue his independence campaign. He is likely to be detained if he returns to Spain, pending investigation on charges of sedition, rebellion, misuse of public funds, disobedience and breach of trust.
The battle between Madrid and Catalan secessionists has hurt the Spanish economy and prompted thousands of companies to shift their legal headquarters outside of Catalonia, which accounts for a fifth of Spain’s economy.
On Tuesday, campaigning began for the Dec. 21 Catalan regional election that Madrid called in an attempt to resolve the crisis by installing an administration in favour of Spanish unity.
However, pro-independence parties view the election as a proxy vote on a split from Spain. Polls show both sides neck and neck on a high turnout.
A Spanish court issued the international arrest warrant for Puigdemont on Nov. 3.
On Monday, a Spanish court declared it would keep Puigdemont’s former vice president Oriol Junqueras in custody in Madrid while he is investigated for his role in preparing the independence referendum.
Removing the international warrant takes Belgium’s legal system out of Puigdemont’s case. There could have been months of legal wrangling if appeals against his extradition were moved through the Belgian courts.
Investigating magistrate Pablo Llarena of the Supreme Court said it was important that just one legal entity oversaw proceedings against the former independence leaders to ensure they get equal treatment.
The Belgian prosecutor said authorities were analysing the development but could not comment further at this stage.
Puigdemont’s lawyer Paul Bekaert said legal proceedings in Belgium were now over. Puigdemont would be arrested if he went to Spain, he said.
Puigdemont’s party, Junts per Catalunya (Together for Catalonia), could not be immediately reached for comment.
The Spanish court said Puigdemont and his cabinet members had shown a willingness to return from Belgium to Spain to take part in the election.
Puigdemont gave a televised address from Belgium at a campaign rally on Monday, telling the central government in Madrid that his party would win the election.
“I‘m very sorry I can’t be with you now,” he said to cheers from members of his pro-independence Junts per Catalunya party, which organised the rally.


MADRID (Reuters) - Spain’s Supreme Court on Tuesday withdrew an international arrest warrant for Catalonia’s former leader, in self-imposed exile in Belgium after an illegal independence referendum, in a move to bring his case back solely into Spanish jurisdiction.
Carles Puigdemont and four of his cabinet members went to Belgium when Madrid imposed direct rule on the wealthy northeastern region after an Oct. 27 declaration of independence by his local government.
The decision to withdraw the warrant leaves Puigdemont without an international legal stage on which to pursue his independence campaign. He is likely to be detained if he returns to Spain, pending investigation on charges of sedition, rebellion, misuse of public funds, disobedience and breach of trust.
The battle between Madrid and Catalan secessionists has hurt the Spanish economy and prompted thousands of companies to shift their legal headquarters outside of Catalonia, which accounts for a fifth of Spain’s economy.
On Tuesday, campaigning began for the Dec. 21 Catalan regional election that Madrid called in an attempt to resolve the crisis by installing an administration in favour of Spanish unity.
However, pro-independence parties view the election as a proxy vote on a split from Spain. Polls show both sides neck and neck on a high turnout.
A Spanish court issued the international arrest warrant for Puigdemont on Nov. 3.
On Monday, a Spanish court declared it would keep Puigdemont’s former vice president Oriol Junqueras in custody in Madrid while he is investigated for his role in preparing the independence referendum.
Removing the international warrant takes Belgium’s legal system out of Puigdemont’s case. There could have been months of legal wrangling if appeals against his extradition were moved through the Belgian courts.
Investigating magistrate Pablo Llarena of the Supreme Court said it was important that just one legal entity oversaw proceedings against the former independence leaders to ensure they get equal treatment.
The Belgian prosecutor said authorities were analysing the development but could not comment further at this stage.
Puigdemont’s lawyer Paul Bekaert said legal proceedings in Belgium were now over. Puigdemont would be arrested if he went to Spain, he said.
Puigdemont’s party, Junts per Catalunya (Together for Catalonia), could not be immediately reached for comment.
The Spanish court said Puigdemont and his cabinet members had shown a willingness to return from Belgium to Spain to take part in the election.
Puigdemont gave a televised address from Belgium at a campaign rally on Monday, telling the central government in Madrid that his party would win the election.
“I‘m very sorry I can’t be with you now,” he said to cheers from members of his pro-independence Junts per Catalunya party, which organised the rally.


KUWAIT (Reuters) - Qatar’s Emir said on Tuesday he hoped a summit of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) in Kuwait would help maintain stability in the region, Al-Jazeera TV said, though three Arab heads of state involved in a rift with Qatar stayed away.
Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Bahrain     sent ministers or deputy prime ministers to the annual event. The countries and non-GCC member Egypt have imposed economic, diplomatic and trade sanctions on Qatar in a dispute that began in June.
Qatar’s Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani said the summit took place in “highly sensitive circumstances”. He and Kuwait’s Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber al-Sabah were the only heads of state to attend the meeting.
“I am full of hope that the summit will lead to results that will maintain the security of the Gulf and its stability,” Tamim said, according to the Doha-based Al-Jazeera.
Sheikh Sabah said in a speech at the end of the summit: “We proved once again the resilience of our Gulf institution and its ability to be steadfast, simply by holding into the mechanism of convening these meetings.”
In his opening speech, the Kuwaiti ruler called for a mechanism to be set up in the Western-backed grouping to resolve disputes among its members.
Relations within the Gulf have soured since the four Arab states accused Qatar of supporting terrorism. Qatar denies the charges.
Kuwait, which had spearheaded unsuccessful mediation efforts since the rift began, had hoped the summit would give leaders a chance to meet face-to-face, two Gulf diplomats said.
Earlier, the UAE said it would set up a bilateral cooperation committee with Saudi Arabia, separate from the GCC, on political, economic and military issues.
UAE president Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahyan said the new committee would be chaired by Abu Dhabi’s crown prince, Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed al-Nahayan, Mohammed Bin Zayed, state news agency WAM reported. Saudi Arabia has not yet commented.
The proposal coincides with an escalation in a conflict in Yemen that involves Saudi Arabia and UAE.
Veteran former president Ali Abdullah Saleh was killed in a roadside attack on Monday after switching sides in the war and abandoning his Iran-aligned Houthi allies in favour of a Saudi-led coalition.
The GCC was founded in 1980 as a bulwark against bigger neighbours Iran and Iraq.


HOUSTON (Reuters) - Venezuela’s former ambassador to the United Nations, Rafael Ramirez, has left the United States after being forced to resign by President Nicolas Maduro’s government, according to a source with knowledge of his travel plan.
Ramirez, who for more than a decade ran OPEC member Venezuela’s massive oil industry, said earlier on Tuesday he was removed because of his opinions.


BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Argentina and other South American countries are likely to maintain or increase their submarine programs despite the scrutiny that has followed the fatal loss of an Argentine sub in South Atlantic waters last month, defence specialists said.
The disappearance of the ARA San Juan with 44 crew members aboard has put pressure on Argentine President Mauricio Macri to consider boosting spending for the military, including the country’s two remaining submarines. Military spending sharply decreased after the end of Argentina’s dictatorship in 1983.
“Macri has to take strong steps to rebuild the military after three decades of hyper-low defence spending. Submarines will be a fundamental instrument in that framework,” Fabian Calle, a geopolitics professor at Universidad Austral and Universidad Catolica in Buenos Aires, said on Tuesday.
The government declines to comment about the plans it has for its submarines until the investigation into the Jan Juan disaster is complete.
Argentina spends about 1 percent of its gross domestic product on defence, less than its neighbours Chile, Brazil and Peru.
Peru has six subs, Chile four and Brazil plans to increase its five-vessel fleet by four over the next few years. Ecuador and Venezuela each have two and Colombia has four.
“Submarines are an excellent strategic weapon to use in inter-state conflicts. Thankfully, in our region we have optimal relations with our neighbours. But that can change,” Calle said.
Subs are used to patrol sovereign maritime areas and can transform themselves “into a lethal and surprising threat to a potential adversary,” the Chilean navy says on its website.
Argentina learnt a harsh lesson of submarines’ military value during the 1982 Falklands War, when a British sub sank the ARA General Belgrano cruiser. It was the only major ship Argentina lost in the war over the disputed Falkland Islands, which Argentina calls the Malvinas.
If anything, Argentina’s commitment to submarines is likely to grow in the years ahead, said Omar Lamrani, an analyst with Texas-based geopolitical consultancy Stratfor.
“Since the military budget was cut after the Falklands War, Argentina realized that modernizing and putting money into its submarines can be a very cost effective way of staying ready for any conflict, however unlikely, without having to break its budget by buying much bigger surface vessels,” Lamrani said.
However, there have been questions since the San Juan went missing on Nov. 15 over the resources Argentina has devoted to its submarine fleet. Relatives of San Juan crew members have said they suspect training and maintenance was inadequate.
The Argentine navy says water likely entered the San Juan’s snorkel, causing a battery short circuit and explosion. This scenario could point to deficiencies in the upkeep of the vessel, which will be examined as part of what Macri promises will be an unflinching investigation.
Macri has said the sub was in perfect working order when it embarked on its last patrol mission.
‘UNDERDOG’ WEAPON
Siemon Wezeman, an analyst with the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, said plans to modernize military equipment in Argentina had been repeatedly delayed, cancelled or scaled down due to lack of funds.
But tight budgets boost the argument in favour of submarines, Wezeman said.
“If a war comes along, a small investment in submarines can give your enemy a very big headache,” he said, calling the vessels “an extremely useful weapon for the underdog in a naval war”.
Another reason to keep subs on line is that if a country gives them up it is slow and costly to start again from zero, he said.
“They’re the only ship that’s meant to sink. So they need a whole different, highly specialised type of training that can only be kept up through practice,” Wezeman added.


AMSTERDAM (Reuters) - Dutch politicians gave each other high-fives when they won a contest to host the European Medicines Agency last month, but not everyone in the capital is celebrating the expected influx of highly-paid pharmaceutical experts.
Amsterdam’s residents and media, already sick of the numbers of tourists searching out stag-do strip joints on their streets, are increasingly vexed about another group of visitors - white-collar, expatriate workers.
“A Nice Brexit Trophy, But Can The City Handle It?” newspaper NRC Handelsblad said in a headline, referring to the decision to move the regulatory agency from London to Amsterdam after Britain leaves the EU.
The EMA will come with around 900 staff - a wonderful economic boost, according to supporters of the move. Detractors say it’s just another group of foreigners with big pay packets driving up rents and property prices.
“Home Buyers Will Pay The Price For Drugs Agency In Amsterdam,” said national broadcaster NOS.
On social media, many also mourned the death of the city’s free-wheeling and edgy spirit, killed off, they said, by the likes of the EMA’s army of bureaucrats.
The sanitation of Amsterdam has been going on for more than a decade.
Advertising campaigns have focused on the city’s canals, the Anne Frank House, the museums packed with Van Gogh and Rembrandt’s greatest works.
Legislators have helped the re-branding by shuttering a third of the city’s brothels in 2008 and starting a programme to close marijuana cafes near schools in 2011.
“AN OPEN CITY”
The number of overnight tourists nearly doubled from 2011 to 2016, according to Amsterdam Marketing. Amsterdam and its 850,000 residents now welcome more than 6 million foreign tourists a year.
That has all coincided with a surge in the number of well-heeled expatriates - numbers have also doubled to 77,000 in 2015 from 39,000 in 2009, according to the city’s statistics office.
“Amsterdam has always been an open city,” said Reinier van Dantzig, leader of the largest faction in city parliament from the centrist D-66 party.
Immigrants were an integral part of the city’s 17th-Century golden age and were continuing to contribute to the current economic boom, he added.
“That’s why I have such difficulty with people who say that people from outside who want to become Amsterdammers would be some kind of danger - I think they’re an addition.”
The city, he said, was building housing for 70,000 more people, with extra space allotted to apartments for low and medium-income families.
Too little, too late for Danielle van Diemen, a 5th-generation Amsterdammer.
“The city is being defined by a mix of Western foreigners who think that Amsterdam is edgy but that’s no longer true,” she said, pointing to a ban on squatting that went into effect in 2010.
The gap between wealthy expats who don’t speak Dutch and locals is all but unbridgeable, she added. “So: expats go home and leave the city to us.”
“I am like a visitor in my own neighbourhood,” said Bert Nap, who lives near the centre. “We have lost all our bakers and other shops to tourism-orientated shops,” he added, echoing complaints across Europe’s holiday hotspots.
A survey by apartment-searching website Nestpick in April ranked Amsterdam #1 on its global list of best cities for millennials, citing its tolerance, night life and thriving startup scene.
“These people have qualifications, they have skills, they are networked, and so the fact is that they compete for houses and jobs with people who don’t have those qualifications,” said Jan Rath, a sociology professor at the University of Amsterdam.
“You could argue that what’s happening ... is actually a replacement of the population” he said.
HOUSING MARKET “BOILED DRY”
Real estate prices have soared, leading to a squeeze on unskilled workers, whether they are native Dutch or Turkish and Moroccan immigrants.
According to Statistics Netherlands (CBS), 40 percent of young couples leave the city within four years of having their first child, driven out by the lack of affordable housing.
Resentment also stems from a policy that allows skilled immigrants to receive 30 percent of their income tax-free.
On a salary of 100,000 euros that amounts to 15,000 euros in extra take-home pay for an expat over a Dutch person doing the same job.
Property prices rose 13 percent in the third quarter of 2017 from the same period a year earlier, according to the CBS, above their 2008 highs. Listings have dried up. As one real estate agent put it, the market has “boiled dry”.
Michiel van Hemert, a kitchen assistant, said government priorities were wrong.
“Imagine the ‘economic boom’ that would come from retraining 40 and 50-year-olds, which is clearly needed,” he said.
He recommended more funding for educators, police, nurses and other public servants. “I speak for myself and two or three generations before me.”


BAGHDAD (Reuters) - The United States-led international coalition fighting Islamic State estimates that fewer than 3,000 fighters belonging to the hardline Sunni militant group remain in Iraq and Syria, its spokesman said on Tuesday.
Islamic State’s self-proclaimed caliphate has crumbled this year in Syria and Iraq, with the group losing the cities of Mosul, Raqqa and swathes of other territory.
“Current estimates are that there are less than 3,000 #Daesh fighters left - they still remain a threat, but we will continue to support our partner forces to defeat them,” U.S. Army Colonel Ryan Dillon tweeted, using an Arabic acronym for Islamic State.
Dillon’s tweet was part of his responses to an online question and answer session in which he also said the coalition had trained 125,000 members of Iraqi security forces, 22,000 of which were Kurdish Peshmerga fighters.
When asked if the United States planned to build permanent military bases in Iraq or Syria the defeat of Islamic State, Dillon said it would not. “No - the Government of #Iraq knows where and how many from Coalition are here to support operation to defeat #Daesh; all bases are #Iraqi led,” he tweeted.
The coalition will begin a transition from focussing on retaking territory to consolidating gains, it later said in a statement following a meeting of its leaders with Iraqi military commanders.
“We will continue to support our Iraqi partners in the battle against ISIS (Islamic State) with training, equipment, advice and assistance,” said Major General Felix Gedney, the coalition’s Deputy Commander for Strategy and Support.
“The next phase will focus on the provision of lasting security, while developing Iraqi sustainability and self-sufficiency,” he said.
The coalition was responsible for “liberating more than 4.5 million Iraqis and over 52,200 square kilometres of territory,” the statement said. It has come under fire, however, for the number of civilian casualties resulting from the air strikes it carries out in support of local forces.
The coalition says its strikes have unintentionally killed at least 801 civilians between August 2014 and October 2017, a far lower figure than figures provided by monitoring groups.
The monitoring group Airwars says at least 5,961 civilians have been killed by coalition air strikes.
The coalition says it goes to great lengths to avoid civilian casualties and that it is still assessing 695 reports of such casualties from strikes in Iraq and in Syria.


BRUSSELS (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on Tuesday said the United States remains committed to Europe, offering a public statement of support for European allies worried about foreign policy under President Donald Trump.
“The partnership between America and the European Union... is based upon shared values, shared objectives for security and prosperity on both sides of the Atlantic and we remain committed to that,” Tillerson said before a lunch with 28 EU foreign ministers.
Tillerson, in brief statements with EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini after which the two took no questions, said his visit showed “the strong commitment the U.S. has to the European alliance, the important role that the European alliance plays in our shared security objectives.”


LONDON (Reuters) - The Indian government’s fraud case against tycoon Vijay Mallya is baseless and politically motivated, his defense lawyer told a London court on Tuesday as she battled to prevent his extradition to his home country.
Mallya, who lives in Britain, stands accused in India of fraudulently palming off losses from his now defunct Kingfisher Airlines onto banks by taking out loans he had no intention of repaying.
His defense team argue that he is being used as a scapegoat by Indian politicians of all stripes to deflect public anger at the accumulation of bad debts by state-owned banks.
The 61-year-old, nicknamed “the King of Good Times” after the slogan on bottles of one of his premium beers and his hard partying lifestyle, had business interests ranging from aviation to liquor.
He is also the co-owner of Formula One motor racing team Force India.
The case against him centers on a series of loans Kingfisher obtained from Indian banks, especially state-owned lender IDBI. The banks want to recover a total of about $1.4 billion that the state says the defunct airline owes.
Mallya’s British defense lawyer, Clare Montgomery, told Westminster Magistrates Court that India had made a series of serious allegations against him and others that did not have “a shred of evidence” to back them up.
She also said that the Indian government’s case revealed a “shocking” lack of appreciation of how companies function and of basic realities such as the effects of incorporation and the rights of shareholders.
“Economically and legally, it is impossible to palm off losses onto banks by borrowing to pass on the cost of failure,” she said.
Montgomery said she would call witnesses later in the two-week hearing to give evidence on what she called the “political ramifications” of the case.
She accused several Indian parties including the ruling BJP of “making political capital from the Mallya case on the assumption there was a fraud”.
Montgomery said India’s Central Bureau of Investigation, which is prosecuting the case, had a “long and inglorious history of being politically motivated in the cases it brings”.
She also criticized prison conditions in India, saying that they were worse than in Russia, a country to which British courts have on several occasions refused to extradite suspects for that reason.
Montgomery said there were competing narratives, fraud versus business failure, and that no reasonable jury would be able to reach a safe conclusion that there had been a deliberate intent to defraud.
Mallya, the focus of intense media interest in India, arrived wearing a dark suit and yellow tie and was mobbed by cameramen as he walked into the building.
Inside the courtroom he spoke only to confirm his name and age, before sitting quietly in the glass-walled dock as Montgomery spoke.
She said that the government’s allegation that Mallya had deliberately misled banks by overstating Kingfisher’s projected profits was “a false premise”.
That was because airlines were subject to many unpredictable factors beyond their control, such as fuel cost fluctuations and the global economic climate, so to make entirely accurate projections several years in advance was unrealistic.
The judge, England’s Chief Magistrate Emma Arbuthnot, will have to decide whether there is a prima facie case against Mallya and whether the alleged crimes would be offences in Britain as well as India.


PALERMO, Italy (Reuters) - Police in the Sicilian capital of Palermo scooped up 25 suspected mobsters on an array of charges on Tuesday, including a woman accused of filling in as boss for her imprisoned husband.
More than 200 police, two helicopters and five canine units took part in the early morning roundup of the suspects. They are accused of extortion, handling stolen goods, vandalism and being mafia members, according to the arrest warrant seen by Reuters.
With extensive use of wiretaps and ambient recordings, police reconstructed territorial divisions in the city and the internal power struggle that made Maria Angela Di Trapani, 49, a powerful figure inside one of the city’s historic clans.
Her husband, Salvatore “Salvino eyes of ice” Madonia, who is in jail for murder. Police said she carried messages from her husband to clan members and organised monthly payments to the families of imprisoned mobsters.
She also designated who should be running the mob family’s business, or who should be “acting boss”, on behalf of her husband.
In one wiretap, an accused clan member refers to her as “the mistress of the house”, and the police statement on the arrests said she was the real boss of the Resuttana neighbourhood.
“For all intents and purposes, she acts like a real man,” a turncoat told investigators, according to the court documents.
The Sicilian mafia, or Cosa Nostra, has been hurt by a series of arrests in recent years, weakening the crime network, especially compared to the Calabrian ‘Ndrangheta. With many bosses in jail, their wives have begun to play larger roles.
“While Cosa Nostra has been much weakened by the result of judicial investigations, this case shows the continuing ability to use violence, intimidation, and the mafia code to force business and shop owners to pay extortion,” the warrant reads.
During the two-year investigation, police documented 33 separate crimes and 22 attempts, many successful, to extort shops and businesses, police said.


JERUSALEM (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump informed Palestinian President Mahmolud Abbas on Tuesday that he intends to move the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem, Abbas’s spokesman said.
The statement did not say whether Trump elaborated on the  timing of such a move.
“President Mahmoud Abbas received a telephone call from U.S. President Donald Trump in which he notified the President (Abbas) of his intention to move the American embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem,” spokesman Nabil Abu Rdainah said in a statement.
The statement did not say whether Trump elaborated on the  timing of such a move.
“President Abbas warned of the dangerous consequences such a decision would have to the peace process and to the peace, security and stability of the region and of the world,” Abu Rdainah said.


PARIS (Reuters) - A public body close to France’s health ministry last year advised against the use of a dengue vaccine in the country’s overseas territories that is currently at the centre of a health scare, regulatory documents show.
Concerns surrounding the vaccine, sold by French drugmaker Sanofi under the brand Dengvaxia, have prompted the Philippines to halt its sale and suspend a government programme to immunise hundreds of thousands of children.
The World Health Organization (WHO) said on Tuesday it supported the Philippines’ decision until more information was available.
It said its Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization would meet to review evidence next week.
The WHO, which issued a report identifying the vaccine’s safety risks in mid-2016, recommended it only be used in people who had prior dengue infection.
Documents issued in 2016 by the Haut Conseil de la Sante Publique, a public body close to the French health ministry, show France’s overseas territories were also warned of risks linked to the vaccine.
The health body advised in June 2016 the vaccine not be used in territories such as the Caribbean islands of La Martinique and Guadalupe and French Guiana on the grounds that its effectiveness was not demonstrated with people who had not previously been exposed to the virus.
In October 2016, it also warned of safety risks.
Dengue is a mosquito-borne tropical disease that kills about 20,000 people a year and infects hundreds of millions more.
Brazil, which shares a border with French Guiana, said on Monday it had suggested restrictions on the use of Dengvaxia but not suspended access to the vaccine.
Dengvaxia has been approved in 19 countries and used in 11. It is currently under review by European health regulators.


BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Iraqi federal and Kurdish regional judiciaries are violating the  rights of Islamic State suspects with flawed trials, arbitrary detentions under harsh conditions and broad prosecutions, Human Rights Watch (HRW) said on Tuesday.
As the Sunni Muslim militant group’s self-proclaimed caliphate crumbles following defeats in Iraq and Syria, thousands suspected of joining it have been captured, detained, and put on trial. At least 200 have been sentenced and at least 92 executed, an HRW report said.
Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, at a weekly news conference on Tuesday, denied that Iraq puts Islamic State suspects on trial without evidence but did not address other parts of the HRW report.
His government faces the task of exacting justice on Islamic State members while preventing revenge attacks on people associated with the group that could only undermine efforts to create long-term stability.
New York-based HRW said that an 80-page report it released early on Tuesday “finds serious legal shortcomings that undermine efforts to bring (Islamic State) fighters, members, and affiliates to justice.”
A spokesman for Iraq’s Supreme Judicial Council, which supervises the federal judiciary, declined to comment on the contents of the report ahead of its release.
Issues highlighted by the HRW report:
- It is too easy to accuse someone of belonging to Islamic State and have them detained. Wanted lists or community accusations without evidence can result in the detention of  suspects for months even if wrongly accused.
- Detention centres are overcrowded and authorities fail to separate children from adult detainees. Iraqi law states detainees should be brought to a judge within 24 hours of capture but this does not happen.
- Detainees are often subject to torture, not granted access to lawyers, and their families are not informed of their whereabouts. Iraqi authorities say they have investigated these allegations but have not released any findings.
- The reliance of Iraqi and Kurdish courts on counter terrorism laws to prosecute suspects rather than on laws in the criminal code means crimes are not prioritised by gravity and victims are not included in the process as suspects are not tried for individual acts of murder, rape, torture or slavery.
- Proving guilt under counter-terrorism laws is easier as a judge only needs proof that a defendant was a member of Islamic State to find them guilty. This means that anyone from cooks and doctors serving under the group to actual fighters is subject to the same sentences, which range from life in prison to death.
This stretches Iraq’s resources thin as casting such a wide net means the courts lack the time or manpower to go through all cases, the HRW report says, which prevents victims from getting personal justice.
HRW said that when it raised concerns about prosecutors not charging suspects with crimes under the criminal code, Iraqi judicial authorities said there was no need.
“Genocide and terrorism are the same crime, why would we need a separate charge for genocide?” the report quoted one counter-terrorism judge as saying.


PRAGUE (Reuters) - The Czech Republic should stay close to the European Union’s core and talk of holding a referendum on leaving the bloc is dangerous, presidential candidate Jiri Drahos said in an interview.
Polls show that Drahos, 68, is the main challenger to incumbent Milos Zeman, who has fostered ties with Russia and China while sympathising with far-right and far-left groups and criticising the EU, mainly over its migration policy.
The country held parliamentary elections in October and it will choose a president in January.
“If we want to decide something then we should be at the table where such decisions are taken. I would very much like to see the Czech Republic at the table where Europe’s future is decided,” Drahos told Reuters.
Although Czech presidents have limited powers, their role is crucial in situations like the forming of a new government. Presidents can also sway public opinion and influence foreign policy, though the government exerts daily control.
Zeman says he is an EU-federalist. He has criticised the EU’s Russia sanctions imposed after the annexation of Crimea and has also said he favours a referendum on leaving the EU, though he said he would vote to stay in it.
Drahos, a chemist by training, who has led the Czech Academy of Sciences, said both EU and NATO membership are vital his country.
“To play with the (expression) ‘referendum on leaving the European Union’ is very hazardous,” he said.
Czechs are the least enthusiastic nation when it comes to the EU in the wake of Zeman’s five year presidency and a decade under Vaclav Klaus. A Eurobarometer poll in October showed that only 29 percent of Czechs saw EU membership as a “good thing”.
Drahos said people should be more aware of the EU’s benefits but should criticise where appropriate.
“LET‘S DO TRADE”
He rejected Zeman’s warm stance towards Russia and China and said Czech foreign policy should be more self-confident.
“Let’s do trade, but let’s do it in a self-confident way. We are a small country but that does not mean that we have to cringe,” he said.
A November poll commissioned by news website www.seznam.cz news website showed Zeman, 73, as the most likely winner of the first round on Jan. 12-13 ahead of Drahos. But it predicted a dead heat in any run-off vote to be held Jan 26-27.
The next president will most likely need to cooperate with a government chaired by billionaire Andrej Babis whose ANO party won the October election and is building a minority cabinet.
Zeman, who backs Babis, plans to appoint Babis’s cabinet on Dec. 13. Babis will face an uncertain confidence vote but may be in office for months with Zeman’s consent even if he loses.
Initial votes in the new parliament showed cooperation among ANO, Communists and the SPD party which campaigned with anti-EU, anti-immigrant and anti-Islam agenda.
Drahos said that if elected, he would be watching for any attempts to sway the country away from standard democratic path.
“I would be a professional, but I would be on guard, because a government leaning on undemocratic parties creates a concern at least that our democracy could be in danger,” he said.


MADRID/MONTREAL (Reuters) - A flight by businesses from Catalonia’s independence crisis has drawn comparisons with Quebec, the French-speaking Canadian province that deterred investors with a decades-long independence push.
Opinion polls showed support for pro-independence parties at just under 50 percent as campaigning for a Dec. 21 election began on Tuesday, enough to dampen the Madrid government’s hopes the vote would end a volatile standoff over secession.
“Carrying on as before means chaos,” said Jordi Alberich, managing director of Cercle d‘Economia, a business association based in the Catalan capital, Barcelona. “What has happened is tremendously serious and it could get even worse.”
The election is seen by pro-independence parties as a de-facto referendum on a split from Spain following a banned plebiscite which led to clashes between Spanish police and protesters on Oct 1 and the subsequent dismissal of the Catalan government by Madrid.
While it may not propel secessionist forces back into regional government, it could end up sustaining their cause and thereby putting off investors over the longer term.
Almost 3,000 firms have shifted their headquarters outside the region, many to Madrid, mirroring the flight of companies from Quebec’s capital, Montreal, for Toronto before and after its first referendum in 1980 delivered defeat for independence.
The Catalan exodus has so far been administrative rather than physical, with companies effectively shifting domiciles, the ‘brass plate’ of the business, to avoid legal and tax complications rather than moving staff or operations.
They fear secession would leave them outside the euro zone and exposed to the uncertain policies and possible tax grabs of a new republic burdened by the region’s existing large debts.
Madrid, eager for unionist parties to score a clear victory on Dec. 21 and put the crisis to rest, says the economic impact will be only short term, but there are signs the uncertainty is already affecting longer-term investment decisions.
“If I had been contacted by an American investor asking: ‘Should I open a small office in Barcelona?’ three or four years ago, I would have said: ‘Yes, of course’,” said the Spain country head for an international investment bank.
“Now I can’t say that anymore ... The pain inflicted by the independence process scares money away.”   
He, like other bankers and chief executives, declined to speak publicly because the issue is divisive. Those who speak out for one side or other can become targets of criticism and abuse.
The Spanish government has already trimmed its 2018 economic growth forecast to 2.3 percent due to the Catalan crisis, and its Independent Authority of Fiscal Responsibility has warned of a bigger impact next year if it is not resolved.
Tourism to the region and its main draw card, Barcelona, has slumped, leading to Spain’s first fall in retail sales for more than three years.
Spain’s economy minister recently noted a “strong deceleration” in Catalonia in the final quarter, and the central bank published an analysis last month based on scenarios that implied impacts ranging from modest to dramatic.
In the worst case, it said political uncertainty could cut economic growth by 2.5 percentage points between end-2017 and 2019.
In a recent report, “Catalonia, history repeating?”, Canadian bank RBC Capital Markets compared it with the fallout from Quebec’s 1995 referendum, which delivered the narrowest of defeats for independence and was followed by economic decline.
"Even if the independence parties fall short of a majority, the damage may have already been done," it said of Catalonia's December vote. Graphic tmsnrt.rs/2AGBazV
The Spanish region’s pro-independence camp says it pays more than its fair share of tax income out of the country’s 17 regions and during the five-year economic crisis its stronger economy propped up poorer areas such as Andalusia and Murcia.
The biggest pro-independence party, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya (ERC), has dismissed government warnings secession would cause economic damage and launched its campaign focusing on social issues like housing and energy poverty.
Quebec’s independence movement, triggered by the 1960s push by French-speakers for economic equality, led to a decline in the province’s English-speaking population and its economic affluence, with banks and companies moving their head offices from Montreal, then a thriving financial hub.
Canada’s second-most populous province has made economic strides in recent years, but it continues to lag other provinces in indicators like household income.
Between 1970 and 1981, as pro-sovereignty Parti Quebecois gained political momentum, Montreal lost 18,992 head offices in resource, manufacturing and service sectors, according to a 1983 University of Saskatchewan study. Canada’s largest life insurance company was among those which left in 1977.
Politics was not the only factor. Montreal’s older manufacturing economy was already facing competition from Toronto.
“The relative decline of Montreal – and the exodus of headquarters – was no doubt exacerbated by politics but was not solely caused by politics,” said Richard Shearmur, a professor at McGill University’s school of urban planning in Montreal.
The Catalan crisis has drawn interest in Quebec: last week, two members of Catalonia’s secessionist Candidatura d‘Unitat Popular (CUP) party spoke at an event organised by a left-leaning Quebec opposition party.
But Quebec polls show support for separation, especially among young adults, is in decline, while in Catalonia polls show pro-independence parties continue to command strong support.
The last Catalan government was made up of a coalition of pro-independence parties under the name ‘Together for Yes’, propped up by CUP lawmakers who did not join the government’s ranks. Opinion polls show pro-independence and pro-unity parties almost in a dead heat for December’s election.
Graphic - Catalonia election: tmsnrt.rs/2AGBazV


BERLIN (Reuters) - Police raided apartments across Germany on Tuesday, hunting for evidence on anti-capitalist protesters who clashed with officers during July’s Group of 20 leaders summit in Hamburg.
Officers searched 23 properties believed to be used by “Black Bloc” anti-capitalist group in eight German states, the Hamburg force said. They seized 26 computers and 36 mobile phones, but made no arrests.
Around  200 police officers were hurt in July in scuffles with the left-wing group, named after its members’ black hoods and masks.
Police described how 150-200 people separated themselves off from peaceful marches, donned scarves, masks and dark glasses, then grabbed stones from the pavement and projectiles from building sites to hurl at police.
“We are talking about a violent mob, acting together ... Whoever participates in this is, in our view, making themselves culpable,” Jan Hieber, head of the police Special Commission, told reporters.
“The militant action was not accidental. There must have been a degree of planning and agreement,” he said.
Police said nearly 600 officers raided properties in states from Hamburg and Berlin to western North Rhine-Westphalia and southern Baden-Wuerttemberg.
They also carried out searches in the southern city of Stuttgart and Goettingen in northern Germany - home to well-known centres of left-wing activism.


LONDON (Reuters) - British Prime Minister Theresa May told senior ministers on Tuesday that she expects to reconvene Brexit talks with the European union later this week.
May told ministers that Britain and the EU were very close to an agreement though a small number of issues were outstanding, her spokesman said.
“The PM said intensive work had been taking place in recent weeks and the UK and European Commission were very close to getting agreement with only a small number of issues outstanding,” the spokesman said. “The PM said she expected to reconvene talks with the commission later this week.”


LONDON (Reuters) - Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said he expected Britain and the European Union to progress soon into the next phase of Brexit negotiations, despite Prime Minister Theresa May’s problems in getting the political backing at home to move ahead.     “I am absolutely convinced that, as soon as possible, we will get into the second phase of Brexit negotiations,” Rajoy said in a meeting with May in London on Tuesday.
May failed to clinch a deal on Monday to open talks on post-Brexit free trade with the EU after a tentative agreement with Dublin to keep the bloc’s rules in Northern Ireland angered her allies in Belfast, the Democratic Unionist Party.


BUCHAREST (Reuters) - Romania’s former King Michael, who played a part in ousting a Nazi-backed leader during World War Two but was subsequently forced into exile by a Communist takeover, died in Switzerland on Tuesday at the age of 96, the Royal House said.
Born in 1921 in the Carpathian mountains, Michael was one of Europe’s last surviving wartime heads of state who spent decades in exile during the Cold War, withdrawing from public life in 2016 because of severe illness.
A descendant of the German Hohenzollern dynasty and a cousin of Britain’s Queen Elizabeth, Michael underwent surgery for leukaemia and cancer and died at his residence in Aubonne on lake Geneva, though his entourage did not give a cause of death.
“His Majesty King Michael I ceased life today at 1 p.m Romanian time at his private residence in Switzerland,” the Royal House said in a statement.
His body will lie in state in his Carpathian mountains’ Peles castle and later in Bucharest before his burial in the city of Curtea de Arges.
The king, while only in his early 20s, played a major part in switching Romania away from a wartime alliance with the Nazis, participating in a 1944 coup that overthrew the fascist leader Marshal Ion Antonescu. Romania then broke with Nazi Germany and switched to the Allied side.
But he was forced to abdicate in 1947 after the Communist takeover. He was stripped of his citizenship and forced to live in exile in Switzerland for decades.
After communist dictator Nicolae Ceausescu was overthrown and executed in 1989, politicians, fearing a surge of support for Michael in the country, blocked his first few attempted visits after decades of exile in Switzerland, Britain and the United States.
In the early 1990s, with the Cold War over, the government sent tanks to stop him from touring Romania.
Relations improved and he finally returned to Romania in 1992 and regained citizenship in 1997 after then reformist President Emil Constantinescu took over from the Moscow-educated former communist Ion Iliescu.
But while Michael enjoyed some popularity a solid movement to restore the monarchy in Romania never took off.
President Klaus Iohannis announced on Tuesday that a day of mourning would be called, telling reporters: “King Michael marked Romania’s history in big letters.”


VIENNA (Reuters) - Same-sex couples will be allowed to marry in Austria from 2019, the country’s supreme court ruled on Tuesday and said a law to the contrary violated the principle of non-discrimination.
The move brings Austria into line with many other European nations including Germany, France, Britain and Spain.
It also comes at a time when stories of sexual harassment under the #MeToo hashtag have flooded social media, sparking a  rethink of attitudes towards sexual discrimination.
“Today is a truly historic day,” said lawyer Helmut Graupner, who represented the two female plaintiffs in court.
“Austria is the first European country to recognise marriage equality for same-gender couples as a fundamental human right. All the other European states with marriage equality introduced it (just) the political way,” he said in a Facebook post.
Austria’s constitutional court examined a 2009 law that allows registered partnerships for same-sex couples but prevents them from getting married. It acted at the request of two women who were rejected by two lower authorities.
The distinction between marriage and registered partnership can no longer be upheld without discriminating against same-sex couples, the court said in a statement.
“The resulting discriminatory effect is seen in the fact that ... people living in same-sex partnerships have to disclose their sexual orientation even in situations, in which it is not and must not be relevant, and ... are highly likely to be discriminated against,” the court said in its ruling.
The conservative People’s Party (OVP), who’s leader Sebastian Kurz is expected to be sworn in as chancellor next month, said it will accept the ruling.
The far-right Freedom Party (FPO), Kurz’s chosen government coalition partner criticized the ruling.
“Now there is equal treatment for something that’s not equal,” said Herbert Kickl, FPO General Secretary, in a statement. A marriage between women and men needs protection as only these partnerships can create children, he said.
The OVP and the FPO voted against same-sex marriage in parliament a few months ago.
The court decision comes days after French President Emmanuel Macron unveiled a plan to curb violence against women and weeks after Scotland apologised to gay men for historical convictions.
The Homosexual Initiative Vienna (HOSI) welcomed the court’s decision. “We are very happy,” said HOSI chairman Christian Hoegl. “We want to use the opportunity for a renewed call for a fundamental reform of marriage.”
Same-sex marriage is legal in 25 countries. Australia aims to pass a law to this effect early next month after 62 percent of voters favoured marriage equality in a national survey.
In Germany, women and men are allowed to wed to a same sex partner since October. The first country to legalise same-sex marriage was the Netherlands in 2001.


Karachi, Pakistan (Reuters) - A Pakistani peace activist has been reported missing over the weekend from eastern city of Lahore, police and one of his friends said on Tuesday.
Raza Mehmood Khan, 40, a member of Aghaz-i-Dosti  (Start of Friendship), a group that works on peace building between arch-rivals Pakistan and India, hasn’t been heard from since he left  home on Sunday, said Rahim-ul-Haq, a friend and an associate.
He said the group has offices in both countries.
Police official Shehzad Raza said Khan’s family reported he had been missing since Saturday. No one has been accused in the report, he said. “We’re investigating.”
Several social media activists critical of the army and the country’s extremists and militant groups have gone missing in Pakistan in recent months.
Four of them were released nearly a month after they disappeared early this year. Two of them - Ahmad Waqas Goraya and Asim Saeed _ later alleged in interviews with BBC and their social media posts that Pakistani intelligence abducted and tortured them in custody.
Pakistan’s army has denied the accusations.
Haq said Khan spoke at a discussion on Saturday on the topic of extremism. “Everyone discussed their views and, of course, Raza was very critical,” he said.
He said that Raza’s recent Facebook posts were critical of Pakistani military, especially in view of a recent sit-in protest by hard-liners that paralysed Islamabad for over two weeks.
The extremists won almost all of their demands, including resignation of a minister they accused of blasphemy, in an agreement brokered by the army.


JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South Africa’s deputy president got the majority of nominations to become leader of the ruling African National Congress, but the complexity of the leadership race means it’s far from certain he will become the next party leader and therefore the likely next president.
Cyril Ramaphosa won around 55 percent of nominations from  the party branches that will send delegates to an ANC conference this month. His main rival, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, got most of the rest, according to a Reuters tally.
A majority of nominations, however, is not the same as the most votes at the conference, which analysts say is a two-horse race between Ramaphosa and Dlamini-Zuma, a former cabinet minister and ex-wife of President Jacob Zuma.
The ANC’s electoral dominance means whoever wins the party’s top job is likely become the next president of South Africa.
Ramaphosa is considered the most market-friendly candidate, and signs his campaign is doing well have driven a rally in South African assets in recent weeks. But determining who will become ANC leader is still an inexact science.
Depending on the size of their membership, ANC branches from the country’s nine provinces will send different numbers of delegates to the conference, which opens on Dec. 16. Each branch gets one delegate for its first 100 members, with another delegate added for every additional 250 members.
Dlamini-Zuma has tended to win more nominations in provinces with larger ANC branches, but there is no verifiable way of calculating the number of delegates that candidates will have on their side at the conference. And in any case, delegates are not bound to vote for the candidate their ANC branch nominated.
Frans Cronje, chief executive of the Johannesburg-based Institute of Race Relations, estimated delegate support for Ramaphosa at the conference could vary from 50 percent to 60 percent, depending on the assumptions made.
Those assumptions include the ratio between branch nominations and delegates and whether the kingmaker province of Mpumalanga - the second-largest in terms of ANC membership, which is on the fence - sides with Ramaphosa or Dlamini-Zuma.
“The data we have point to a Ramaphosa victory, yet we are hesitant to call the race in his favour,” Cronje said.
ZUMA‘S INFLUENCE?
Adding another level of complexity, the nominations tally is still being revised. Some disgruntled ANC members have launched court cases and some branches are re-running the meetings where nominations for party leader are made.
On Tuesday, officials in KwaZulu-Natal province - which will send the most conference delegates - published revised voting data that gave 21 additional nominations to Dlamini-Zuma, who has majority support from the area.
How the roughly 5,000 delegates will vote is also subject to vote-buying and intimidation - which are widely acknowledged to have swayed previous leadership contests but whose influence is difficult to quantify.
Branches account for 90 percent of the conference delegates. The remainder comes from the ANC’s women‘s, youth and veterans leagues, as well as a handful of provincial ANC officials.
It is unclear exactly how the leagues will vote, though the leaders of the youth and women’s leagues have publicly backed Dlamini-Zuma.
Finally, Ramaphosa has to contend with incumbent leader Zuma’s control of large sections of the ANC, and Zuma has backed the candidacy of Dlamini-Zuma.
“Zuma can still deliver victory to Dlamini-Zuma,” said independent political analyst Ralph Mathekga. “He controls the levers of the party and can influence how delegates vote.”


STOCKHOLM (Reuters) - Support for the far-right, anti-immigration Sweden Democrats party has fallen to its lowest level since surging during the migration crisis of 2015, a government poll showed on Tuesday.
The Sweden Democrats’ approval rating shot to nearly 20 percent in November 2015 after hundreds of thousands of people arrived in Sweden to seek asylum.
But a stricter immigration policy has led to a big reduction in numbers, and the issue has slipped from the top of the political agenda.
Support for the Sweden Democrats stood at 14.8 percent in November, compared to 18.4 percent in June, Sweden’s Statistics Office found in its twice yearly poll for which it interviewed  9,000 people between Oct. 27 and Nov. 28.
The government, comprised of the Social Democrats and Greens, had a 36.4 percent approval rating, compared with 35.6 percent in the June poll.
Prime Minister Stefan Lofven has wooed voters with a pledge to boost spending by almost 44 billion crowns ($5.23 billion) in the budget for 2018 with much of the money going on welfare, education and the police.
“Immigration is no longer dominating the political debate in Sweden,” Jonas Hinnfors, political scientist at Gothenburg University said.
Together with the Left Party, which supports the coalition in parliament, the government has 43.4 percent support, up from 41.9 percent in June.
At its current level of support, the Sweden Democrats would still have enough clout to block either the centre-left or centre-right blocs from forming a government after the next election in September 2018, should they fail to reach a majority.
The Sweden Democrats, shunned by all the major parties due to their far-right roots, have said they would help vote down either a centre-left or centre-right coalition in 2018, making it unclear how either bloc will be able to form a government.


MANILA/LONDON (Reuters) - The Philippines has ordered French drugmaker Sanofi to stop the sale, distribution and marketing of its Dengvaxia dengue vaccine in the country after the company last week warned it could worsen the disease in some cases.
The order comes days after the Southeast Asian nation suspended a government programme to immunize hundreds of thousands of children with Dengvaxia following Sanofi’s findings released last week. Sanofi shares slid more than 1 percent on Tuesday to a 10-month low.
"In order to protect the general public, the Food and Drug Administration immediately directed Sanofi to suspend the sale/distribution/marketing of Dengvaxia and cause the withdrawal of Dengvaxia in the market pending compliance with the directives of the FDA," the Philippine government agency said in a statement on its website released late on Monday. bit.ly/2je0L8Y
The World Health Organisation said on Tuesday it supported the decision by the Philippines to suspend vaccinations with Dengvaxia until more information was available. It said its Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization would meet to review evidence next week.
“Like many others in the Philippines, WHO is awaiting the expert analysis of new data and advice about its implications for use of the vaccine,” the WHO said in a statement on its website.
The Philippine Food and Drug Administration also directed Sanofi to conduct an information dissemination campaign and said all drug establishments should report any incidents if the vaccine was suspected to have caused any deaths or serious illnesses.
Sanofi said the risk of severe dengue occurring in previously uninfected people who were inoculated with Dengvaxia was about two in 1,000 and these individuals recovered with treatment.
“Only one in 800 of all dengue infections (including symptomless infections) could lead to a severe infection, and the increased risk identified from the new analysis translated to two additional cases of ‘severe dengue’ out of 1,000 previously dengue-uninfected people vaccinated over five years of follow-up,” the company said in an emailed statement.
“In this group, all fully recovered with proper medical treatment.”
Sanofi officials said on Monday in Manila that there had been no reported deaths related to the vaccine which was used to immunize nearly 734,000 children aged 9 and over in the Philippines.
They have received at least one dose of the vaccine as part of a government programme that cost 3.5 billion pesos (51.41 million pounds).
One 12-year old girl in Tarlac province, north of the capital Manila, who completed the three-dose vaccine treatment, showed symptoms of severe dengue, Health Undersecretary Gerardo Bayugo told Reuters by phone.
The Department of Health has recommended that she be moved to a Manila hospital for closer monitoring, but Bayugo said she had shown signs of improvement with her platelet count recovering.
Dengvaxia, the first approved dengue vaccine, had been forecast by Sanofi to eventually bring in nearly $1 billion in annual sales.
But even recent more modest analysts’ sales forecasts are now looking unattainable given the safety issue and clinical evidence revealing unequal protection against different strains of dengue.
The WHO said on Monday it hoped to review safety data this month on Sanofi’s dengue vaccine which the company said was approved in 19 countries and launched in 11.
Most sales have come from the Philippines through its government immunization programme, and Brazil, where the state of Parana has seen a three-fold increase in dengue in the past few years.
Dengue is a mosquito-borne tropical disease that kills about 20,000 people a year and infects hundreds of millions.


KUWAIT (Reuters) - Qatar’s Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani said he hopes that a Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) summit set to convene in Kuwait on Tuesday would help maintain stability and security in the Gulf region, according to the Doha-based Al-Jazeera TV channel.
Tamim, whose country is under trade and diplomatic sanctions imposed by some GCC members, also acknowledged that the summit comes at a sensitive time for the six-member alliance founded nearly 40 years ago, according to Al-Jazeera.
Tamim and the host country’s ruler, Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber al-Sabah are the only two heads of state set to attend the meeting, with the four other countries being represented by ministers or deputy prime ministers.


KIEV (Reuters) - Ukraine is not considering extraditing former Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili because his detention on Tuesday is related to alleged crimes against Ukraine, General Prosecutor Yuriy Lutsenko said in a press conference.
“What’s next? Currently it’s not a matter of deportation or extradition (to Georgia), it’s a matter of questioning the suspect about a particularly serious crime,” he said.
Earlier on Tuesday, Saakashvili, who has reinvented himself as an opposition leader in Ukraine, was detained by masked police officers in Kiev on suspicion of assisting a criminal organisation.


SYDNEY (Reuters) - Several lawmakers filed family history documents in Australia’s parliament to meet a government deadline on Tuesday to try to prove their citizenship and stem a crisis that has so far claimed nine MPs and cost the government its majority.
Australia’s 116-year-old constitution bans dual citizens from holding national office and the High Court adopted a strict interpretation of it in October in a country where half the population were either born overseas or have a parent who was.
The crisis may yet plunge Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull’s Liberal-National coalition into minority rule, should it lose another lawmaker, or a crucial by-election set for Dec. 19.
The ruling centre-right pairing lost its one-seat lower-house majority when the High Court found Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce to be a New Zealander and therefore ineligible for office. He has since rescinded his New Zealand citizenship and regained his seat in parliament.     
    But another member has since quit his place and now as many as a dozen more now face referral to the court after the deadline to disclose the birthplace of parents and grandparents passed on Tuesday.
The disclosures show that nearly every lawmaker has at least one foreign parent or grandparent. While some provide citizenship records dating back to the 19th century, others give few details or documents, prompting calls for the High Court to consider their cases.
“There are a few grey areas, there’s no doubt about that,” MP Christopher Pyne said on Perth radio station 6PR, adding that parliament would decide on Thursday which cases to send to the court.
One opposition Labor Party member has already told parliament it “remains unclear” whether he is British, after the Home Office could not find the paperwork to prove he renounced his citizenship a decade ago.
Labor argues that seven government lawmakers filed “unconvincing” or “incomplete” disclosures, while the government raised doubts over four opposition MPs, and there is a cloud over another independent lawmaker.
Although Joyce easily regained his seat at a by-election on Saturday, the crisis still has the government precariously clinging to power and has already dented its ability to pursue its political agenda.
If it loses a by-election in Sydney on Dec. 19, or the court ousts another lower-house MP, it would be forced to depend on a handful of independent lawmakers to retain power and pass laws.


ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish police have detained 17 people as part of an investigation related to gold trader Reza Zarrab, who is cooperating with prosecutors in a U.S. trial, state-run Anadolu news agency said on Tuesday.
Police detained three of Zarrab’s employees on suspicion of delivering documents from the network of Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen to U.S. prosecutors, Anadolu said.
Ankara says U.S. prosecutors have based their case on documents fabricated by Gulen’s followers, who it also blames for orchestrating last year’s failed coup in Turkey.
Zarrab, a Turkish and Iranian national, has pleaded guilty to charges that he schemed to help Iran evade U.S. sanctions, and is testifying for U.S. prosecutors against an executive from a Turkish state-owned bank for related charges.
The executive has pleaded innocent and the bank has said all of its transactions complied with international regulations.
The case has strained ties between the United States and Turkey, both members of the NATO military alliance. It has infuriated President Tayyip Erdogan, who has cast the trial as an attempt to undermine Turkey and its economy.
“It is right that there is a plot allegation in the trial’s indictment, but it is a plot against Turkey, not against the United States,” Erdogan told members of his ruling AK Party in parliament.
“This trial is an international coup attempt, a process at the centre of which is FETO,” he said, using the Turkish government’s term for Gulen’s network. Gulen, who has lived in the United States since 1999, has denied charges he was behind the coup, and condemned the military intervention.
Police searched the houses of the three employees and found electronic copies of documents, Anadolu said. It said fourteen more people had been detained as part of the investigation.
No one was immediately available for comment at Istanbul police headquarters.
Last week the Istanbul prosecutor’s office decided to seize the assets of Zarrab and those of his acquaintances as part of the investigation, Anadolu reported.


TOKYO (Reuters) - The International Union for Conservation of Nature said on Tuesday it had changed the status of the Irrawaddy dolphin and finless porpoise, both living in Asian waters, to “endangered” from “vulnerable”, meaning they are closer to extinction.
In the latest update of its closely watched Red List of threatened species, the environmental group also moved Australia’s western ringtail possum by two notches from “vulnerable” to “critically endangered”.
The re-evaluation of the status of the two aquatic mammals comes after the numbers of Irrawaddy dolphin more than halved over the past 60 years, and over the past 45 years for the finless porpoise, the group said.
“These species live in shallow waters near shore and both have populations confined to freshwater systems, and that makes them extremely vulnerable to human activities,” Craig Hilton-Taylor, head of the group’s Red List unit, told reporters.
“In the Mekong River, for example, the majority of Irrawaddy dolphin deaths in recent years have been caused by entanglement in gill nets. These nets hang like curtains of deaths across the river,” he said.
As for western ringtail possums, Australia’s increasingly dry and hot climate had led to a decline of more than 80 percent in their numbers over the past decade, the group said.
“The threats pushing species to extinction come from us, from humans ... This also means that we can do something about it,” Hilton-Taylor said.


CAIRO (Reuters) - Former Egyptian interior minister Habib al-Adly has been arrested after failing to attend his sentencing in a trial over corruption charges, two security sources said on Tuesday.
Adly, who served under ousted Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, was due to attend the final hearing in April and hand himself over to authorities, but did not show up and had been missing since then.
A copy of the April verdict obtained by Reuters showed that Adly and two other ministry officials were ordered to refund a total of 1.95 billion Egyptian pounds($109.83 million) and were fined the same amount.
Adly, who has denied the charges, is due back before the Court of Cassation, Egypt’s top civil court, for an appeal in January.
His lawyer could not be reached immediately for comment.
Egypt’s state news agency MENA earlier reported that Adly had been located, but did not disclose his location or whether he had been arrested.
A long-serving official at the head of Egypt’s feared internal security apparatus, Adly was acquitted of other graft charges two years ago.
He was also cleared in 2014, along with Mubarak and six aides, of charges related to killing protesters during the 2011 uprising which had led to their downfall.


KARANGASEM, Indonesia (Reuters) - The question Indonesian volcanologist Devy Kamil Syahbana gets most is the one he cannot answer - when, or if, rumbling Mount Agung on Bali island will blow up in a major eruption.
The 3,000 metre (9,800 ft) Agung - a so-called strato-volcano capable of very violent eruptions - has recorded a sharp rise in activity that has raised worries about a repeat of a 1963 eruption that killed more than 1,000 people.
“There’s no instrument in the world that can estimate precisely when there will be a major eruption,” said Syahbana, who runs an observatory monitoring the towering volcano, just outside a 10-km exclusion zone.
Sensors beeped and walkie-talkies crackled he spoke to Reuters at the monitoring station.
“People expect certainty but volcanology is a science of probability,” he said pointing to charts showing dramatic fluctuations in the seismic activity deep under Agung.
Authorities raised the alert status to the maximum after the volcano started erupting last month, spewing out ash over the holiday island and causing travel chaos by closing its airport for three days last week.
While hot magma has produced an eerie orange glow just above the crater, and thousands of villagers have fled from their homes on the mountain’s slopes, Agung has, this time, yet to explode violently.
Syahbana, who studied volcanology in Brussels and Paris, said his team’s main job was to “increase the preparedness of the communities here in the event of a major eruption”.
He said safety was his priority, never mind that raising the alert level has spooked residents and tourists alike.
Syahbana said he had not come under any pressure to lower the alert, though his team was “aware of the costs” for Indonesia’s main tourist destination famous for its beaches and temples.
‘NO RECORDS’
Indonesia has nearly 130 active volcanoes, more than any other country.
Syahbana has surveyed and installed instruments on many of the most active ones, including Mount Merapi on Java island, to the west of Bali, and on Mount Sinabung in the north of Sumatra island.
His team of 16 scientists takes six-hour shifts to monitor seismic stations on Agung that record tremors deep inside the mountain, GPS trackers that record changes in land features and CCTV cameras that provide 24-hour surveillance.
“The difference between other volcanoes and Mount Agung is that there are no scientific records about previous eruptions here, only people’s experiences,” Syahbana said.In 1963, pyroclastic flows of lava and rocks poured out of the volcano, killing more than 1,000 people and razing dozens of villages.
According to survivors, that eruption was preceded by earthquakes, volcanic mudflows, and ashfall – all signs that Mount Agung is showing again now, said Syahbana.
This time, with the internet and live feeds on social media, experts around the world are watching the smouldering Agung.
U.S.-based volcanologist Janine B. Krippner has been closely following since the alert status was first raised to the highest in September, and uses Twitter to share official information and bust myths and hoaxes circulating online.    An eruption is “usually a good time for the volcanology community to pull together and share their knowledge”, she said.
”But I’ve never seen it happen on this scale before. It’s partly due to social media and partly because it’s a small and supportive community anyway,” Krippner, who has also remotely monitored eruptions in Iceland, Hawaii and Chile, said by telephone.
With every passing day, and no big eruption, a danger is that a false sense of security creeps in. Syahbana and other experts said everyone has to stay on alert.
“We know this can be a very dangerous eruption,” Krippner said.
“We shouldn’t be complacent.”


HELSINKI/MOSCOW (Reuters) - Finland’s defence ministry said on Tuesday it suspected a Russian aircraft had violated Finnish airspace over the Baltic Sea earlier in the day.
The ministry said a Tupolev TU-154, a Russian passenger and transport plane, had been detected south of Porvoo and that the border guard was investigating the matter.
A ministry spokesman declined to say whether Finland had scrambled jets to identify the plane. The Russian defence ministry was not immediately available to comment.
Finland, which is preparing to celebrate 100 years of independence on Wednesday, has accused Moscow of several airspace violations since the Ukraine crisis began in 2014.
Last year, Estonia and Finland blamed Russia for entering their airspace as Finland was signing a defence pact with the United States. In a separate incident, two Russian warplanes flew simulated attack passes near a U.S. guided missile destroyer in the Baltic Sea.
Finland was part of the Russian Empire and won independence during the 1917 Russian revolution, then nearly lost it fighting the Soviet Union in World War Two. It is now an EU member state which does not belong to NATO military alliance.


MANILA (Reuters) - Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has ordered the police to actively support the drugs enforcement agency in his anti-narcotics war, his spokesman said on Tuesday, citing a resurgence in illegal drugs.
The Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency, or PDEA, will remain the lead agency in the fight against drugs, but the spokesman, Harry Roque, said the police along with other agencies “shall resume to provide active support to PDEA,” citing a memorandum signed by Duterte.
Duterte initially suspended the police’s anti-narcotics operations in January, after questions at home and abroad were raised about police conduct.
But he reinstated them five weeks later, arguing that drugs were pouring back to the streets, but then pulled them off the campaign again in October and made the PDEA the sole agency in charge of the anti-drug campaign.
Police say nearly 4,000 people have been killed in their anti-drug operations.
Human rights groups and political opponents say executions of drug users and small-time peddlers have been widespread, but police insist those killed were all dealers who put up violent resistance.
Police have rejected criticism and cite 117,000 arrests as proof that they take suspects in alive. They also deny links to at least 2,000 unsolved street killings of drug users.
Since the PDEA took the lead on Oct. 11, Roque said only one drug suspect had been killed in the course of anti-drug operations. The drug enforcement agency has only a fraction of the manpower of the 190,000-strong police.
Roque, reading from an order issued by Duterte, said the PDEA “has been seriously hampered in performing its huge mandate by the lack of resources specifically agents and operatives who can penetrate drug infested areas”.


GENEVA (Reuters) - Myanmar told the United Nations on Tuesday that it was finalising terms for a joint working group with Bangladesh that will launch the process of safe and voluntary return of hundreds of thousands of Rohingya refugees within about two months.
Htin Lynn, Myanmar’s ambassador to the U.N. in Geneva, told a special session of the Human Rights Council that his government was ready to work with all international partners to ensure the “voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable repatriation” and resettlement of the displaced - whom he did not refer to as Rohingya.
“There will be no camps,” he added.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Germans see U.S. President Donald Trump as a bigger challenge for German foreign policy than authoritarian leaders in North Korea, Russia or Turkey, according to a survey by the Koerber Foundation.
Topping the list of foreign policy concerns were refugees, with 26 percent of respondents worried about Germany’s ability to cope with inflows of asylum seekers.
Relations with Trump and the United States ranked second,  with 19 percent describing them as a major challenge, followed by Turkey at 17 percent, North Korea at 10 percent and Russia at 8 percent.
Since entering the White House in January, Trump has unsettled Germans by pulling out of the Paris climate accord, refusing to certify an international agreement on Iran’s nuclear programme and criticising Germany’s trade surplus and its contributions to the NATO military alliance.
Trump’s actions prompted the usually cautious German Chancellor Angela Merkel to say earlier this year that Berlin may not be able to rely on the United States in the future. She also urged Europe to take its fate into its own hands.
In the poll of 1,005 Germans of voting age, carried out in October, 56 percent of Germans described the relationship with the United States as bad or very bad.
Despite Merkel’s pledge, the survey showed deep scepticism in the population about Germany taking a more active role in international crises, with 52 percent of respondents saying the country should continue its post-war policy of restraint.
That may reflect the fact that neither Merkel nor her main challengers in the recent election campaign talked much about how Germany should respond to the challenges posed by Trump’s disruptive presidency and Britain’s looming departure from the European Union.
Last week, Norbert Roettgen, a member of Merkel’s conservative party and head of the foreign affairs committee in the Bundestag, decried a “deplorable” lack of leadership in educating Germans about the need to invest more in their own defence and security.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Less involvement by the United States in international affairs under President Donald Trump will have an impact on Germany and its European neighbours, German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel said on Tuesday, warning of a shifting world order.
“The withdrawal of the United States under Donald Trump from its reliable role as a guarantor of western-led multilateralism accelerates a change of the world order with immediate consequences for German and European interests,” Gabriel said.


LONDON (Reuters) - French drugmaker Sanofi said on Tuesday the risk of severe dengue occurring in previously uninfected people given its Dengvaxia dengue vaccine was around two in 1,000 and these individuals recovered with treatment.
The vaccine is at a centre of a safety row after new data showed it could worsen dengue in some cases, prompting the Philippines to halt its sale and suspend a government programme to immunise hundreds of thousands of children.
Answering criticism about delays in reporting problems, Sanofi said it had only been able to conduct a detailed analysis to determine the impact of previous dengue infection this year, after co-developing a new assay with the University of Pittsburgh.
“The increased risk identified from the new analysis translated to two additional cases of ‘severe dengue’ out of 1,000 previously dengue-uninfected people vaccinated over five years of follow-up,” the company said in an emailed statement.
“In this group, all fully recovered with proper medical treatment.”


TEGUCIGALPA (Reuters) - Hondurans spilled into the streets of the capital on Monday night, banging pots and pans and joining rebel police in defiance of a curfew imposed after a presidential election that was heavily criticized by the Organization of American States.
Some police officers abandoned their posts and joined carnival-like demonstrations that erupted across the city hours after night fell and the curfew was supposed to have begun.
A statement issued in the name of the National Police said the officers were upset with the government over a political crisis that was not their responsibility.
“Our people are sovereign,” said a member of the elite Cobra riot police, reading the statement. “We cannot confront and repress their rights.”
Authorities finished counting votes on Monday after a week of increasingly widespread criticism about the Nov. 26 election, with Organization of American States (OAS) lending credence to opposition claims the government manipulated the results to ensure a win.
“The tight margin, along with the irregularities, errors and systematic problems that have surrounded this election, does not allow the mission to be certain about the results,” said former Bolivian President Jorge Quiroga, heading the OAS election observation mission in the Central American country.
Electoral authorities said President Juan Orlando Hernandez won 42.98 percent of the vote, compared with opposition challenger Salvador Nasralla’s 41.39 percent, based on 99.96 percent of ballot boxes tallied.
However, authorities refrained from declaring a winner, with Nasralla’s center-left opposition Alliance demanding a wide recount of nearly a third of votes, a request backed by the OAS and European Union election observers.
Lending more support to that view, a leader of rebellious Cobra riot police told reporters the country wanted a vote-by-vote recount to clarify the results, and called on the armed forces to come out in support of the police protest.
The Alliance, which claims that results sheets from ballot boxes were altered, is expected to formally contest the results.
President Hernandez, who has been praised by the United States for his crackdown on street gangs, also refrained from calling himself the winner on Monday, despite claiming victory several times since the election.
“I make a call for peace, for brotherhood, for sanity, for national unity,” he told reporters.
In a striking sign of support for Hernandez, 49, the U.S. State Department cleared the way for Honduras to receive millions of dollars in U.S. aid two days after the election, certifying that the government has been fighting corruption and upholding human rights, a document seen by Reuters showed.
The government was struggling to contain the fallout from the chaos on Monday evening.
Even former TV star Nasralla joined a crowd of boisterous supporters, jumping up and down in a tan suit while flashing peace signs and joining a chant of “the dictatorship will fall,” a video posted on Twitter showed.
The additional powers granted to the army and police including the nighttime curfew from Friday were intended to stem the protests and have led to more than a thousand arrests. Up to 12 people have been killed in the protests or during the curfew.
Tens of thousands peacefully took to the streets on Sunday in a show of force for the opposition.
The police revolt began when more than 200 members of the Cobras refused to carry on battling protesters, saying it was tantamount to taking sides. Nasralla has repeatedly called on the security forces to ignore orders.
“We are rebelling,” said one of the policemen, who covered his face in a ski mask and declined to give his name. “We call on all the police nationally to act with their conscience.”
They soon had the support of other units, with reports that their protests had spread to other cities.
The police also said they were angry about the death of two colleagues shot while they were enforcing the curfew on Sunday night, an attack a spokesman said was unrelated to the election protests.
Two civilian protesters were killed in the capital overnight, their relatives said, although authorities did not confirm the deaths.
The OAS called for peaceful protests, said politicians must not incite violence and that security forces must respect human rights.
Last week, at least three people were killed as soldiers broke up protesters’ blockades. One police source and local reports said five more had been shot dead in the north of the country on Friday. The deaths have not been confirmed by authorities.
‘STOLEN’
Early last week, Nasralla, a 64-year-old former sportscaster and game show host, appeared set for an upset victory, gaining a five-point lead with more than half of the ballots tallied.
The counting process suddenly halted for more than a day and began leaning in favor of Hernandez after resuming.
Opposition leaders on Monday showed a sample of their own records of polling that did not match with the tribunal‘s.
Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro accused the United States of backing vote fraud in Honduras, while the U.S. embassy on Monday called for a “transparent, impartial, and opportune election result.”
Honduras struggles with violent drug gangs, one of world’s highest murder rates and endemic poverty, driving a tide of its people to migrate to the United States.


WELLINGTON (Reuters) - New Zealand will develop a close relationship with China, Foreign Minister Winston Peters said on Tuesday, putting to rest fears that his protectionist campaign rhetoric would fuel tension with a key trading partner.
The 40-year political veteran played a decisive role in bringing the centre-left Labour Party to power in October after an inconclusive election left his nationalist New Zealand First party holding the balance of power.
But many in China see New Zealand as a model for the Asian giant’s relationship with Western countries, with President Xi Jinping last year calling the depth of the bond “unprecedented”.
“Our record of trade and economic firsts is dramatic,” Peters, who is also deputy prime minister, told academics and diplomats in Wellington, setting out his stance on China for the first time since taking office.
“New Zealand will continue to seek closer cooperation with China as both countries focus on sustainable economic development and the wellbeing of our peoples,” Peters said, giving a complimentary account of 45 years of diplomatic ties.
Peters had campaigned on a protectionist platform, vowing to slash immigration and curb foreign investment, which fuelled  concern he could anger the Asian giant, the country’s top destination for goods exports.
On the previous National government’s watch, New Zealand became the first developed country to join the China-led Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank and helped usher in other Western countries, according to treasury officials.
Trade between the two countries has grown to more than NZ$24 billion ($16.54 billion) a year and New Zealand was the first Western nation to formally sign up to China’s sweeping Belt and Road global infrastructure initiative in March.
The two are in the midst of negotiations to upgrade their 2008 free trade pact, which Peters said would “serve as a demonstration to our shared commitment to trade liberalisation”.
He also defended China’s human rights record, which has at times drawn fire from rights groups.
“When you have hundreds of millions of people to be re-employed and relocated with the change of your economic structure you have some massive, huge problems,” Peters said.
“Sometimes commentators in the West should have a little more regard to that, and the economic outcome for those people, rather than constantly harping on about the romance of freedom.”
China’s crackdown on activists and lawyers in its campaign to stifle dissent was “alarming”, New York-based Human Rights Watch said in September.
($1=1.4512 New Zealand dollars)


HONG KONG (Reuters) - Macau has suspended a pro-democracy lawmaker for alleged “disobedience” after he took to the street instead of staying on a sidewalk during a protest, as activists warn suppression of civil rights is growing in the China-ruled gambling hub.
The suspension of the lawmaker is the first since 1999, when the former Portuguese colony returned to China within a “one country, two systems” framework that allows a free press and an independent judiciary, liberties denied on the mainland.
“It’s a dark day for Macau,” said Jose Coutinho, one of four legislators who voted against the suspension in Monday’s secret ballot, which drew 28 votes in favour. “I am sad and disillusioned with this outcome.”
There were numerous illegalities in the ballot and the lawmaker, 26-year-old Sulu Sou, should have been given an opportunity to defend himself, Coutinho added.
Sou is awaiting trial over a protest in 2016 against a perceived conflict of interest in the transfer of 100 million yuan ($15 million) from the charitable government-linked Macau Foundation to a Chinese university on whose board its chief executive, Fernando Chui, sits.
No date has been set for Sou’s trial, but the assembly vote strips him of his duties, and he can only return if he is found not guilty or gets a jail term shorter than 30 days.
Many in Macau fear the decision signals authorities intend  to follow a path similar to that of former British colony Hong Kong, which has jailed several pro-democracy activists, including a lawmaker, Nathan Law, in the past year.
“This may be the beginning of the death sentence to Macau’s rule of law, and it will end up having an impact in the casino industry,” said Jorge Menezes, a lawyer who has lived in Macau since 1997.
“Sou was stripped of his rights to participate in the debate and vote in a clear violation of the assembly’s rules,” said Menezes, adding that such violations could apply elsewhere in Macau, including the casino industry.
Macau is the world’s biggest gambling hub, home to U.S. companies Las Vegas Sands, Wynn Resorts and MGM Resorts as well as Melco Resorts, Galaxy Entertainment and SJM Holdings.
The casinos have all reaped billions of dollars in the only place where Chinese citizens are allowed to gamble but will be at the mercy of authorities when their licenses start to expire in 2020.
Sou, who has challenged the government on several issues since becoming a lawmaker in September, vowed to fight on.
“We stick together for the very same goal that put us on this course to fight for justice,” grassroots supporter the New Macau Association, which has stood by him, said on social media site Facebook.
($1=6.6110 Chinese yuan renminbi)


TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan is preparing to acquire precision air-launched missiles that for the first time would give it the capability to strike North Korean missile sites, two sources with direct knowledge of the matter said.
Japan plans to put money aside in its next defence budget starting April to study whether its F-15 fighters could launch longer-range missiles including Lockheed Martin Corp’s  extended-range Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (JASSM-ER), which can hit targets 1,000 km (620 miles) away, said one the sources with knowledge of the plan.
“There is a global trend for using longer range missiles and it is only natural that Japan would want to consider them,” he said. The sources asked to remain anonymous as they were not authorised to talk to media.
Japan is also interested in buying the 500 km-range Joint Strike Missile designed by Norway’s Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace to be carried by the F-35 stealth fighter, Fuji Television reported earlier.
Neither of those two items are included in a 5.26 trillion yen ($46.76 billion) budget request already submitted by Japan’s Ministry of Defence, however additional funds would be made available to evaluate the purchase of these missiles, the sources said.
The change suggests that the growing threat posed by North Korean ballistic missiles has given proponents of a strike capability the upper hand in military planning.
Restrictions on strike weapons imposed by its war-renouncing constitution means Japan’s missile force is composed of anti-aircraft and anti-ship munitions with ranges of less than 300 kms (186 miles).
Any decision to buy longer range weapons capable of striking North Korea or even the Chinese mainland would therefore be controversial, but proponents argue that the strike weapons can play a defensive role.
“We are not currently looking at funding for this,”  Japanese Defense Minister Itsunori Onodera said on Tuesday at a regular press briefing.
“We rely on the United States to strike enemy bases and are not looking at making any changes to how we share our roles,” he added.
Before he took up his post in August, Onodera led a group of ruling Liberal Democratic Party lawmakers that recommended Japan acquire strike weapons to deter Pyongyang from launching any attack on Japan.
North Korea has since fired ballistic missiles over Japan and last week tested a new type of intercontinental ballistic missile that climbed to an altitude of more than 4,000 km before splashing into the Sea of Japan within Japan’s exclusive economic zone.
($1 = 112.5000 yen)


SANTIAGO (Reuters) - The leader of an influential leftist bloc in Chile endorsed centre presidential hopeful Alejandro Guillier on Monday over conservative Sebastian Pinera in next week’s run-off election.
Beatriz Sanchez, the flagbearer for the hard-left Frente Amplio coalition, said Pinera’s suggestion that ballots had been tampered with in the first-round election had changed her mind about staying quiet on whom she would vote for in the run-off.
“That crosses the line and that’s why today I’ve decided...to vote against Sebastian Pinera,” Sanchez told journalists. “My vote will be for Alejandro Guillier.”
Winning over Sanchez voters has been seen as essential for a Guillier triumph over Pinera in the second-round vote. As Frente Amplio’s presidential candidate, Sanchez secured twice as many votes as expected by opinion polls and came two points short of moving onto the run-off election with Pinera.
But it was unclear if Sanchez’ somewhat reluctant endorsement of Guillier would be enough to get her supporters excited about heading to polls Dec. 17. Last week, Frente Amplio refrained from endorsing Guillier and demanded he clarify his proposals.
Pinera, a former president who governed Chile between 2010 and 2014, had been expected to easily win this year’s election before his disappointing performance in the Nov. 19 first-round vote.
On Monday, Pinera said on a local radio program that some voters had reported that ballots were pre-marked in favour of his rivals in the first-round election and that he would have more supporters supervising voting stations in the run-off vote.
Chile’s electoral authority said it had received no complaints of irregularities and Pinera’s remarks were widely criticized.
“Let’s be responsible and not discredit our democratic institutions,” outgoing centre President Michelle Bachelet said on Twitter.
Pinera said in an impromptu news conference later on Monday that he did not mean to cast doubt over election results but reiterated that he believed ballots had been tampered with.


SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China’s aviation authority has suspended all flights from the Indonesian holiday island of Bali to Chinese cities until the threat of volcanic ash clears, the state-run People’s Daily newspaper reported on Monday.
Clouds of volcanic ash from Bali’s erupting Mount Agung volcano disrupted flights to and from the island’s airport last week, stranding many thousands of tourists.
Flights began resuming when the airport reopened on Wednesday, after the wind changed and blew the ash away from flight paths. Individual airlines make their own decisions on whether to operate.
Australia’s Jetstar resumed flights on Monday, while Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd said it planned to do so on Tuesday.
Despite the resumption of some services, China’s aviation authority was stopping any more flights after the return on Monday of the last charter flight, bringing to 15,237 the number of stranded Chinese tourists brought home, the People’s Daily newspaper said on its Twitter page.
“China’s aviation authority has suspended all flights from Bali to Chinese cities until volcanic ash threat clears,” it said.
China Eastern Airlines and China Southern Airlines, which stopped flying new tourists into Bali last week, told Reuters that any resumption of flights would depend on the situation.
They declined to comment on the reported directive from the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC).
The CAAC did not respond to Reuters’ request for comment.
China Southern, which flies to Bali from the cities of Shenzhen and Guangzhou, said in an email that “due to volcanic activity in the area, the local airport and associated routes are not airworthy so flights on these two routes have been cancelled in the near term”.
China has overtaken Australia this year as the biggest source of international visitors to Bali, representing about a quarter of the 4.9 million arrivals from January to September, according to industry statistics.
Airlines avoid flying through volcanic ash as it can damage aircraft engines, clogging fuel and cooling systems, hampering pilot visibility and even causing engine failure.
Purwo Nugroh, a spokesman for Indonesia’s disaster mitigation agency, said on Twitter that Mount Agung was no longer spewing ash but just white smoke that reached a height of 1,000 metres early on Monday.
(The story corrects spelling of Indonesian official’s name in paragraph 13)


MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - The United Nations said on Monday the Mexican government is struggling to keep journalists safe and prosecute their oppressors, after officials toured regions of the country that are among the most dangerous in the world for reporters.
Mexican federal prosecutors have yet to secure any convictions for crimes against reporters due to ineffective probes and scant resources, said the U.N.’s special rapporteur for freedom of expression, David Kaye, and his counterpart from the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, Edison Lanza.
They released a preliminary report describing a “profound crisis of safety” after a week-long tour of Mexico City and the violent states of Veracruz, Guerrero, Tamaulipas and Sinaloa, and plan to release detailed recommendations in the spring.
“Past prosecutors didn’t have the same political will to actually get the job done,” said Kaye, expressing cautious hope that current prosecutors will do more to address the problem.
“There’s a bit more attention to getting this done right. I hope what we heard wasn’t just words because we are here,” he added after the two met with 250 reporters on their trip.
A news photographer in the state of San Luis Potosi last October was the 11th journalist murdered so far this year, according to advocacy group Article 19, equalling the death toll in 2016, which was the bloodiest year for journalists on record in Mexico.
Murders are on track to reach a record high this year, as Mexico continues grappling with turf wars between violent drug gangs that have convulsed the country for more than a decade.
In the past 17 years, 111 journalists have been killed in Mexico, 38 of them under the administration of President Enrique Pena Nieto.
Kaye said the prosecutor’s office tasked with investigating attacks on reporters, formed in 2006, needs to deter such crimes by committing substantial resources to solving a single high-profile case, or a handful of them.
“Until that happens, there will be very little prevention, and very little ending of this cycle of violence,” Kaye said.
He and Lanza also said Mexico’s government must devote more funding and staff to a journalist protection program launched in 2012, taking measures such as daily monitoring of the situation in states where reporters are most at risk, and helping them to continue to work if they are forced to leave their homes.
“It has an amount of money that’s absurdly insufficient for the emergency that it’s facing,” Lanza said.


MELBOURNE (Reuters) - An Australian conservative politician on Monday proposed to his long-term partner on the floor of parliament, ahead of the expected passage of a measure for same sex couples to marry.
Australians overwhelmingly voted for same-sex marriage in a postal vote in September and a marriage equality bill that passed the senate last week is being debated in the lower house, where it is expected to pass this week.
Liberal member of parliament Tim Wilson proposed to his partner Ryan Bolger in the capital of Canberra, the two having already exchanged rings but having pledged to wait for the country to pass the legislation before they wed.
“This debate has been the soundtrack to our relationship,”  an emotional Wilson said to his partner, seated in parliament’s public viewing area above.
“In our first speech I defined our bond by the ring that sits on both of our left hands, that they are the answer to the question we cannot ask. So there’s only one thing left to do - Ryan Patrick Bolger, will you marry me?” asked Wilson, who was formerly Australia’s human rights commissioner.
Bolger nodded yes, to applause.
Both Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull’s Liberal-National coalition government and the main opposition Labor Party have said they aim to pass the law by Dec. 7, but any proposed amendments could stretch out that timeline.
Passage of the bill will make Australia the 26th nation to legalise same-sex marriage, a watershed for a country in which some states considered homosexual activity illegal until 1997.
“This is an issue of fundamental fairness,” Turnbull said to parliament later on Monday. “A society that promotes freedom and equality under the law should accord gay men and women the right to marriage.”
About 80 percent of eligible voters participated in the voluntary survey, a turnout larger than for Britain’s Brexit vote and Ireland’s same-sex marriage referendum.
“The message today, to every gay person in this nation, is clear,” Turnbull added. “We love you, we respect you, your relationship is recognised by the Commonwealth as legitimate and honourable as anybody else‘s.”


BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Monday that after two months of relative calm on the Korean peninsula, the resurfacing of tensions was regrettable.
Wang, speaking to reporters at a joint briefing with his  Mongolian counterpart, said that China has an open attitude on solutions to the North Korean nuclear issue, but that parties should be consultative.
In late November, North Korea tested its most advanced intercontinental ballistic missile yet, putting the continental United States within range and increasing pressure on U.S. President Donald Trump to deal with the nuclear-armed nation.
North Korea’s Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Country called Trump “insane” on Sunday and said air drills between the United States and the South would “push the already acute situation on the Korean peninsula to the brink of nuclear war”.


BEIRUT (Reuters) - France should know that Iran’s missile programme is not an issue that can be negotiated, Iran’s foreign ministry spokesman, Bahram Qassemi, said in an interview with state media on Monday.
”French official, other officials, who want to speak about Iran’s affairs need to pay attention to the deep developments that have come to pass in the region in past decades and the big changes between the current situation and the past,” Qassemi said Monday, according to state media.
“The Islamic Republic of Iran will definitely not negotiate on defence and missile issues.”
Tension between Iran and France increased last month when  French President Emmanuel Macron said that Iran should be less aggressive in the region and should clarify its ballistic missile programme.
His foreign minister also denounced, during a visit to Saudi Arabia, Iran’s “hegemonic temptations”.
France could play a productive role in the Middle East by taking a “realistic and impartial approach”, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani told Macron in a telephone call two weeks ago, according to Iranian state media.
Iranian state media said Rouhani told Macron that the Islamic Republic was ready to develop its relations with France on all bilateral, regional and international issues based on mutual respect and shared goals.


AMMAN (Reuters) - Jets believed to be Syrian and Russian struck heavily crowded residential areas in a besieged rebel enclave near Damascus, killing at least 27 people and injuring dozens in the third week of a stepped-up assault, residents, aid workers and a war monitor said on Monday.
Civil defence workers said at least 17 were killed in the town of Hamoriya in an aerial strike on a marketplace and nearby residential area after over nearly 30 strikes in the past 24 hours that struck several towns in the densely populated rural area east of Damascus known as the Eastern Ghouta.
Four other civilians were killed in the town of Arbin,  while the rest came from strikes on Misraba and Harasta, the civil defence workers said.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which monitors the conflict, said the casualties on Sunday were the biggest daily death toll since the stepped-up strikes began 20 days ago. The monitor said nearly 200 civilians were killed in strikes and shelling, including many women and children, during that period.
The Eastern Ghouta has been besieged by army troops since 2013 in an attempt to force the rebel enclave to submission.
The government has in recent months tightened the siege in what residents and aid workers have said is a deliberate use of starvation as a weapon of war, a charge the government denies.
The United Nations says about 400,00 civilians besieged in the region face “complete catastrophe” because aid deliveries by the Syrian government were blocked and hundreds of people who need urgent medical evacuation have not been allowed outside the enclave.
Eastern Ghouta is the last remaining large swathe of rebel-held area around Damascus that has not reached an evacuation deal to surrender weapons in return for allowing fighters to go to other rebel-held areas farther north.
“They are targeting civilians ... a jet hit us there, no rebels or checkpoints,” Sadeq Ibrahim, a trader, said by phone in Hamoriya.
“May God take his revenge on the regime and Russia,” said Abdullah Khalil, another resident, who said he lost members of his family in the air strike on Arbin and was searching for survivors among the rubble.
The intensified bombardment of Eastern Ghouta follows a rebel attack last month on an army complex in the heart of the region that the army had used to bomb nearby rebel-held areas.
Residents said, however, that the failure of the army to dislodge rebels from the complex had prompted what they believe were retaliatory indiscriminate attacks on civilians in the Eastern Ghouta.
Government advances since last year have forced people to flee deeper into its increasingly overcrowded towns. The loss of farmland is increasing pressure on scarce food supplies.
The Eastern Ghouta is part of several de-escalation zones that Russia has brokered with rebels across Syria that has freed the army to redeploy in areas where it can regain ground.
Rebels accuse the Syrian government and Russia of violating the zones and say they were meant as a charade to divert attention from the heavy daily bombing of civilian areas. The Syrian government and Russia deny their jets bomb civilians and insist they only strike militant hideouts.


SYDNEY (Reuters) - An earthquake of magnitude 6.0 struck off the Kermadec Islands at a depth of 10 km on Monday, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said. There was no tsunami warning.


HANOVER, Germany (Reuters) - Members of the anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany (AfD) party elected a right-wing nationalist to be their co-leader on Saturday, signalling a possible toughening of tone before regional votes next year.
A party congress chose Alexander Gauland - who once defended an AfD member who had said history should be rewritten to focus on German victims of World War Two - to return to the post he had held until 2015.
As members deliberated, thousands of anti-AfD protesters marched outside carrying placards reading “Hanover against Nazis” and “Stand up to racism”.
Earlier, riot police fired water cannon at dozens of protesters who blocked a road leading to the congress, underlining the divisive impact the party has had since it entered the Bundestag lower house for the first time in a Sept. 24 election.
The party’s incumbent leader Jorg Meuthen - seen as a relative moderate in the movement - won enough votes to keep his post.
But in a vote that dragged into the evening, he was joined as co-leader by Gauland, who ran for the post at the last minute after another candidate seen as a moderate, Georg Pazderski, failed to win enough votes.
Before the leadership vote, Meuthen praised the party often beset by internal strife for showing unity after two senior members quit in September in protest against what they saw as an unstoppable populist streak.
“There are people in this country who don’t only say ‘We can do this’ but who actually manage to do something,” Meuthen told delegates, putting a new twist on Chancellor Angela Merkel’s “Wir schaffen das” (We can do it) message to those who doubted Germany can deal with a record influx of migrants in 2015.
As thousands of protesters marched peacefully outside, AfD delegates watched a short film that painted a gloomy picture of Europe’s largest economy being overrun by beggars, stone-throwers and Muslims.
Founded in 2013 as a vehicle to oppose euro zone bailouts, the AfD was polling at around 3 percent nationally two years ago on the eve of the refugee crisis.
The arrival of more than 1.6 million people seeking asylum in the two years to the end of 2016 has helped it morph into an anti-immigrant party that now has seats in 14 of Germany’s 16 regional parliament.
Polls suggest it will win seats in next year’s regional elections in the southern state of Bavaria and the western region of Hesse, which would give it a foothold in all of Germany’s state parliaments.
Gauland replaces Frauke Petry, who quit to become an independent member of parliament.
Her sudden departure two days after the AfD became the first far-right party to win seats in the Bundestag since the 1950s exposed rifts over whether the party should ditch rhetoric including statements saying Islam was not compatible with the German constitution.


BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Dozens of relatives of the 44 crew members of an Argentine submarine that went missing on November 15 marched from a naval base on Sunday, demanding to know what happened and criticising the government’s response to the tragedy.
Holding posters with photos of the crew and chanting “Search and Rescue!” the family members walked away from a naval base in Mar del Plata, following a press conference during which the navy said the submarine had still not been located.
The disaster has spurred soul searching over the state of the military in Argentina, which now has one of Latin America’s smallest defence budgets in relation to economic size after a series of financial crises.
“Our disagreement is with the government, not with the navy,” said Marcela Moyano, wife of crew member Hernán Rodríguez, during the protest. “Whoever is responsible needs to be held responsible.”
Spokesman Enrique Balbi said on Thursday the navy had abandoned hope of rescuing the crew alive, noting the ARA San Juan had air supplies for a week while 15 days had passed since it last reported its position.
Some family members complained they were not advised before the general public of the end of the rescue mission and have also demanded more contact with President Mauricio Macri in Mar del Plata, where the San Juan was scheduled to end its journey.
While local media have speculated Macri will soon declare a period of national mourning for the submarine crew, he has been silent in recent days.
“He (Macri) needs to be here because this is the priority, there are 44 families behind this situation and someone has to be in charge,” said Marcela Fernández, wife of Alberto Sánchez.
Macri’s defence minister met with families in Mar del Plata on Friday.
Balbi said on Saturday an object that was being reviewed by a Russian unmanned remotely operated vehicle in the South Atlantic had turned out not to be the submarine. The government has pledged to continue the search with foreign assistance.
The navy said on Nov. 27 that water that entered the submarine’s snorkel caused its battery to short-circuit before it went missing. The navy had previously said international organizations detected a noise that could have been the submarine’s implosion the same day contact was lost.


GENEVA (Reuters) - The United Nations called on world powers on Thursday to help arrange the medical evacuation of 500 people, including 167 children, from eastern Ghouta, saying the besieged Damascus suburb has now become a “humanitarian emergency”.
Nine people died in recent weeks waiting for permission from the Syrian government for the sick and wounded to be evacuated from the rebel-held area to hospitals less than an hour drive from the capital, said Jan Egeland, the U.N. humanitarian adviser on Syria.
Russia and Iran, as well as the United States and France, pledged to help during the weekly humanitarian meeting, he said.
“It would be incredible if they cannot deliver a simple evacuation of mainly women and children, a 40-minute drive to Damascus city,” Egeland told a news conference in Geneva.
“We are convinced that we can do the evacuation if we get a green light from the government. We can then negotiate calm with both sides.”
Dozens of mortar bombs landed on Ghouta, the last major rebel stronghold near Damascus, on Wednesday, a war monitor and a witness said, despite a 48-hour truce proposed by Russia to coincide with the start of peace talks in Geneva.
“Eastern Ghouta, next door to Damascus, is the eye of the hurricane, it is the epicentre of this conflict. At the moment there are 400,000 people there,” Egeland said.
In the past two months, U.N. convoys have delivered supplies to only 68,000 of the 400,000 trapped civilians, he said.
“Our not being able to reach eastern Ghouta for many months in most of areas has now led to an undoubtedly catastrophic situation,” Egeland said.
Acute malnutrition rates among children there is nearly 12 percent, above the 10 percent emergency threshold, and a five- or six-fold increase since January, he added.
“In general I would say that no, there is no calm in this de-escalation zone, there is only escalation in this de-escalation zone,” Egeland said.
“That has ended in eastern Ghouta except for (a pause of) two days only, there has been massive loss of civilian life, hundreds and hundreds have been wounded.”
”We need sustained calm to be able to feed 400,000 people who now beyond doubt are in a humanitarian emergency“,” he said.
Civilians in Damascus have also been killed or wounded by mortars coming from eastern Ghouta, he added.
In Hassakeh, in northeastern Syria, U.N. aid workers found a desperate situation, Egeland said. “They told about children walking around barefoot, recently displaced children, barefoot in the snow and the cold.”
He hoped that the U.N. Security Council would agree on a resolution allowing cross-border aid to continue to enter Syria, supplying 2.7 million people in rebel-held areas.
“It is my clear understanding from all members of the Security Council that none wants a break of the pipeline.”


PARIS (Reuters) - Corsican nationalists won almost half of the vote in the first round of the French Mediterranean island’s territorial election on Sunday, a landslide likely to fuel local calls for greater autonomy from Paris.
The ticket led by autonomist leader Gilles Simeoni won 45.36 percent of the votes for the newly created, more powerful local assembly, according to final interior ministry results. A second round will be held next Sunday.
President Emmanuel Macron’s ticket only came in fourth with 11.26 percent of the vote. In the April and May presidential elections, Macron had already significantly underperformed his national score in Corsica.
Macron’s Republic On the Move party said in a statement the vote showed Corsicans’ loss of confidence in the central government and that it aimed to rebuilt trust everywhere in France.
Separately, the party also hailed the election of the first mayor associated with Macron’s movement on Sunday, in the southern village of Saint-Sulpice-la-Pointe near Toulouse.


CAIRO (Reuters) - Former Egyptian prime minister Ahmed Shafik, who returned home from the United Arab Emirates after announcing his bid for Egypt’s presidency, appeared in Cairo on Sunday to say he was still considering his run in next year’s election.
Shafik’s comments on a private Cairo television station came a day after his family said he had been taken from their home in the Emirates and deported back to Egypt, where they said they had lost contact with him until late on Sunday.
Shafik, a former air force chief and government minister, has been seen by critics of President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi as the strongest potential challenger to the president, who is expected to run for a second term next year.
Details about what happened to Shafik between his leaving the UAE on Saturday and his declaration on Sunday were unclear. He made a surprise announcement from the UAE last week that he planned to run in the 2018 election.
“Today, I am here in the country, so I think I am free to deliberate further on the issue, to explore and go down and talk to people in the street,” he said on Sunday.
“There’s a chance now to investigate more and see exactly what is needed ... to feel out if this is the logical choice.”
The interview on Dream TV was Shafik’s first public appearance since leaving the UAE on Saturday. His family said earlier they feared he had been “kidnapped”. Sources said he had been picked up by Egyptian authorities at Cairo airport.
Shafik dismissed reports he had been kidnapped.
His lawyer, Dina Adly, wrote on her Facebook page that she had been able to see him at a Cairo hotel and said he was not subject to any investigations. She did not confirm whether he was able to leave the hotel or country.
“I had a meeting with Shafik an hour ago at one of the hotels in New Cairo and confirmed his health,” Adly wrote on Facebook, referring to a suburban area of Cairo.
“He confirmed that his health was good and that he was not subjected to any investigations,” she wrote.
Shafik’s family said earlier he had been taken from their home on Saturday by UAE authorities and flown by private plane back to Cairo.
“We know nothing about him since he left home yesterday,” Shafik’s daughter May told Reuters on Sunday before his reappearance.
“If he was deported he should have been able to go home by now, not just disappear. We consider him kidnapped.”
UAE authorities confirmed he left the Emirates but gave no details.
A source at the Egyptian interior ministry said: “We do not know anything about Shafik. We did not arrest him and we did not receive any requests from the prosecution to arrest him or bring him back.”
Shafik’s abrupt departure from UAE came weeks after Lebanese officials accused Saudi Arabia of meddling by forcing Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri to resign by holding him against his will.
Saudi Arabia denied those charges but the case prompted a crisis and pushed Lebanon back into the centre of a regional struggle between Riyadh with its Sunni Gulf allies and Iran.
Sisi is an ally of UAE and Saudi Arabia and his supporters say he is key to Egypt’s stability. Critics say he has eroded freedoms gained after a 2011 uprising that ousted former leader Hosni Mubarak and jailed hundreds of dissidents.
Sisi has won backing from Gulf states and has presented himself as a bulwark against Islamist militants since, as army commander, he led the overthrow in 2013 of former president Mohamed Mursi of the now banned Muslim Brotherhood.
After four decades in the military, Shafik touted his military experience as one of his strengths in the 2012 vote.
But he fled to the UAE to escape corruption charges in June 2012. He dismissed the charges as politically motivated and was taken off airport watchlists last year.
In UAE, his family said he had round-the-clock security at home and informed authorities about his whereabouts. Soon after his announcement on Wednesday, he claimed he had been blocked from travelling, but his family later said he had been given assurances he could travel.
Sisi has yet to announce his own intentions for the election. His supporters dismiss criticism over rights abuses and say any measures are needed for security in the face of an Islamist insurgency that has killed hundreds of police and soldiers.
His government is struggling to crush the insurgency in the North Sinai region and has enacted painful austerity reforms over the last year which critics say have eroded his popularity.


STOCKHOLM (Reuters) - Sweden’s government has dropped a plan to cap profits made by tax-funded healthcare companies, Social Minister Annika Strandhall said on Sunday.
A government commission in 2016, headed by Social Democrat politician Ilmar Reepalu, had called for a cap on profits for all private companies firms operating in the education and welfare sectors that received tax money.
The government plans to put a bill to parliament in March to limit profits for privately operated but tax-funded schools.
But Strandhall, the minister for health and social affairs, said there would not be a cap for private healthcare firms that receive tax money.
“We do not believe that the model which Ilmar Reepalu proposes with a profit cap is the one we want to have in healthcare,” she told the newspaper Dagens Industri.
Minister for Public Administration Ardalan Shekarabi said in a signed article in the daily Dagens Nyheter the government would appoint a commission to look at how private healthcare operators who get tax money use that funding.
“A large majority want to see the hunt for profit in welfare stopped,” Shekarabi said.
“The government and the Left Party are agreed that we must ensure that our taxes go to what they are intended for.”


ADEN (Reuters) - A Saudi-led coalition launched air strikes on Yemen’s capital, Sanaa, local media said, lending support to former Yemeni president Ali Abdullah Saleh after he signalled he was abandoning his support of the Iran-aligned Houthis - a shift that could pave the way to end three years of war.
In a speech on Saturday, Saleh appeared to indicate the end of his loyalists’ alliance with Houthi fighters. He said he was ready to turn a “new page” in ties with the Saudi-led coalition fighting the Houthis, if it stopped attacks on Yemeni citizens and lifted a siege.
Residents on Sunday, however, said a coalition air strike overnight killed 12 Yemeni civilians in one family in the northern province of Saada, the home territory of the Houthis. The attack could not be verified.
Saudi-owned al-Arabiya television said on Sunday coalition aircraft pounded Houthi outposts in southern Sanaa overnight, but gave no details on casualties.
Separately, the Houthis, who together with Saleh’s loyalists, control most of northern Yemen, said they had fired a cruise missile towards a nuclear power plant under construction in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), a report quickly denied by the UAE.
Saleh’s announcement on Saturday was welcomed by the Saudi-led coalition, which has been backed by the United States and other Western powers.
The coalition, which includes the United Arab Emirates, is trying to help Yemen’s internationally recognised President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi back to power, but it has struggled to advance against Houthi-Saleh forces. A split between Saleh’s armed allies and the Houthis could tip the balance of power.
Army units loyal to Saleh have been clashing with Houthi fighters in the past five days, adding a new layer to an already complex situation in Yemen.
Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Anwar Gargash appeared to back Saleh’s side in remarks on his official Twitter page.
“The events in Sanaa are murky, but its national uprising needs support ... to protect the Arabian Peninsula from Iranian expansion,” he said.
Residents in Sanaa reported on Sunday that the Houthis appeared to be clawing back some territory lost to Saleh over the previous four days, and Houthi tanks were deployed amid heavy gun battles in the city’s central Political District.
The area is a stronghold of Saleh’s loyalists under the command of his nephew Tareq, an influential army general.
The fighting has cut off the airport road, prompting the United Nations to try to evacuate at least 140 aid workers from Sanaa, according to U.N. and other aid officials. The U.N. was awaiting approval from the Saudi-led coalition, they said.
Residents earlier said Houthi fighters seized the television studios of Yemen Today, a news channel owned by Saleh, after clashes that damaged the building. Residents said 20 employees were trapped inside.
The Red Cross said dozens of people have been killed in clashes over the past five days and called for civilian lives to be spared.
In Tehran, Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Bahram Qassemi called for calm and restraint. “All internal disputes should be resolved through dialogue to block the grounds for any abuse by the enemies of the Yemeni nation,” he said, according to a statement on the ministry’s website.
Yemen is one of the poorest countries in the Middle East, and the proxy war between the Iran-aligned Houthis and the Saudi-backed Hadi has created widespread hunger and disease, in one of the worst humanitarian crises of recent times.
More than 10,000 people have died since 2015, more than two million have been displaced and nearly a million have been infected by a cholera outbreak. Famine threatens much of the country.
Yemen descended into violence in late 2014 when the Houthis, a group that follows the Zaidi branch of Shi‘ite Islam, marched on Sanaa and seized control of the government.
Backed by government troops loyal to Saleh, the Houthis fanned out across the country, forcing Hadi to flee to Riyadh. His ouster led the alliance headed by the Saudis to join the fighting.
The Houthis said the missile fired on Sunday was directed towards the al-Barakah nuclear power plant in Abu Dhabi, but provided no evidence of any attack.
There were no reports of any missiles reaching Abu Dhabi. The country’s crisis management authority said the al-Barakah was well protected and urged the public not to listen to rumours.
“The National Emergency Crisis and Disasters Management Authority denies claims by the coup trumpets in Yemen that they fired a missile towards the airspace of the United Arab Emirates,” the department said in a statement carried by state news agency WAM.
It said the nuclear power project was “fortified and sturdy against all possibilities. And enjoys all measures of nuclear safety and security that such grand projects require”.
The Houthis had said Abu Dhabi, a member of the Saudi-led coalition fighting against them since 2015, was a target for their missiles.
The Barakah project, which is being built by Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO), is expected to be completed and become operational in 2018, the UAE energy minister has said.
It is the second time this year the Houthis have said they have fired missiles towards the UAE. A few months ago, they said they had “successfully” test-fired a missile towards Abu Dhabi, but there were no reports of any rockets being intercepted by or falling in the UAE.


BEIRUT (Reuters) - The Syrian Kurdish YPG militia said on Sunday it had fully captured Deir al-Zor’s eastern countryside from Islamic State with the help of both the U.S.-led coalition and Russia.
The YPG spearheads the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), an alliance of mostly Kurdish and Arab militias fighting Islamic State with Washington’s backing. The SDF offensive in Deir al-Zor province, which borders Iraq, has focussed on territory east of the Euphrates river.
On the western bank, the Syrian military has waged its own attack against Islamic State with support from Iran-backed militias and Russia.
The separate assaults advanced from opposite sides of the river, which bisects oil-rich Deir al-Zor, mostly staying out of each other’s way. The U.S.-led coalition and the Russian military have held deconfliction meetings - to prevent clashes between planes and troops - though the two offensives have sometimes come into conflict.
The SDF’s most powerful component, the YPG, announced that it had defeated Islamic State militants on its side “in cooperation with the Arab tribes.”
The U.S.-led coalition and Russian forces in Syria provided “air and logistical support, advice and coordination on the ground,” its statement said. “We hope for an increase in this support and for ensuring the necessary air cover.”
A YPG spokesman declared the victory in a village in Deir al-Zor in the presence of a Russian envoy from Moscow’s Hmeimim military base in Syria, it said.
U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said this week that as the battle against Islamic State entered its final stages, he expected the focus to move towards holding territory instead of arming Syrian Kurdish fighters.
Washington’s support for the YPG has infuriated Turkey, which sees the growing influence of Kurdish forces on its border as a security threat. Ankara considers the YPG an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) movement, which has fought a decades-long insurgency on Turkish soil.
Since the start of Syria’s conflict in 2011, the YPG and its allies have carved out autonomous regions in the north. They now control around a quarter of Syria, the largest part outside government control, after seizing vast land from Islamic State.
Their autonomy plans face opposition from their battlefield ally Washington, from Turkey and from the Syrian government.
The YPG said on Sunday it was forming civil councils for Deir al-Zor that include Kurds, Arabs and other components based on “the principle of democracy and self-rule.” It would mirror governing arrangements in other towns and cities that the Kurdish fighters and their allies captured.
With Islamic State close to collapse in Syria, Syrian Kurdish leaders hope for a phase of negotiations to shore up their autonomy in the north. But in recent months, the Damascus government and its Iranian allies have more forcefully asserted ambitions to take territory under the control of Kurdish-led forces.


GENEVA (Reuters) - The United Nations is trying to evacuate at least 140 aid workers from the Yemeni capital amid fighting that has cut off the airport road, but is awaiting approval from the Saudi-led coalition, U.N. and other aid officials said on Sunday.
Coalition aircraft bombed Houthi positions in Sanaa overnight, residents and local media said, aiming to shore up supporters of former Yemeni president Ali Abdullah Saleh as they battle the Houthi group, which is aligned with Iran.
It was the fourth day of clashes in which dozens have been killed, the Red Cross said.
“There is a plane on stand-by in Djibouti for 140 international staff,” a U.N. official in Sanaa told Reuters. About half were from non-governmental organisations, he said.
“Fighting is moving towards the airport and the situation is very tense. We can’t even evacuate staff,” he said.
United Nations staff have been confined to their living quarters in Sanaa since clashes erupted on Thursday, he said.
Shells were falling near the UN compound in Sanaa on Siteen Street on Sunday, with one source on the scene saying stray bullets had hit the compound. The compound is empty as staff had been told to stay at home and not report to work.
Another aid worker with an independent agency in Yemen, who declined to be identified, said the U.N. was planning to evacuate as many as 180 U.N. and other aid workers, but U.N. officials considered the airport road was not safe enough.
Russell Geekie, a U.N. humanitarian spokesman in New York, said the U.N. planned to reduce the number of non-essential staff in Sanaa, but they could not yet safely move, and exact numbers were unclear due to the fluidity of the situation.
“We’re very concerned by the clashes in Sanaa city, which have reportedly resulted in civilian deaths and have negative implications for the humanitarian response,” Geekie said in an emailed response to Reuters.
“At present, fighting is restricting movement within the city, including on the airport road. The airport remains closed with Sanaa residents holed up in their homes.”
Clearance to land at Sanaa airport has yet to be received from the coalition, who control the skies over the Houthi-controlled capital, aid workers said.
Saleh said on Saturday he was ready to turn a “new page” in ties with the coalition fighting in Yemen if it stopped attacks on Yemeni citizens, in a move that could pave the way to end nearly three years of war.
The apparent shift in position came as Saleh’s supporters battled Houthi fighters in Hadda, a district in southern Sanaa where members of Saleh’s family, including his nephew Tareq, live.
In Geneva, spokeswoman Elodie Schindler of the International Committee of the Red Cross said: “In light of the current chaotic situation, the ICRC is looking to downsize staff presence in Yemen to a core team”.


ABUJA (Reuters) - Nigeria’s Atiku Abubakar, a former vice president and key ally of President Muhammadu Buhari, said on Sunday he had joined the country’s opposition party after quitting the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) last month.
Abubakar is the first political heavyweight to signal a potential bid for the presidency, which could pit him against the 74-year-old Buhari. Buhari took power in 2015, but illness has kept him absent for much of this year.
Abubakar is prepared to run for president in 2019, a spokesman said last month when he left the APC. He  did not indicate on Sunday whether he would try to become the opposition People’s Democratic Party’s (PDP‘s) presidential candidate.
Abubakar rejoined the PDP after four years because it has resolved its issues, he said, according to a statement on Sunday. He had left the PDP because he “believed it was no longer aligned to the principles of equity, democracy and social justice,” he said.
In Sunday’s statement, Abubakar criticised the APC for letting down the Nigerian people by failing to create a strong economy and jobs, especially for the young, with one quarter of 18-25 year olds unemployed.


DOHA (Reuters) - Qatari Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani is expected to attend the annual summit of Gulf Arab heads of state in Kuwait on Dec. 5 and 6, Qatar’s foreign minister said on Sunday, despite a deep dispute within the group.
“The ministerial meeting will be attended tomorrow, and (for) the summit, god willing, the Emir,” Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman al-Thani said in a speech.
The rift between the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council members Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), on one side, and Qatar on the other had put this year’s annual meeting in doubt.
There was no immediate comment from other Gulf nations on the Qatari announcement.
The dispute, which erupted in June, revolves around allegations by Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Bahrain and Egypt that Qatar supports terrorism, a charge Doha denies.
The four countries have severed diplomatic, trade and travel links with Doha, in a move Qatar says is inflicting collective punishment on its people but its opponents call a legitimate response to its policies.
Qatar says the four countries are trying to force Doha to fall in line with their own foreign policy.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Republican U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham on Sunday urged the Pentagon to start moving U.S. military dependents, such as spouses and children, out of South Korea, saying conflict with North Korea is getting close.
“It’s crazy to send spouses and children to South Korea given the provocation of North Korea,” Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”
“So I want them (the Pentagon) to stop sending dependents and I think it’s now time to start moving American dependents out of South Korea,” Graham said. The United States has 28,500 troops in South Korea as a legacy of the 1950-53 Korean War.
On Wednesday, North Korea tested a new type of intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) that can fly over 13,000 km (8,080 miles), placing Washington within target range, South Korea said on Friday.
Graham said this development showed conflict is approaching.
“We’re getting close to military conflict because North Korea is marching towards marrying up the technology of an ICBM  with a nuclear weapon on top that can not only get to America, but deliver the weapon. We’re running out of time,” Graham told CBS.
The Pentagon referred questions to the Pacific command, which was not immediately available for comment.
White House national security adviser H.R. McMaster told “Fox News Sunday” that President Donald Trump is prepared to take action against North Korea but is working to convince China, Russia and other nations to use more economic pressure to help curb its nuclear ambitions.
“The president’s going to take care of it by, if we have to, doing more ourselves. But what we want to do is convince others, it is in their interest to do more,” McMaster said.
The Trump administration has repeatedly said all options are on the table in dealing with North Korea’s ballistic and nuclear weapons programs, including military ones, but that it still prefers a diplomatic option.


SEOUL (Reuters) - A South Korean fishing boat capsized off the country’s western coast on Sunday after it collided with a refuelling vessel, killing eight people, South Korea’s coast guard said.
The boat was carrying two sailors and 20 passengers when the collision occurred in waters near Incheon west of Seoul, a coast guard official told a media briefing.
Two people remain missing and a search and rescue operation involving five helicopters and 19 vessels is underway.
President Moon Jae-in ordered all measures be taken to find those missing, his office told reporters.
Those rescued from the water have been sent to nearby hospitals, the coast guard said.
The reason for the collision has yet to be confirmed, according to the coast guard.


ABOARD THE PAPAL PLANE (Reuters) - Pope Francis on Saturday defended his strategy of avoiding the term “Rohingya” in Myanmar, saying he believed he got his message across to both the civilian and military leadership without shutting down dialogue.
Speaking to reporters aboard the plane returning to Rome from Bangladesh, the pontiff also indicated that he had been firm with Myanmar’s military leaders in private meetings about the need for them to respect the rights of Rohingya refugees.
He also disclosed that he cried when he met a group of Rohingya refugees on Friday in Bangladesh, where he defended their rights by name in an emotional meeting.
“For me, the most important thing is that message gets through, to try to say things one step at a time and listen to the responses,” he said.
“I knew that if in the official speeches I would have used that word, they would have closed the door in our faces. But (in public) I described situations, rights, said that no one should be excluded, (the right to) citizenship, in order to allow myself to go further in the private meetings,” he said.
Francis did not use the word Rohingya in public while on the first leg of the trip in Myanmar. Predominantly Buddhist Myanmar does not recognise the mostly Muslim Rohingya as an ethnic group with its own identity but as illegal immigrants from Bangladesh.
Local Roman Catholic Church authorities had advised him not to say it because it could spark a backlash against Christians and other minority groups.
The pope met Myanmar’s military leaders privately on Monday, shortly after his arrival in the nation’s biggest city, Yangon.
The meeting had been scheduled for Thursday morning but the military pointedly asked at the last minute that it be pushed forward. The result was they saw the pope before the civilian leaders instead of the other way around, as had been planned.
“It was a good conversation and the truth was non-negotiable,” he said of his meeting with the military leaders.
The latest exodus from Myanmar to Bangladesh of about 625,000 people followed a Myanmar military crackdown in response to Rohingya militant attacks on an army base and police posts on Aug. 25.
Refugees have said scores of Rohingya villages were burnt to the ground, people were killed and women were raped. The military have denied accusations of ethnic cleansing by the United States and United Nations.
Asked if he used the word Rohingya during the private meeting with the military chiefs, the pope said: “I used words in order to arrive at the message and when I saw that the message had arrived, I dared to say everything that I wanted say”.
He then gave a reporter a mischievous grin and ended his answer with the Latin phrase “Intelligenti Pauca,” which means “Few words are enough for those who understand,” strongly hinting that he had used the word the military detests while in their presence.
Human rights groups have criticised the country’s de facto civilian leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace Prize winner who was under house arrest for a total of 15 years before the 2015 elections, for not taking a stand against the generals.
But Francis, who met with her privately on Tuesday, appeared to give her the benefit of the doubt because of her delicate relationship with the generals who were once her jailers.
“Myanmar is a nation that is growing politically, in transition,” Francis said in response to a question about Suu Kyi and budding democracy in Myanmar.
“So things have to be viewed through this lens. Myanmar has to be able to look forward to the building of the country”.
On Friday in the Bangladeshi capital, Dhaka, Francis held an emotional encounter with Muslim Rohingya refugees from Myanmar  and then used the word Rohingya for the first time on the trip, although he had defended them by name twice from the Vatican earlier this year.
He told the crowd where the Rohingya were that God’s presence was within them and they should be respected.
“I was crying and tried to hide it,” Francis said on the plane, recounting how moved he felt when the refugees recounted their ordeals to him.


JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South Africa and Morocco will resume diplomatic ties more than a decade after Morocco withdrew its ambassador from Pretoria, South African President Jacob Zuma said in a newspaper interview published on Sunday.
Morocco recalled its ambassador from South Africa in 2004 after former South African president Thabo Mbeki recognised a breakaway region in the Western Sahara which Morocco claims as part of its territory.
“Morocco is an African nation and we need to have relations with them,” Zuma told City Press in the interview. “We never had problems with them anyway; they were the first to withdraw diplomatic relations.”
Zuma met Morocco’s King Mohammed last week on the sidelines of an African Union-European Union summit.
“They felt that even if we differ on the Western Sahara issues, the two countries should have a relationship,” Zuma said about Moroccan officials’ position at the meeting.
South Africa’s official government position - as re-affirmed by Zuma in one of his state of the nation addresses - is to support “self determination and decolonisation for the Western Sahara”.
The decision to re-establish ties with Morocco is likely to go down badly with some members of South Africa’s ruling African National Congress (ANC), of which Zuma is leader.
The ANC - as one of Africa’s oldest liberation movements - has long backed those seeking independence in the Western Sahara and has accused Morocco of occupying the region.
The ruling party said in a statement it had “unequivocal support for Western Sahara” but that this did not mean it harboured enmity towards Morocco.
“There is also no ANC policy that says South Africa should isolate Morocco,” the statement said.
A spokesman for South Africa’s foreign ministry could not be reached for comment on Sunday.
Morocco has controlled most of the Western Sahara, which is rich in phosphates and has seen some initial oil exploration efforts, since 1975. A ceasefire in 1991 called for a referendum on self-determination for Western Sahara, but the vote has never taken place.


BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese police have detained 11 people in connection with a deadly skyscraper fire in the northern port city of Tianjin, the municipal government said on Sunday, after an investigation found numerous fire code violations.
The blaze which killed 10 and injured five early on Friday morning was caused by renovation materials catching fire on the 38th floor of a serviced apartment building, the Tianjin government said in a post on its official Weibo account.
It said the companies responsible for the renovations had left a fire prevention water tank empty, rendering firefighting equipment useless and allowing the fire to spread quickly.
Fire safety has come under scrutiny and attracted increased media attention in China after a deadly blaze last month killed 19 in the far southern fringe of Beijing, which has led to citywide evictions seen by some people as unfairly targeting the vulnerable underclass.
Sparks from drilling work caused a blaze at a warehouse storing rubber products in a logistics park in China’s eastern Shandong province on Friday, though no casualties were reported.
On Sunday, another fire broke out at a small insulation factory in Xian, in northwestern Shaanxi province. No casualties were reported.
All but one of the dead in the Tianjin fire were renovation workers who were sleeping on site, against regulations. All were men and all were migrant workers from other Chinese provinces.
Tianjin party secretary Li Hongzhong said authorities would carry out citywide fire safety inspections in response to Friday’s blaze, the official Tianjin Daily reported.


(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump said in a tweet on Sunday he never asked former FBI director James Comey to stop investigating former national security adviser Michael Flynn.
Flynn is the first member of Trump’s administration to plead guilty to a crime uncovered by special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian attempts to influence last year’s U.S. presidential election. Trump fired Comey from his post in May.
“I never asked Comey to stop investigating Flynn. Just more Fake News covering another Comey lie!” Trump tweeted.


BAMA, Nigeria (Reuters) - Nigeria’s government has a plan for the northeast, torn apart by eight years of conflict with Boko Haram: displaced people will be housed in fortified garrison towns, ringed by farms, with the rest of the countryside effectively left to fend for itself.
The vision for the state of Borno, ground zero for the war with the Islamist insurgency, is a stark admission of the reality in the northeast.
For two years, the military and government have said Boko Haram is all but defeated, and the remnants are being mopped up.
But the military is largely unable to control territory beyond the cities and towns it has wrested back from Boko Haram. That means many of the nearly 2 million displaced people across the northeast cannot return to their homes in rural areas.
Kashim Shettima, the governor of Borno state, said it was not possible for people to live in small villages.
“There’s beauty in numbers, there’s security in numbers. So our target is to congregate all the people in five major urban settlements and provide them with means of livelihood, education, health care and of course security,” he told Reuters. “It’s a long term solution, certainly.”
The plan for the eastern part of the state, centred on the town of Bama, is intended as a pilot scheme to be rolled out in other parts of Borno if it is successful.
Vigilantes, currently members of a group known as the Civilian Joint Task Force, will become agricultural rangers, the governor said.
Aided by Nigerian security forces, they will aim to secure and patrol a five-km (three-mile) radius around each garrison town where people can farm.
Peter Lundberg, the United Nations Deputy Humanitarian Coordinator for Nigeria, who heads the organisation’s response in the northeast, said the reconstruction of Bama town, the second biggest in the state, was “logical”.
“People are very eager to go back if the conditions are right and if the conditions are safe, if the conditions are dignified, and of course it has to be voluntary,” he told Reuters.
Sentiment amongst the displaced is mixed.
Abubakar Goni, who lived outside Bama before fleeing to the Borno state capital Maiduguri, said he wants to return home, but if the town is safer he will agree to go there.
“I will support it as long as I will have a place to farm. I am also happy to hear the government will give us protection on the farm because I learnt Boko Haram men are still around.”
Others, like Tijja Modu Alhaji, are wary of potential disputes between residents of the towns where people will be sent and the returnees.
“I don’t want to stay in Bama because I will still be a stranger there, just as I am in Maiduguri now,” he said. “I want to go home, not to somebody else’s land.”
The governor’s plan is still in its early stages. It involves bringing back thousands of people who fled the town of Bama and the surrounding area and sought refuge in camps in Maiduguri and elsewhere.
They will eventually be housed in towns such as Bama, which was largely abandoned by its inhabitants when Boko Haram took it three years ago, but has since been recaptured by the military.
Many of Bama’s buildings are still shells, windows smashed, doors ripped out and roofs gone. Telephone and electricity wires remain torn down, more than two years after the military evicted Boko Haram.
It is not clear how the returnees will be housed. There are already 15,000 people in a crowded camp for displaced local residents set up by the military after it retook the town.
The United Nations had planned to move them gradually to new shelters accommodating 30,000 people that have been erected in the town, but the military said it could not oversee two camps there at the same time, UN and military officials told Reuters.
The government has announced plans to build 3,000 homes in the Bama area. But there are concerns about how people sent to the town will manage, since many did not originally live there.
“It’s one thing to move people to Bama,” said Lundberg. “Unless the engine of the economy can restart, the risk is that people are moving back to places where they will become very dependent (on aid).”
Aid workers said the demarcation between garrison towns and a lawless countryside means people have a choice: live in virtual quarantine, or return to their homes in the countryside, where Boko Haram roam, and be treated by security forces as potential insurgency sympathisers.
“You’re imprisoned, but you’re safe,” said one senior relief worker, speaking on condition of anonymity. “If you prefer your own life you can do it on the outside.”
Boko Haram’s recent attacks, including a suicide bombing that killed at least 50 in a mosque in Adamawa state last week, are the “last kicks of a dying horse,” Nigeria’s Information Minister Lai Mohammed said last Sunday.
But military and diplomatic officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said overstretched troops are unable to push Boko Haram out of non-urban areas. Much of Borno is not under the authorities’ control and attacks are rife.
On Saturday, suicide bombers killed at least 13 people in the town of Biu and injured 53 others.
“Borno is not getting better at all. It may have even gotten worse,” a diplomat said of the security situation outside urban areas. “There is no recovery and stabilisation.”


DUBAI (Reuters) - Yemen’s Houthi group has fired a cruise missile towards a nuclear power plant in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates, the group’s television service reported on its website on Sunday, without providing any evidence.
There were no reports of any missiles reaching the UAE.
The Iran-aligned Houthis control much of northern Yemen and had said Abu Dhabi, a member of the Saudi-led coalition fighting against them since 2015, was a target for their missiles.
“The missile force announces the launching of a winged cruise missile ... towards the al-Barakah nuclear reactor in Abu Dhabi,” the website said. It gave no further details.
The Barakah project, which is being built by Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO), is expected to be completed and become operational in 2018, the UAE energy minister has said.
It is the second time this year the Houthis have said they have fired missiles towards the UAE. A few months ago they said they had “successfully” test fired a missile towards Abu Dhabi.


DUBAI (Reuters) - The United Arab Emirates on Sunday denied a report that Yemen’s Houthi group had fired a missile towards a nuclear plant in the UAE, state news agency WAM reported on its Twitter account.
It quoted the UAE’s emergency and crisis management department as saying the UAE possessed a missile defence system that could deal with any such threats and adding the al-Barakah nuclear plant was secure against all eventualities.


MANILA (Reuters) - The office of the Philippine president on Sunday vowed to hold accountable those responsible for a suspended dengue immunisation programme, which it said placed thousands of lives at risk.
The Department of Health (DOH) halted on Friday the use of a dengue vaccine made by Sanofi after the company said its use must be strictly limited due to evidence it can worsen the disease in people who have not previously been exposed to the infection.
“We will leave no stone unturned in making those responsible for this shameless public health scam which puts hundreds of thousands of young lives at risk accountable,” Presidential spokesman Harry Roque said in a statement.
More than 730,000 children, ages 9 and up, received one dose of the Dengvaxia vaccine last year. The immunization programme is in line with the recommendation of the World Health Organization for mass vaccination in highly endemic countries, health officials said on Friday.
Although dengue is not as serious as malaria, it is spreading rapidly in many parts of the world. The virus kills about 20,000 people a year and infects hundreds of millions.
While Sanofi’s Dengvaxia is the first-ever approved vaccine for dengue, scientists already recognised it was not perfect and did not protect equally against the four different types of the virus in clinical tests.
A new analysis from six years of clinical data showed that Dengvaxia vaccine provides persistent protective benefit against dengue fever in those who had prior infection.
But for those not previously infected by the virus, more cases of severe disease could occur in the long term following vaccination upon a subsequent dengue infection, Sanofi said.
Roque said there had been no reported case of “severe Dengue infection” since the vaccine was administered and called on the public “not to spread information that may cause undue alarm.”
Health Secretary Francisco Duque has said his department would track the medical history of the thousands of children who were vaccinated and intensify its surveillance to ensure proper care would be given to anyone who may need it.
Senators said over the weekend they would call for an investigation into the dengue immunisation programme to find out what actions the government needed take to protect those who may be exposed to the drug’s negative effect.
Senator JV Ejercito, chairman of the Senate’s committee on health, told reporters he wanted to know as well if there was any irregularity in the procurement of the vaccine.
Sanofi Philippines said it would issue a statement on Monday.


PARIS (Reuters) - Malian soldiers killed by a French military strike in northern Mali in October were hostages of Islamist militants, not deserters turned jihadists as French authorities say, Mali’s president said in a newspaper interview published on Sunday.
Malian and French officials have given contradicting accounts of the Oct. 23 strike on a camp of the Ansar Dine militant group, which the French army said took 15 Islamists “out of action”.
France’s defence minister has said her services had “factual information” showing the fighters were all jihadists, including ex-Malian soldiers enrolled by Islamists, contradicting comments from the Malian defence ministry.
But in a interview with Jeune Afrique magazine, Malian President Ibrahim Boubakar Keita insisted that was not the case:
“They were the terrorists’ hostages and there should be no ambiguity about that between our French friends and us,” he said.
“It’s regrettable, it can unfortunately happen in this type of operations. We should admit it and not look for reasons that don’t exist.”
The Malian government is struggling to contain Tuareg and Islamist violence in northern Mali, some of which is spreading south. Attempts to place officials in northern towns have sometimes failed, raising questions about the government’s ability to maintain stability ahead of elections.
Islamist militants seized northern Mali in 2012 and French forces intervened a year later.
Around 4,000 French troops remain in West Africa’s Sahel region as part of Operation Barkhane.
France has also been at the forefront of organising a regional force as part of efforts to find a long-term strategy to exit the region.


KABUL (Reuters) - The commander of the Taliban’s “special forces” branch, known asthe “Red Unit,” was killed last week in Helmand province by Afghan forces, according to Afghanistan’s main intelligence agency.
The National Directorate of Security (NDS) said Mullah Shah Wali, also known as Mullah Naser, was killed in an air operation in Helmand.
The province is a Taliban stronghold in the heartland of Afghanistan’s lucrative drug trade.
Wali became the commander of the Taliban’s “Red Unit” as well as deputy shadow governor of Helmand province three years ago and was directly involved in Taliban offensives, the statement said.    The “Red Unit” is thought to be equipped with advanced weapons, including night vision scopes, 82mm rockets, heavy machine guns and U.S.-made assault rifles, according to the Afghan military.
Wali was killed alongside a suicide bomber and two other Taliban commanders in Helmand’s Musa Qala district, according to the NDS. The United States has worked hard to build up Afghan air support and attack capabilities since they were found inadequate after most foreign forces withdrew three years ago.


SIMI VALLEY, Calif. (Reuters) - U.S. Central Intelligence Agency Director Mike Pompeo said on Saturday he sent a letter to Iranian Major General Qassem Soleimani and Iranian leaders expressing concern regarding Iran’s increasingly threatening behaviour in Iraq.
Speaking during a panel at the annual Reagan National Defense Forum in Southern California, Pompeo said he sent the letter after the senior Iranian military commander had indicated that forces under his control might attack U.S. forces in Iraq. He did not specify the date.
“What we were communicating to him in that letter was that we will hold he and Iran accountable for any attacks on American interests in Iraq by forces that are under their control,” Pompeo told the panel.
“We wanted to make sure he and the leadership in Iran understood that in a way that was crystal clear.”
Soleimani, who is the commander of foreign operations for Iran’s elite Revolutionary Guards, refused to open the letter, according to Pompeo, who took over the CIA in January.
Iranian media earlier quoted Mohammad Mohammadi Golpayegani, a senior aide to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, as saying an unnamed CIA contact had tried to give a letter to Soleimani when he was in the Syrian town of Albu Kamal in November during the fighting against Islamic State.
“I will not take your letter nor read it and I have nothing to say to these people,” Golpayegani quoted Soleimani as saying, according to the semi-official news agency Fars.
Reuters reported in October that Soleimani had repeatedly warned Kurdish leaders in northern Iraq to withdraw from the oil city of Kirkuk or face an onslaught by Iraqi forces and allied Iranian-backed fighters, and had travelled to Iraq’s Kurdistan region to meet Kurdish leaders.
The presence of Soleimani on the frontlines highlights Tehran’s heavy sway over policy in Iraq, and comes as Shi‘ite Iran seeks to win a proxy war in the Middle East with its regional rival and U.S. ally, Sunni Saudi Arabia.
A U.S.-led coalition has been fighting Islamic State in Iraq and Syria and is often in proximity to Iran-allied militia fighting Isis there.
“You need to only look to the past few weeks and the efforts of the Iranians to exert influence now in Northern Iraq in addition to other places in Iraq to see that Iranian efforts to be the hegemonic power throughout the Middle East continues to increase,” Pompeo said.
The CIA chief said Saudi Arabia had grown more willing to share intelligence with other Middle Eastern nations regarding Iran and Islamist extremism.
The Israeli government said last month that Israel had covert contacts with Saudi Arabia amid common concerns over Iran, a first disclosure by a senior official from either country of long-rumoured secret dealings.
“We’ve seen them work with the Israelis to push back against terrorism throughout the Middle East, to the extent we can continue to develop those relationships and work alongside them - the Gulf states and broader Middle East will likely be more secure,” said Pompeo.


SIMI VALLEY, Calif (Reuters) - The U.S. agency tasked with protecting the country from missile attacks is scouting the West Coast for places to deploy new anti-missile defences, two Congressmen said on Saturday, as North Korea’s missile tests raise concerns about how the United States would defend itself from an attack.
West Coast defences would likely include Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) anti-ballistic missiles, similar to those deployed in South Korea to protect against a potential North Korean attack.
The accelerated pace of North Korea’s ballistic missile testing programme in 2017 and the likelihood the North Korean military could hit the U.S. mainland with a nuclear payload in the next few years has raised the pressure on the United States government to build-up missile defences.
On Wednesday, North Korea tested a new type of intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) that can fly over 13,000 km (8,080 miles), placing Washington within target range, South Korea said on Friday.
Congressman Mike Rogers, who sits on the House Armed Services Committee and chairs the Strategic Forces Subcommittee which oversees missile defence, said the Missile Defense Agency (MDA), was aiming to install extra defences at West Coast sites. The funding for the system does not appear in the 2018 defence budget plan indicating potential deployment is further off.
“It’s just a matter of the location, and the MDA making a recommendation as to which site meets their criteria for location, but also the environmental impact,” the Alabama Congressman and Republican told Reuters during an interview on the sidelines of the annual Reagan National Defense Forum in southern California.
When asked about the plan, MDA Deputy Director Rear Admiral Jon Hill‎ said in a statement: “The Missile Defense Agency has received no tasking to site the Terminal High Altitude Air Defense System on the West Coast.”
The MDA is a unit of the U.S. Defense Department.
Congressman Rogers did not reveal the exact locations the agency is considering but said several sites are “competing” for the missile defence installations.
Rogers and Congressman Adam Smith, a Democrat representing the 9th District of Washington, said the government was considering installing the THAAD anti-missile system made by aerospace giant Lockheed Martin Corp (LMT.N), at west coast sites.
The Congressmen said the number of sites that may ultimately be deployed had yet to be determined.
THAAD is a ground-based regional missile defence system designed to shoot down short-, medium- and intermediate-range ballistic missiles and takes only a matter of weeks to install.
In addition to the two THAAD systems deployed in South Korea and Guam in the Pacific, the U.S. has seven other THAAD systems. While some of the existing missiles are based in Fort Bliss, Texas, the system is highly mobile and current locations are not disclosed.
A Lockheed Martin representative declined to comment on specific THAAD deployments, but added that the company “is ready to support the Missile Defense Agency and the United States government in their ballistic missile defence efforts.” He added that testing and deployment of assets is a government decision.
In July, the United States tested THAAD missile defences and shot down a simulated, incoming intermediate-range ballistic missile (IRBM). The successful test adds to the credibility of the U.S. military’s missile defence programme, which has come under intense scrutiny in recent years due in part to test delays and failures.
Currently, the continental United States is primarily shielded by the Ground-based Midcourse Defense system (GMD) in Alaska and California as well as the Aegis system deployed aboard U.S. Navy ships. The THAAD system has a far higher testing success rate than the GMD.
The MDA told Congress in June that it planned to deliver 52 more THAAD interceptors to the U.S. Army between October 2017 and September 2018, bringing total deliveries to 210 since May 2011.
North Korea’s latest missile test puts the U.S. capital within range, but Pyongyang still needs to prove it has mastered critical missile technology, such as re-entry, terminal stage guidance and warhead activation, South Korea said on Friday.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The sweeping tax overhaul that passed the U.S. Senate on Saturday contains the Republicans’ biggest blow yet to former President Barack Obama’s healthcare law, repealing the requirement that all Americans obtain health insurance.
The individual mandate is meant to ensure a viable health insurance market by forcing younger and healthier Americans to buy coverage to help offset the cost of sicker patients. It helps uphold the most popular provision of the law, which requires insurers charge sick and healthy people the same rates.
Removing it while keeping the rest of Obama’s Affordable Care Act intact is expected to cause insurance premiums to rise and lead to millions of people losing coverage, policy experts say.
“It’s going to take a bunch of healthy people out of the insurance market,” said Craig Garthwaite, director of the healthcare programme at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management.
Obamacare “is going to collapse even more now,” he said.
Republican lawmakers failed several times this year to scrap the mandate as part of a broader repeal of Obamacare, blocked by opposition from a few of the party’s senators, including Susan Collins of Maine.
Collins, still opposed to removing the mandate, said she voted for the tax bill on Saturday after being assured by Republican leaders that they will support legislation to prop up U.S. health insurance markets.
The tax bill is not yet final. The U.S. House of Representatives and Senate must now reconcile the differences in their respective versions of the legislation.
“Repealing the individual mandate simply restores to people the freedom to choose,” Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski, who has opposed previous Obamacare repeal efforts, wrote in an opinion piece in Alaska’s Fairbanks Daily News-Miner.
“Instead of taxing people for not being able to afford coverage, we should be working to reduce costs and provide options.”
One of the Obamacare stabilization bills, co-authored by Republican Senator Lamar Alexander and Democratic Senator Patty Murray, would restore billions of dollars in subsidies that health insurers use to reduce out-of-pocket costs for low income Americans.
A second, co-authored by Collins and Democratic Senator Bill Nelson, would create an additional $4.5 billion fund to compensate insurers for covering health care for the sickest patients.
Still, health policy experts said both of those measures would be needed without a mandate repeal and would not make up for expected premium increases and the rise in the numbers of uninsured Americans.
“Neither of these bills would do anything to offset the increase in uninsured resulting from a mandate repeal,” said Larry Levitt, health economist at the Kaiser Family Foundation. “The marketplaces would limp along without a mandate but it’s probably not a stable place.”
Without the mandate, health insurance premiums would rise 10 percent in most years over the next decade on the individual market and 13 million people would lose coverage by 2027, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said in a report last month. 
Levitt said that insurers would need around $10 billion per year to offset the lost revenue from the individual mandate rather than raise premiums.
Republicans, who control the White House, U.S. House of Representatives and Senate, failed for months to make good on a top campaign pledge of President Donald Trump.
Trump has said Congress will return to repeal-and-replace efforts next year and over the past several months has taken regulatory and executive actions to steadily undermine the Obamacare law.  
Insurers and leading medical groups have already urged Congress to preserve the individual mandate and warned of “serious consequences” such as rising premiums and a rise in the number of uninsured if it were repealed.


JERUSALEM (Reuters) - About 20,000 Israelis demonstrated in Tel Aviv on Saturday against government corruption and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu who is under criminal investigation over allegations of abuse of office.
The demonstration was by far the largest of weekly anti-corruption protests sparked by corruption allegations against Netanyahu, who denies any wrongdoing.
The four-term leader is suspected of involvement in two cases. The first involves receiving gifts from wealthy businessmen and the second involves negotiating a deal with a newspaper owner for better coverage in return for curbs on a rival daily.
Saturday’s protest was prompted by a draft law expected to be ratified by parliament next week, which would bar police from publishing its findings in two investigations of Netanyahu.
A Reuters cameraman and Israeli media put the number of demonstrators at about 20,000. Police would not provide an official estimate.
Critics say the draft law is a blatant attempt to protect Netanyahu and keep the public in the dark about his investigation. Supporters of the legislation say it is meant to protect suspects’ rights.
Netanyahu has said he has no interest in promoting personal legislation but he has not ordered its two sponsors, close confidants in his Likud party, to withdraw the bill.
Netanyahu has described himself as a victim of a political witch hunt and said of the cases against him: “There will be nothing because there is nothing.”
If charged, he would come under heavy pressure to resign or could call an election to test whether he still had a mandate.


MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Australia’s former Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce will return to parliament after he won an essential by-election for his seat, just over a month after he was kicked out over a dual citizenship crisis that cost the conservative coalition government its majority.
Joyce, who was widely expected to win, said he was “utterly humbled” by his sizeable victory in the rural New South Wales seat of New England, in which he looks likely to increase his primary vote by an additional 10 points.
ABC election analyst Antony Green reported that Joyce is on track to achieve a primary vote of about 64 percent, a significant increase on his 52.3 percent primary at the last federal election in 2016.
The win gives the government and its embattled prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, some much-needed breathing space, as it restores its slim one-seat majority. The government is already claiming the victory as a vote of confidence of its performance, despite a series of polls showing its growing unpopularity.
“This has been a stunning victory,” Turnbull told supporters as he joined Joyce at a pub in the town of Tamworth to celebrate the win.
Exit polls were predicting “the largest swing to the government in the history of by-elections in Australia”, Turnbull said, adding it was a sign of confidence in his government.
Joyce added that he was “completely and utterly humbled”, after winning from a record field of 17 candidates.
“I say to the people of New England, that I never take anything for granted, and for every person who voted for us and voted for us for the first time,” he said, the ABC reported.
Joyce was one of the “Citizenship Seven” whose eligibility to sit in parliament was thrown into doubt when it was found they were dual citizens, a status that is barred for federal politicians under Australia’s constitution to prevent split allegiances.
The High Court ruled on Oct. 27 that Joyce, along with four of the seven other lawmakers, was ineligible to remain in parliament, forcing a by-election. Joyce was found to be a dual citizen of New Zealand, a status he has since rescinded.
A by-election occurs outside of the usual three-year election cycle, usually when a representative decides to leave parliament early or dies.
The deputy leader position, traditionally held by a member of the junior coalition partner, the National Party, has remained vacant since the High Court ruling.
The result comes at a difficult time for Turnbull, who earlier this week was forced into an embarrassing reversal of his long-standing position against a Royal Commission into the country’s scandal-hit banking and financial sector amid mounting political pressure.
The last day of campaigning for the by-election was marred by a call from New South Wales Nationals state leader and deputy premier John Barilaro for Turnbull to step down as a “Christmas gift” to the nation.
The comments were quickly rebuffed by Liberal Party lawmakers and Joyce, who said they were “very unhelpful” and “insulting.”
It was the latest of a long line of internal turmoil to hit the coalition throughout the year, which has contributed to its poor performance in polls throughout the year.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Former national security adviser Michael Flynn pleaded guilty on Friday to lying to the FBI about his contacts with Russia, and he agreed to cooperate with prosecutors delving into the actions of President Donald Trump’s inner circle before he took office.
The dramatic turn of events also raised new questions about whether Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, had a role in those Russia contacts.
Flynn was the first member of Trump’s administration to plead guilty to a crime uncovered by special counsel Robert Mueller’s wide-ranging investigation into Russian attempts to influence the 2016 U.S. election and potential collusion by Trump aides.
Under a plea bargain deal, Flynn admitted in a Washington court that he lied when asked by FBI investigators about his conversations last December with Russia’s then-ambassador, Sergei Kislyak, just weeks before Trump took office.
Prosecutors said the two men discussed U.S. sanctions against Russia and that Flynn also asked Kislyak to help delay a U.N. vote seen as damaging to Israel. On both occasions, he appeared to be undermining the policies of outgoing President Barack Obama.
They also said a “very senior member” of Trump’s transition team had told Flynn to contact Russia and other foreign governments to try to influence them ahead of the U.N. vote.
Sources told Reuters that the “very senior” official was Kushner, a key member of Trump’s transition team and now the president’s senior adviser.
Kushner’s lawyer, Abbe Lowell, did not respond to multiple requests for comment. He has previously said Kushner has voluntarily cooperated with all relevant inquiries and would continue to do so.
Flynn’s decision to cooperate with Mueller’s team marked a major escalation in a probe that has dogged the president since he took office in January.
There was nothing in the court hearing that pointed to any evidence against Trump, and the White House said Flynn’s guilty plea implicated him alone.
“Nothing about the guilty plea or the charge implicates anyone other than Mr. Flynn,” said Ty Cobb, a White House attorney.
Flynn, a retired army lieutenant general, only served as Trump’s national security adviser for 24 days. He was forced to resign after he was found to have misled Vice President Mike Pence about his discussions with Kislyak.
But Flynn had been an enthusiastic supporter of Trump’s election campaign and the president continued to praise him even after he left the administration, saying Flynn had been treated “very, very unfairly” by the news media.
A small group of protesters yelled “Lock him up!” as Flynn left the courthouse on Friday, echoing the “Lock her up!” chant that Flynn himself led against Trump’s Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton, in vitriolic appearances on the campaign trail.
Mueller’s team is also looking at whether members of Trump’s campaign may have sought to ease sanctions on Russia in return for financial gain or because Russian officials held some leverage over them, people familiar with the probe say.
Prosecutors said Flynn and Kislyak last December discussed economic sanctions that Obama’s administration had just imposed on Moscow for allegedly interfering in the election.
Flynn asked Kislyak to refrain from escalating a diplomatic dispute with Washington over the sanctions, and later falsely told FBI officials that he did not make that request, court documents showed.
Prosecutors said Flynn had earlier consulted with a senior member of Trump’s presidential transition team about what to communicate to the Russian ambassador.
”Flynn called the Russian ambassador and requested that Russia not escalate the situation and only respond to the U.S. sanctions in a reciprocal manner,” the prosecutors said in court documents, adding that Flynn then called the Trump official again to recount the conversation with Kislyak.
They did not name the senior official in the Trump team but    U.S. media reports identified former adviser K.T. McFarland as the person. Reuters was unable to verify the reports.
On Dec. 28, 2016, the day before prosecutors say the call between the Trump aides took place, Trump had publicly played down the need to sanction Russia for allegedly hacking U.S. Democratic operatives.
“I think we ought to get on with our lives. I think that computers have complicated lives very greatly,” Trump told reporters at his Mar-a-Lago Florida resort.
Ryan Goodman, a professor at New York University Law School, said Flynn’s plea deal shows Mueller is scrutinizing the truthfulness of testimony given to his investigators. Kushner is potentially liable for making false statements if his testimony is contradicted by Flynn, Goodman said.
Earlier on Friday, ABC News cited a Flynn confidant as saying Flynn was ready to testify that Trump directed him to make contact with Russians before he became president, initially as a way to work together to fight the Islamic State group in Syria.
Reuters could not immediately verify the ABC News report.
U.S. stocks, the dollar and Treasury yields fell sharply after the ABC report, although they partially rebounded on optimism that a Republican bill to cut taxes will be approved in the U.S. Senate.
If Trump directed Flynn to contact Russian officials, that might not necessarily amount to a crime. It would be a crime if it were proven that Trump directed Flynn to lie to the FBI.
Moscow has denied what U.S. intelligence agencies say was meddling in the election campaign to try to sway the vote in Trump’s favour. Trump has called Mueller’s probe a witch hunt.
In May, the president fired FBI Director James Comey, who later accused Trump of trying to hinder his investigation into the Russia allegations. Comey also said he believed Trump had asked him to drop the FBI’s probe into Flynn.
Comey on Friday tweeted a cryptic message about justice.
“But let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream, ‘Amos 5:24’,” he wrote, quoting the Biblical book of Amos.
Paul Manafort, who ran Trump’s presidential campaign for several months last year, was charged in October with conspiring to launder money, conspiracy against the United States and failing to register as a foreign agent of Ukraine’s former pro-Russian government.
Manafort, who did not join Trump’s administration, and a business associate who was charged with him both pleaded not guilty.


ABOARD THE PAPAL PLANE (Reuters) - Pope Francis on Saturday urged world leaders to turn back from the brink of possible human annihilation, suggesting that some of them had an “irrational” attitude towards nuclear weapons.
The pope made his comments to reporters aboard the plane taking him back to Rome from a trip to Myanmar and Bangladesh, which was dominated by the crisis of Rohingya refugees affecting both countries.
In a speech last month, the pope suggested that he was ready to officially harden the decades-old Church teaching that possessing nuclear weapons as a deterrence was morally acceptable as long as the ultimate goal was their elimination.
In that speech on Nov. 10, Francis said even the mere possession of nuclear weapons should now be condemned because there appeared to be little or no intention by world leaders to reduce their numbers.
Aboard the plane, he was asked what had prompted him to consider changing the official Church position and specifically, what he felt about the war of words between U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
“What has changed is the irrationality (of the attitude toward nuclear weapons),” Francis said.
”Today we are at the limit,“ he said. It can be debated but it is my opinion, my conviction, that we have reached the limit of the (moral) licitness of having and using nuclear weapons,” he said.
“Why? Because today, with such a sophisticated nuclear arsenal, we risk the destruction of humanity or at least a great part of humanity,” he said.
The pope has in the past suggested that a third nation should try to negotiate a deal between the United States and North Korea and had urged both sides to cool down the rhetoric and stop trading insults.
”We are at the limit, and because we are at the limit, I ask myself this question ... Today, is it licit to keep nuclear arsenals as they are, or today, in order to save creation, to save humanity, is it not necessary to turn back?
South Korea said on Friday that North Korea’s latest missile test puts Washington within range, but Pyongyang still needs to prove it has mastered critical missile technology, such as re-entry, terminal stage guidance and warhead activation.
The test prompted a warning from the United States that North Korea’s leadership would be “utterly destroyed” if war were to break out, a statement that drew sharp criticism from Russia.


(Reuters) - American Mikaela Shiffrin notched up her first career World Cup win in downhill at Canada’s Lake Louise on Saturday, one day after reaching her first ever podium in the discipline.
The 22-year-old skiing prodigy completed the course in one minute 27.55 seconds in just her fourth career downhill race.
Germany’s Viktoria Rebensburg, in 1:27.68, finished second and Michelle Gisin (1:27.72) of Switzerland was third.
Shiffrin now leads the women’s overall World Cup standings as well as the downhill standings with just over two months to go until the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang.
The win comes less than a week after Shiffrin won the World Cup slalom for the second year in a row at Killington in Vermont. She now has 33 career World Cup wins.
A day after suffering a nasty crash toward the end of her run, fellow American Lindsey Vonn (1:28.48) took a conservative approach to the course, where she is an 18-time champion.
The veteran Vonn, who skied with a brace on her right knee, finished tied in 12th with Italy’s Verena Stuffer and was almost a second behind Shiffrin.
While Vonn completed the course without incident, her team mate Breezy Johnson was not so lucky.
The 21-year-old American slid out after hitting a bump during a turn but skied off the course under her own power.
The start of Saturday’s race was delayed by an hour and 15 minutes due to a power outage at the resort caused by a fire at a substation.
The outage meant the skiers had to ride in snowcats or get towed to the top of the hill for the start.
Speed events continue at Lake Louise on Sunday with the first women’s super-G of the season.


PARIS/BAGHDAD (Reuters) - French President Emmanuel Macron on Saturday called on Iraq to dismantle all militias, including the government-sanctioned, Iran-backed Popular Mobilisation Forces (PMF), a rare public call to do so by a major Western leader.
Macron’s call, which followed a meeting with Iraqi Kurdish leaders in Paris, underscores the tough balancing act Baghdad has to perform between its allies in the war on Islamic State, Iran and Western powers, which do not see eye to eye.
“It is essential that there is a gradual demilitarisation, in particular of the Popular Mobilisation that established itself in the last few years in Iraq, and that all militias be gradually dismantled,” he told a Paris news conference held with Iraqi Kurdish leaders.
Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) authorities accuse the majority Arab Shi‘ite PMF of widespread abuses against Kurds in Iraq’s ethnically mixed regions.
Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi’s government denies that the PMF are engaged in a systematic pattern of abuses and has pledged to punish anyone proven guilty of violations.
Disarming the PMF is seen as Abadi’s most difficult test as his forces edge closer to declaring victory over Islamic State.
In Baghdad, Abadi’s office released a statement later saying he had spoken to Macron by phone and that the French president had affirmed his country’s commitment to a unified Iraq. It made no mention of Macron’s call to dismantle the militias.
Iraqi Vice President Nuri al-Maliki, a former prime minister who was pressured to leave office by both the U.S. and Iran for failing to stop Islamic State, was more forceful.
Macron, he said, was carrying out “unacceptable interference” in Iraq’s internal affairs. “These positions from France are absolutely rejected and harm Iraq’s sovereignty and its institutions,” Maliki said in a statement.
Macron’s meeting with KRG Prime Minister Nechirvan Barzani and his deputy Qubad Talabani was the first high-profile international meeting for the Kurdish leadership after a Sept. 25 independence referendum.
U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and British Prime Minister Theresa May have both made trips to Iraq after the referendum but only met officials in Baghdad and made no visits to the KRG capital Erbil.
Western powers had encouraged the Kurds not to hold the referendum and instead engage in dialogue with Baghdad.
‘CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE’
Macron again called for dialogue between the central government in Baghdad and the semi-autonomous KRG within the framework of the Iraqi constitution, saying he was convinced a “constructive dialogue” could lead to lifting Baghdad’s restrictions on the Kurdish region.
Kurds voted to break away from Iraq in the referendum, defying the government in Baghdad and alarming neighbouring Turkey and Iran who have their own Kurdish minorities.
The Iraqi government responded by seizing the Kurdish-held city of Kirkuk and other territory disputed between the Kurds and the central government.
Long-serving Kurdish president Masoud Barzani stepped down over the affair and the regional government led by his nephew Nechirvan has tried to negotiate an end to the confrontation.
The Kurdish prime minister said on Saturday he saw France playing a role to end the dispute with Baghdad and that his government respected a verdict by the Iraqi Supreme Federal Court ruling the referendum unconstitutional and its results void.
“With regards to the referendum, we are in a new era, and this issue is over and we have made our position in the Kurdistan Regional Government clear,” Erbil-based broadcaster Rudaw quoted Barzani as saying.
Macron called for the long-delayed implementation of Article 140 of the Iraqi constitution to settle the status of territories disputed between Baghdad and the Kurds.
Article 140 provided for a referendum to be held by the end of 2007 in the oil region of Kirkuk and other territories claimed by both the KRG and the Iraqi government to determine whether their populations wanted to be part of the Kurdish region or not.
No such referendum took place, among the reasons cited by the KRG to unilaterally hold its referendum on independence.


BUCHAREST (Reuters) - Romanian protesters clashed with riot police on Saturday when they stopped construction workers from building a Christmas fair at the site of anti-corruption demonstrations in Bucharest.
Victory Square saw big street protests at the beginning of the year following attempts by the ruling Social Democrats to decriminalize some corruption offences and has been a gathering place for largely peaceful protests since.
Further demonstrations have been announced on social media  as parliament gears up to approve a judicial overhaul that has been criticized by thousands of magistrates, centrist President Klaus Iohannis, the European Commission and the U.S. State Department.
Earlier this week Bucharest mayor Gabriela Firea, a senior Social Democrat member, said she would stage a Christmas fair for most of December in the square - a decision which Social Democrat Prime Minister Mihai Tudose said was not “the most inspired.”
On Saturday, protesters began dismantling the scaffolding and fences  for the fair, waving flags and chanting “We won’t give Victory Square up,” and “Firea, don’t forget, this square is not yours.”
Three protesters were taken to a police station, riot police spokesman Georgian Enache told state news agency Agerpres. He added one of them was accused of hitting another citizen.
“We are asking Bucharest city hall to abandon immediately ... the move to fence in Victory square,” protest activists said in a statement on Facebook page Corruption Kills.
“We urge citizens to protest firmly but non-violently. We must stop this treacherous and rudimentary attempt by mayor Gabriela Firea to discourage protests at a time when they will be crucial for the future of this country.”
“This means the beginning of anarchy,” Firea said in a statement later. She said she would find another place to locate the fair.
“If the capital’s city hall was prevented from organising an event in a public space which belongs to everyone today, similar events could happen tomorrow at the presidential office, parliament and other public institutions.”


CAIRO (Reuters) - Any move by the United States to recognise Jerusalem as Israel’s capital would fuel extremism and violence, Arab League Secretary-General Ahmed Aboul Gheit said on Saturday.
He spoke a day after a senior U.S. administration official said U.S. President Donald Trump was likely to make the announcement next week.
The Palestinians want Jerusalem as the capital of their future state, and the international community does not recognise Israel’s claim on all of the city, home to sites holy to the Jewish, Muslim and Christian religions.
Word of Trump’s planned announcement, which would deviate from previous U.S. presidents who have insisted the Jerusalem’s status must be decided in negotiations, has already drawn criticism from the Palestinian Authority.
“Today we say very clearly that taking such action is not justified ... It will not serve peace or stability, but will fuel extremism and resort to violence,” Aboul Gheit said in a statement published on the Arab league’s website.
“It only benefits one side; the Israeli government that is hostile to peace,” he added.


ADEN (Reuters) - Former Yemeni president Ali Abdullah Saleh said on Saturday he was ready for a “new page” in ties with the Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen if it stopped attacks on his country, in a move that could pave the way to end nearly three years of war.
The apparent shift in position came as Saleh’s supporters battled Houthi fighters for a fourth day in the capital Sanaa, in fighting which the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said has killed dozens of people and prompted calls to protect civilians.
The fighting was the most serious since the Houthis and Saleh’s General People’s Congress (GPC) made common cause against the Saudi-led coalition which joined the Yemen war in 2015 to try to restore the internationally recognised government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi to power.
The clashes between Saleh’s supporters and the Houthis underscore the complex situation in Yemen, one of the poorest countries in the Middle East, where a proxy war between the Iran-aligned Houthis and the Saudi-backed Hadi has caused one of the worst humanitarian catastrophes in recent times.
“I call upon the brothers in neighbouring states and the alliance to stop their aggression, lift the siege, open the airports and allow food aid and the saving of the wounded and we will turn a new page by virtue of our neighbourliness,” Saleh said in a televised speech.
“We will deal with them in a positive way and what happened to Yemen is enough,” he added.
Saleh, who was forced to step down by a 2011 mass uprising against his 33 years in office, said Yemen’s parliament, which is dominated by the GPC, was the only legitimate power in the country and was ready for talks with the coalition.
The Saudi-led coalition welcomed Saleh’s change of stance.
In a statement carried by the Saudi-owned Al-Hadath channel, the coalition said it was “confident of the will of the leaders and sons” of Saleh’s GPC party to return to Arab fold.
Hadi, in a statement after a meeting with his advisors, also said he was ready to work with Saleh against the Houthis.
“The meeting calls for turning a new page with all the political sides ... and to form a broad national coalition that will lay the foundations for a new era and unify everyone  against the coup militia,” the statement said.
The coalition accuses non-Arab Iran of trying to expand its influence into Arab countries, including Yemen, which shares a long border with Saudi Arabia, by aligning themselves with the Houthis and Saleh.
The Houthis accused Saleh of betrayal, and vowed to keep up the fight against the Saudi-led coalition.
“It is not strange or surprising that Saleh turns his back on a partnership he never believed in,” the group’s political bureau said in a statement. “The priority has been and still is to confront the forces of aggression.”
The Houthi group leader, Abdel-Malek al-Houthi, had earlier appealed to Saleh to avoid any escalation, saying that the crisis would only serve Yemen’s enemies.
Residents of Sanaa described heavy fighting in Hadda, a southern residential district where many of Saleh’s relatives live, early on Saturday, with sounds of explosions and gunfire heard while the streets were deserted.
The fighting eased in the afternoon as Saleh supporters gained the upper hand.
There was no immediate word on casualties, but ICRC Regional Director Robert Mardini, writing on his Twitter account, said that dozens have been killed and hundreds were wounded in the fighting which began on Wednesday after a dispute erupted over a mosque in the capital.
Both sides have reported that each side has lost eight fighters.
The United Nations envoy to Yemen, Ismail Ould Cheikh Ahmed, and the ICRC urged the parties to avoid targeting civilians.
Saleh’s GPC party accused the Houthis of failing to honour a truce and said in a statement on its website that the Houthis bear responsibility for dragging the country into a civil war.
It also called on supporters, including tribal fighters, to “defend themselves, their country, their revolution and their republic...”
The GPC appealed to the army and security forces to remain neutral in the conflict.
Yemen’s war has killed more than 10,000 people since 2015, displaced more than two million people, caused a cholera outbreak infecting nearly one million people and led the country on the brink of famine.


(Reuters) - Zimbabwe’s new president Emmerson Mnangagwa dropped his education minister, a day after reappointing him to a cabinet which gave top posts to senior military officials in what was widely seen as a reward for the army’s role in the removal of his predecessor, Robert Mugabe.
Mnangagwa made other changes to the cabinet that his chief secretary  Misheck Sibanda called “adjustments to ensure compliance with the Constitution and considerations of gender, demography and special needs”.
Under the Zimbabwean constitution, ministers and their deputies have to be members of parliament, except five who can be chosen for their professional skills and competence. Mnangagwa had named as ministers seven people, including Major-General Sibusiso Moyo as foreign minister and Marshall Perrance Shiri to the sensitive land portfolio, who are not lawmakers.
He replaced primary and higher education minister Lazaraus Dokora with his deputy Paul Mavima. Dokora’s reappointment had caused an outcry from Zimbabweans on social media and radio shows who slammed him for poor performance and undermining the country’s education system.
He also named ZANU-PF lawmaker Petronella Kagonye to the labour and social welfare portfolio, replacing university professor Clever Nyathi who was appointed special advisor in the president’s office on national peace and reconciliation.
Chris Mutsvanga, leader of the powerful war veterans’ association and who was named media, information and broadcast minister, has also been appointed special advisor to the president.
Sworn in as president last Friday after 93-year-old Mugabe quit in the wake of a de facto military coup, Mnangagwa’s cabinet drew criticisms from analysts and Zimbabweans who had expected a more broad-based lineup that marked a break from the Mugabe era.


DHAKA (Reuters) - Pope Francis ended a diplomatically tricky trip to Asia on Saturday, seeking the forgiveness of Rohingya Muslim refugees in Bangladesh after his controversial decision to not directly refer to their plight when he visited their homeland, Myanmar.
On the last day of his three-day visit to Bangladesh, which came after meetings in Buddhist-majority Myanmar, the pope went to a home in Dhaka founded by Mother Teresa for orphans, unwed mothers and destitute elderly.
Later in a speech to an audience of around 7,000 young Catholics, Muslims and followers of other religions, the pope spoke about welcoming and accepting those who “act and think differently than ourselves”.
“When a people, a religion or a society turns into a ‘little world’, they lose the best that they have and plunge into a self-righteous mentality of ‘I am good and you are bad’,” Francis said at the Notre Dame College, founded by Catholic priests.
He also asked his young listeners to “not spend the whole day playing with your phone and ignoring the world around you!”
Francis said he was very pleased by an inter-religious meeting on Friday night, where he had an emotional meeting with refugees from Myanmar and then used the word Rohingya for the first time on his current trip, saying they had God within them and should be respected. He also sought their forgiveness in the name of all who persecuted them.
Previously, in Myanmar, he followed the advice of Myanmar Church officials who said his use of the word could prompt a backlash against Christians and hurt that country’s fragile path to democracy.
That had disappointed rights groups such as Amnesty International, which has said Myanmar’s “security forces were carrying out a systematic, organised and ruthless campaign of violence against the Rohingya population.”
Myanmar’s military has denied the allegations.
The country does not recognise the stateless Rohingya as an ethnic group with its own identity and considers them as illegal immigrants from Bangladesh.
Mother Teresa, who started the Missionaries of Charity to serve “the poorest of the poor,” opened the Dhaka home in the early 1970s to look after Bengali women who became pregnant as a result of rape by Pakistani soldiers during the war of independence.
The pope made an impromptu address to nuns and priests at the home during which he praised Bangladesh, a Muslim-majority country where Catholics make up less than one percent of its around 169 million people, for having what he called some of the best inter-religious relations in the world.
His words of appreciation have been welcomed by Bangladesh, which was already home to around 400,000 Rohingya Muslims before nearly 625,000 more came since August after the Myanmar army launched an offensive in response to attacks on security posts by Rohingya militants.
Bangladesh last week signed an agreement to return the refugees over time, “while at the same time expanding refugee camps and constructing tens of thousands of shelters for them in Bangladesh until they are able to return”, a statement issued on behalf of the government said.
“Dear friends in Myanmar and Bangladesh, thank you for your welcome!” Francis said on Twitter as his flight took off. “Upon you I invoke divine blessings of harmony and peace.”


PHNOM PENH (Reuters) - Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen has pulled back from a threat to close a human rights group founded by the detained opposition leader Kem Sokha, a pro-government website said on Saturday.
The move follows a visit by Hun Sen to Cambodia’s main ally China and comes as the veteran leader is under fire from Western donors for a crackdown on the opposition.
The rights group, the Cambodian Center for Human Rights, was founded in 2002 by Kem Sokha, who was arrested in September and charged with treason for an alleged plot to take power with American help.
“The government decided to keep (CCHR) so it continues to serve human rights activities in Cambodia, and as a result of the Ministry of Interior’s finding, there are no illegal acts,” Hun Sen was quoted as saying by Freshnews.
Kem Sokha has rejected the charges against him, which the opposition calls a ploy to ensure Hun Sen extends his more than three decades in power at next year’s election.
Kem Sokha’s party, the Cambodia National Rescue Party (CNRP), was dissolved on Nov. 16 by the Supreme Court, acting at the government’s request.
In response to the crackdown, the United States has stopped funding for the election and the European Union has raised a potential threat to Cambodia’s duty free access if it does not respect human rights.
The statement was released as Hun Sen held a two-day ceremony at the famed Angkor Wat temple to pray for peace and stability in Cambodia. He sat beside his wife Bun Rany and pressed his hands together while Buddhist monks chanted prayers.
Mu Sochua, a deputy to Kem Sokha who fled the crackdown in Cambodia, said the nation’s deep divisions could not be healed in one ceremony.
“Peace for Cambodia can not be achieved through just a ceremony. Peace is about full respect of human rights, freedoms, liberties and rule of law,” Mu Sochua told Reuters.
Chak Sopheap, executive director of the rights group CCHR, said she and other staffs were “incredibly relieved” by the news.
“With this investigation out of the way, we can get back to focussing on our core mission, the work of promoting respect for human rights in Cambodia,” Chak Sopheap said in a Facebook post.


DUBAI (Reuters) - The Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen said on Saturday it was confident that leaders of former Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s General People’s Congress Party (GPC) would return to the Arab fold.
The comments, carried by the Saudi-owned Al-Hadath news channel, came after Saleh said he was ready to turn a new page with the coalition if it stopped what he described as its aggression on Yemen and lifted restrictions on transportation.
The coalition accuses Saleh of having betrayed his Arab neighbours by joining the Houthi-led forces they say are aligned with non-Arab Iran.


DUBAI (Reuters) - Former Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh on Saturday called on the Saudi-led coalition to pave the way for an end to nearly three years of war by ceasing attacks and lifting a siege.
Saleh, whose call came as his supporters fought allied Houthi forces in the capital Sana‘a, said on television that he was ready to turn a new page if the coalition agreed to his demands.


MUMBAI (Reuters) - Cyclone Ockhi barrelled into the Lakshwadeep islands in southwestern India on Saturday after drenching the neighboring states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, claiming so far around 14 lives with many fishermen still feared trapped at sea.
Authorities including the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), India’s Coast Guard and Navy have rescued about 223 fishermen and evacuated thousands of people from cyclone hit areas, officials said, as they continued their operations on Saturday.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spoken to the chief minister of Tamil Nadu, assuring him of support operations including necessary funds, according to local media.
Ockhi is expected to travel north towards Mumbai and Gujarat in the next 48 hours, according to Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) Director S. Sudevan in Trivandrum, though it is likely to lose intensity.
“The intensity of the wind may come down and the cyclone could change into depression,” Sudevan said adding fishermen have been warned not go to the sea for the next few days as waves are likely to be 3-5 meters (12-15 feet) high.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - When Republicans tried to repeal and replace Obamacare over the summer, they acted like “a bunch of free range chickens”, said Republican Senator John Kennedy. “Everybody was upset, tired, mad, people drawing lines in the dirt.”
Not this time. Republican leader Mitch McConnell and the rest of his party’s Senate leadership brought party members into line this week and finally won passage of a sweeping tax overhaul early on Saturday.
Late arm-twisting and deal-sweeteners for wavering lawmakers allowed them to push through legislation that aims to slash corporate taxes and cut personal taxes.
Democrats complained it was a bad deal for middle-class and poor Americans and would irresponsibly raise the national debt by $1.4 trillion over the next decade. But they were outnumbered and Republicans’ discipline, in short supply for much of this year, saw the bill through.
The debate revealed how the Republican Party is undergoing a transformation under President Donald Trump. Republicans who fight above all for a balanced budget no longer wield the power they once had.
“I feel somewhat like a dinosaur,” deficit hawk Bob Corker admitted on Friday afternoon. Hours later, he was the only Republican to vote against the bill.
Fear also played a role. The risk of a backlash from wealthy donors and conservative supporters if the party failed to deliver on another campaign promise ahead of mid-term elections next year helped party leaders get the legislation approved in a 51-49 vote.
“I think after failing twice on healthcare, folks went back home and talked to the real people of America,“ said Kennedy. ”And they were told, ‘Look, we sent you up there to fix our problems. Fix them or we’ll find somebody who will.’”
McConnell needed 50 of the 52 Republicans in the Senate to back the tax bill, knowing Vice President Mike Pence was on hand to provide the tie-breaking vote if needed.
McConnell could only count on 43 votes on Wednesday night. Nine other Republican members were wobbly and he had no support from Senate Democrats.
McConnell and his allies went to work, offering a wide range  of late concessions to holdouts to get a political victory after months of frustration.
The bill still needs to be reconciled with a different version approved by the House of Representatives, but the Senate bill is expected to remain largely intact.
Led by Corker and Jeff Flake, a small group of fiscal conservatives were at first upset that the Senate bill was going to increase fiscal deficits and the national debt. Early efforts to get their support went slowly.
“It’s been pretty hard to make them happy so far. We’re going to keep working on it, as we always have, and we’ll get to the finish line,” Senator Orrin Hatch said on Thursday night.
Flake came around when he was able to win two concessions. First, he got a commitment from Senate leadership and the Trump administration to put a time limit on allowing companies to write off the full value of new capital investments.
Second, Pence assured Flake the administration would work with him on fair and permanent protections for illegal immigrants who came to the United States as children.
Two other fiscal conservatives, James Lankford and Jerry Moran, also came on board. Although Corker refused to yield, the others’ votes were enough to ensure victory.
Senator Ron Johnson demanded and won amendments to further ease the tax burden on “pass-through” businesses. “I was just kind of biding my time ... And then Senator Portman came over and said ‘What can we do’?”, Johnson said of a Thursday night vote.
Even moderate Senator Susan Collins, who helped scuttle Obamacare repeal efforts earlier this year, agreed to vote in favour of the tax bill.
Representing voters with a high state tax burden in Maine, Collins was against her party’s plan to end the deduction of state and local property taxes. Under an amendment she pushed, taxpayers would be allowed to deduct up to $10,000 a year.
Collins also said she was assured by Republican leaders that they would take steps soon to mitigate damage caused by the repeal of a fee linked to the Obamacare “individual mandate”, which requires some Americans to buy health insurance.
McConnell also got lucky in that Trump didn’t make his job any harder. Unlike his conduct in the Obamacare debate, Trump largely stayed on message, proclaiming the tax bill would help the middle class and businesses. Although incorrect, he also claimed it would be the biggest tax cut ever.
Trump met with Republican senators on Capitol Hill for lunch this week, a gathering described as thoughtful and positive.
“Nobody called anybody names or talked about anybody’s native American heritage, or anything,” said Kennedy, referring to Trump’s habit of picking fights with perceived enemies.
Democrats were furious, saying Republicans were throwing money at the rich and that the bill was handled too fast.
“If the economy grows or shrinks. If it creates jobs or loses them. Who knows? Certainly no one here. No one could know, because it hasn’t even been read, let alone thoughtfully considered,” said Senate Democratic leader Chuck Shumer.


DENPASAR, Indonesia (Reuters) - Airlines canceled more flights departing the Indonesian holiday island of Bali on Saturday, citing forecasts of deteriorating flying conditions due to a risk of volcanic ash from the erupting Mount Agung volcano.
A Bali airport spokesman said the airport was still operating normally, but airlines such as Jetstar and Virgin Australia had opted to cancel some flights
“Bali flying conditions expected to be clear throughout the day, but forecast for tonight has deteriorated so several flights have been canceled,” Australian budget airline Jetstar said on its Twitter account.
The erupting volcano had closed the airport for much of this week, stranding thousands of visitors from Australia, China and other countries, before the winds changed and flights resumed
Twenty flights were canceled on Friday evening due to concerns over ash. Some airlines including Malaysia’s AirAsia Bhd have said they would only operate out of Bali during the day, as the ash could impair visibility at night and wind conditions in the area were unpredictable.
Airlines avoid flying through volcanic ash as it can damage aircraft engines, clogging fuel and cooling systems, hampering pilot visibility and even causing engine failure.
There are also concerns over changing weather conditions with a tropical cyclone south of Java island impacting weather and wind in the area, including for Bali, the Indonesian Meteorological, Climatological and Geophysics agency said
With some airlines continuing to fly normally on Saturday, there was frustration among passengers.
Australian couple Justine and Greg Hill were on holiday with their two teenage children and had been due to fly out today but their flight later this evening was canceled. 
“It’s more an inconvenience than anything. Don’t understand why if other airlines are flying, some others aren‘t. Obviously there must be safety protocols but there’s no detailed explanation,” said Greg Hill, 46, who was waiting at the airport. 
Several foreign consulates have set up booths in the international departures area to assist stranded passengers.
Subrata Sarkar, India’s vice consul in Bali, told Reuters at the airport’s international departure area that they had helped around 500 passengers so far this week. 
”We have advised citizens the volcano may erupt. We never say ‘please don’t come’. But we have issued travel advisories. If it’s urgent business, then ok, but if it’s only tourism, then plans should be reconsidered,” said Sarkar.
For an interactive graphic on Mount Agung volcano, click - tmsnrt.rs/2hYdHiq
For a graphic on the Pacific "Ring of Fire," click - tmsnrt.rs/2BjtH6l


BEIRUT (Reuters) - Israeli missiles struck a military position near Damascus and Syria’s air defence system responded on Saturday, destroying two of them, Syrian state television said.
”The Israeli enemy launched...several surface-to-surface missiles towards a military position,“ it said, adding there had been ”material losses at the site.
An Israeli military spokeswoman had declined to comment on earlier reports of such an attack overnight.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said missiles, probably fired by the Israeli military, struck an arms depot of the Syrian army or its allied forces after midnight.
The Britain-based group, which monitors the war through a network of contacts in Syria, said the attack hit near al-Kiswa town south of the capital Damascus, causing loud explosions.
The Israeli air force has said it struck arms convoys of the Syrian military and Lebanon’s Hezbollah nearly 100 times during more than six years of the Syrian war.
Israel has grown deeply alarmed by Iran’s expanding clout during the conflict, and has warned it would act against any threat from its regional foe Tehran.
Iran has provided critical support to President Bashar al-Assad’s military in fighting Syrian rebels and Islamic State militants. Iran-backed Shi‘ite militias, including Hezbollah, have helped Damascus regain control of swathes of the country.
On a visit to Damascus in October, Iran’s military chief warned Israel against breaching Syrian airspace or territory.


ISTANBUL (Reuters) - A Turkish professor who has been on hunger strike since losing her job in a purge following last year’s failed coup was convicted on Friday of belonging to a banned far-left group but the court ordered her release pending an appeal.
Nuriye Gulmen, 35, was sentenced to six years and three months in jail for being a member of the militant leftist DHKP-C group, deemed a terrorist organisation by Turkey, defence lawyers told Reuters. She was found not guilty of lesser charges including organising illegal rallies.
The literature professor had been hospitalised before the trial began due to her worsening health after seven months of surviving on water, herbal tea and sugar and salt solutions.
Primary school teacher Semih Ozakca, 28, who has also been on hunger strike since losing his job in the crackdown, was acquitted on similar charges. The Ankara court had ordered his release on Oct. 21 for the remainder of the trial, on condition that he wear an ankle monitor.
Both deny any links to DHKP-C.
A third defendant, Acun Karadag, was acquitted on a lesser charge of participating in illegal rallies.
The teachers have said their hunger strike aimed to highlight the plight of some 150,000 state employees -- including academics, civil servants, judges and soldiers -- suspended or sacked since the abortive coup in July 2016.
The pair were detained in May and jailed pending the start of the trial in September. On Sept. 12, days before the teachers were due in court, Turkey issued detention warrants for the lawyers who were set to defend them.
Turkish authorities blame the coup attempt on U.S.-based Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen and his supporters. Gulen condemned the coup and denies involvement.
Human rights groups and the European Union have said President Tayyip Erdogan is using the crackdown to stifle dissent in Turkey, an assertion that he denies.


TORONTO (Reuters) - A Canadian judge on Friday suspended part of a Quebec law banning people from wearing full-face veils when giving or receiving public services, handing a provisional victory to civil liberties groups who argued that the law is unconstitutional and discriminates against Muslim women.
Judge Babak Barin suspended the portion of the act banning face coverings until the government enacts guidelines for how the law will be applied and how exemptions might be granted.     The government of the mainly French-speaking province of Quebec now has a chance to clarify in detail how the law would be put into practice.
The law, passed in October, affects everyone from teachers and students to hospital employees, police officers, bus drivers and transit users.
While the law does not single out any religion by name, debate has focused on the niqab, a full-face veil worn by a small minority of Muslim women.
The judge “recognised the immediate harm the law was causing to the people it affects outweighed any theoretical public purpose of the law,” lawyer Catherine McKenzie, who is representing the people challenging the law, told Reuters.
Quebec’s Liberal government is defending the law in court, saying it does not discriminate against Muslim women and is necessary for reasons of security, identification and communication. The act’s name refers to “religious neutrality” and “accommodations on religious grounds.”
“I‘m not unsatisfied with the judgement because there’s no mention that the law contravenes the charters (of rights),” Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard told reporters Friday, as quoted by the Canadian Broadcasting Corp.
The National Council for Canadian Muslims welcomed the ruling “as a successful first step,” its executive director Ihsaan Gardee said.
Opponents of the law say it targets a visible minority that has been subject to threats and violence. Quebec had about 243,000 Muslims as of 2011, according to Statistics Canada, out of a population of 8 million.
In January a gunman walked into a Quebec City mosque and shot six people to death. A French-Canadian university student has been charged as the sole suspect.
France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Bulgaria and the German state of Bavaria have imposed restrictions on the wearing of full-face veils in public places. Denmark plans to institute its own ban.


CARACAS (Reuters) - Venezuela has arrested Diego Salazar, a relative of former oil czar Rafael Ramirez, as part of an investigation into a money laundering scandal in Andorra, the South American country’s state prosecutor said on Friday night.
President Nicolas Maduro is overseeing what his administration calls a “crusade” against corruption in the member of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Some 65 oil executives have been detained in a deepening purge that could also see the leftist leader consolidate his grip over the energy sector and sideline rivals.
The Salazar case appears to relate to what the United States in 2015 said were some $2 billion in laundered funds from Venezuelan state oil company Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. [PDVSA.UL], known as PDVSA, at the private bank Banca Privada D‘Andorra (BPA).
Saab did not specify Salazar’s role or details on the money laundering, except that it involved around 1.35 billion euros in 2011 and 2012, but he said the case was bound to grow.
“I want to highlight that this citizen will likely not be the only one detained and the only one investigated,” Saab said in a phone call to state television announcing the arrest.
The arrest is bound to cast the spotlight on Ramirez, who was the powerful head of PDVSA and the oil ministry for a decade before Maduro demoted him as a envoy to the United Nations in 2014.
A protracted rivalry between Maduro and Ramirez has increased in the recent weeks, sources close to the situation said this week, especially after Ramirez wrote online opinion articles criticizing PDVSA’s production slump and the government’s handling of Venezuela’s crisis-hit economy.
Maduro sacked Ramirez, who was thought to have presidential ambitions, from his job this week and summoned him back to Caracas from New York, the people with knowledge of the situation said.
Ramirez and PDVSA did not respond to a request for comment on Friday. Salazar could not immediately be reached for comment.


ABOARD A U.S. MILITARY AIRCRAFT (Reuters) - U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said on Friday that as offensive operations against Islamic State in Syria entered their final stages, he expected the focus to move towards holding territory instead of arming Syrian Kurdish fighters.
Speaking with reporters on a military plane en route to Cairo, Mattis did not say if there had already been a halt to weapons transfers.
U.S. President Donald Trump informed Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan in a call last week that Washington was adjusting military support to partners on the ground in Syria.
The Syrian Kurdish YPG spearheads the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias fighting Islamic State with the help of a U.S.-led coalition.
Turkey’s presidency had previously reported that the United States would not supply weapons to Kurdish YPG fighters in Syria.
Until now, the Pentagon has only gone as far as saying it was reviewing “adjustments” in arms for the Syrian Kurdish forces, which Ankara views as a threat.
“The YPG is armed and as the coalition stops offensive (operations) then obviously you don’t need that, you need security, you need police forces, that is local forces, that is people who make certain that ISIS doesn’t come back,” Mattis said.
When asked if that would specifically mean the U.S. would stop arming the YPG, Mattis said: “Yeah, we are going to go exactly along the lines of what the President announced.”
Ankara has been infuriated by Washington’s support for the YPG militia, seen by Turkey as an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), which has fought a decades-long insurgency in Turkey and is designated a terrorist group by Ankara, the United States and European Union.
The United States expects to recover heavy weapons and larger vehicles from the YPG, but lighter weapons are unlikely to be completely recovered, U.S. officials have said.
Earlier this week, the U.S.-led coalition fighting Islamic State said more than 400 U.S. Marines and their artillery would be leaving Syria after helping to capture the city of Raqqa from Islamic State.
Mattis said that was part of the United States changing the composition of its forces to support diplomats to bring an end to the war.
“The troops are changing their stance...that includes with our allies who are now changing their stance as they come to the limits of where they are going,” Mattis said.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner and former adviser K.T. McFarland were the Trump transition officials who spoke to former U.S. national security adviser Michael Flynn about his contacts with Russian officials, CNN reported Friday.
McFarland went on to serve in the Trump White House and has been nominated to be the U.S. ambassador to Singapore. CNN also reported she met with investigators for special counsel Robert Mueller, who is looking at contacts between Russians and the Trump administration.


BERLIN (Reuters) - The leader of Germany’s Social Democrats (SPD) said on Friday he ruled out no option for forming a new government but stressed that a re-run of the outgoing “grand coalition” with Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives was not a done deal.
Germany, Europe’s political and economic powerhouse, has been struggling to build a new government since a Sept. 24 national election. Merkel’s conservative bloc and the SPD lost support in that vote, while an anti-immigrant party surged into parliament, seriously complicating the coalition arithmetic.
Merkel, her own political future on the line after 12 years at the helm, is making overtures to the centre-left SPD - her partner in government over the past four years - after her bid to form a three-way coalition with two smaller parties failed.
The SPD, which had wanted to go into opposition to rebuild after suffering its worst post-World War Two election result, fears its distinctive identity and policy ideas will again be smothered in any tie-up with Merkel’s bigger centre-right bloc.
“Regarding the formation of a new government, there was broad support for not ruling any option out,” SPD leader Martin Schulz said after party board discussions in Berlin.
Schulz, who held talks late on Thursday with President Frank-Walter Steinmeier, Merkel and her Bavarian ally Horst Seehofer, denied he had agreed to another grand coalition.
“I can clearly deny the media report about me having given the green light for grand coalition negotiations. This is simply wrong,” Schulz said, adding that the report appeared to be based on sources within Merkel’s conservative CDU/CSU bloc.
He said whoever circulated such reports was damaging trust.
Malu Dreyer, an SPD member and premier of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate, said she was sceptical the SPD could agree a “convincing, substantive proposal” with conservatives.
“The majority (of the SPD) is against a new grand coalition,” she told the General-Anzeiger and Rhein-Zeitung newspapers in an interview to be published Saturday.
Relations between the SPD and conservatives - who are still sharing power in a caretaker capacity - soured this week after a conservative minister backed continued use of a weedkiller at the European Union level against the SPD’s wishes.
“We have a lot of options for building a government. We should talk about each of these options. That’s exactly what I will propose to the party leadership on Monday,” Schulz said.
The SPD will hold a party congress in Berlin on Dec. 7-9, where it is expected to debate its options.
Other options apart from a grand coalition include a minority conservative government - which the SPD could support on a case-by-case basis, or fresh elections. Merkel has said in the past she does not want to lead a minority government.
Merkel’s camp said the ball was in the SPD’s court.
“It’s now up to the SPD to provide clarity,” said CDU manager Klaus Schueler. “The fact we underlined today that we are prepared to enter such talks with the SPD shows that we’re aiming to bring these talks to a successful conclusion.”
Another senior member of Merkel’s Christian Democrat Union (CDU), Mike Mohring, said he was hopeful for an eventual grand coalition and expected a new government to be formed by March.
“The way for a grand coalition has been paved,” Mohring told Reuters after taking part in a teleconference where Merkel had briefed the CDU federal board on Thursday night’s talks with Schulz and the president.
Schulz, a former president of the European Parliament, is pushing for changes in Germany’s approach to the European Union and in economic and social policy.
In an interview with Der Spiegel magazine, Schulz said the SPD backed French President Emmanuel Macron’s call for closer eurozone integration, including a new finance minister for the currency bloc - ideas that face resistance from conservatives.
“Giving Emmanuel Macron a positive answer will be a key element in every negotiation with the SPD,” Schulz was quoted as saying in the interview made available on Friday, adding that he also backed a joint EU tax policy.


PRISTINA (Reuters) - Kosovo’s Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj was removed from an international arrest warrant issued by Serbia, lifting an obstacle to him travelling outside the country, the justice minister said on Friday.
Early this year Ramush Haradinaj, a former Kosovar guerrilla leader who in September took over as prime minister, was arrested in France on an arrest warrant issued by Serbia. He was released after a French court rejected Belgrade’s extradition request.
Despite many attempts by Pristina, Belgrade refused to remove his name from the Interpol red notice.
“Today I was informed that Interpol has removed 18 people from Kosovo that are wanted by Serbia and this list includes also the prime minister,” Abelard Tahiri, Kosovo’s Justice Minister told Reuters.
“After today’s decision all these individuals are free to travel outside the country without any problem.”
Haradinaj and others are wanted by Serbia for allegedly committing war crimes.
Serbia has charged Haradinaj with murdering Serbs in the late 1990s war. The 1998-99 conflict ended after NATO bombed the now-defunct Yugoslavia, then comprising Serbia and Montenegro, for 78 days to force a withdrawal of its troops from Kosovo and end a counter-insurgency campaign against ethnic Albanians.
Haradinaj, who has twice been tried and acquitted by the United Nations war crimes tribunal in the Hague, denies any wrongdoing.
Kosovo declared independence in 2008 but Serbia refused to recognise its former breakaway province.


LONDON (Reuters) - Ireland wants re-assurance from Britain there will be no regulatory divergence between it and Northern Ireland after Brexit, Foreign Minister Simon Coveney told BBC radio on Friday.
He said Ireland wanted to achieve before a Dec. 14 EU summit “an agreed wording whereby we can agree the parameters within which we can find a solution that prevents the re-emergence of a border on the island of Ireland”.
Avoiding a so-called “hard border” on the island of Ireland is the last major hurdle before Brexit talks can move to negotiations on Britain’s future trade relationship with the EU and a possible two-year Brexit transition deal.
Coveney said Ireland cannot be asked “to leap into the dark” by the UK.


DUBLIN (Reuters) - A breakthrough on the future of the Irish border once Britain leaves the European Union is “doable” before a key EU summit in two weeks time but the negotiating teams are “not there yet”, Ireland’s foreign minister said on Friday.
Avoiding a so-called “hard border” on the island of Ireland is the last major hurdle before Brexit talks can move to negotiations on Britain’s future trade relationship with the EU and a possible two-year Brexit transition deal.
European Council President Donald Tusk last week set an “absolute deadline” of Monday - when British Prime Minister Theresa May meets EU chief executive Jean-Claude Juncker and his chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier - for London to deliver “sufficient progress” in its divorce offer.
“Let’s hope we can make more progress in the next few days. I don’t think everything needs to be done by next Monday but certainly we need to be in a position by the time EU leaders meet (on Dec. 14), I hope, to have wording that everybody can live with,” Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney told reporters.
“I think it’s doable but I think there’s a need for some movement and more flexibility than we’ve seen to date. We’re not where we need to be today but I do think it is possible to get to where we need to be over the next few days,” he said.
If London meets the three key EU conditions on its financial settlement for leaving, the rights of expatriate citizens and the border, then leaders could give a green light to trade talks at the summit on Dec. 14-15.
Before it can sign off on the first phase, Dublin wants May to spell out in writing how she intends to make good on a commitment to avoid a hard border and says the best way to do so is to keep regulations the same on both sides of a border that will be the UK’s only land frontier with the bloc after Brexit.
Coveney said negotiators were working to find “sensible wording”, drafts of which were being exchanged. Dublin, he said, will insist “there will be no fudge”.
He said his government and the pro-Brexit Northern Ireland party propping up May’s government agreed on far more than it disagreed on after the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) hinted it might withdraw its support for May if she gives too much away.
However he warned the DUP that one party does not have a monopoly on the region whose voters sought to stay in the EU and that there were broad and different views among the British province’s unionists and Irish nationalist communities.
“We can’t allow one party to dictate what’s acceptable and what’s not,” he said.


SANTO DOMINGO/CARACAS (Reuters) - Members of Venezuela’s leftist government and opposition coalition began a new round of talks in the Dominican Republic on Friday aimed at resolving the OPEC nation’s long-running and often bloody political standoff.
Various mediation efforts have failed in recent years: foes accuse President Nicolas Maduro of exploiting dialogue to buy time, while he says the opposition prefers violence.
Few Venezuelans expect a breakthrough this time, with opponents demoralized at seeing Maduro consolidate power and position himself for possible re-election in 2018.
The Democratic Unity coalition - which failed to dislodge Maduro in months of street protests this year that led to about 125 deaths - is pressing primarily for a guarantee of free and fair voting next year.
It also wants a foreign humanitarian aid corridor to alleviate one of the worst economic crises in modern history, as well as freedom for several hundred jailed activists, and respect for the opposition-led congress.
“We’ve come to seek solutions to Venezuela’s problems: food, medicines, free elections, and the need to restore democracy,” lead opposition negotiator Julio Borges said.
“It’s a difficult path.”
The opposition’s bargaining power has been weakened by a surprising defeat in October gubernatorial elections. Furthermore, the multi-party group is divided, with more militant sectors opposing the talks.
“The dialogue they are planning to start is a parody ... an instrument for the regime to gain time and keep itself in power,” said Antonio Ledezma, an opposition leader who escaped house arrest this month to seek asylum abroad.
Maduro has instructed negotiators to focus on opposition to U.S. sanctions against his government. He was strengthened by the October vote and anticipates another win in mayoral elections set for December, which the opposition is mainly boycotting.
President Donald Trump has slapped individual sanctions on a raft of officials for alleged rights abuses, corruption and drugs crimes, as well as economic measures intended to stop the Venezuelan government issuing new debt.
Maduro wants any potential deal with the opposition to include joint pressure on Washington to back off.
He has blamed the U.S. measures for Venezuela’s economic problems, which in fact began several years ago amid failed statist policies and a plunge in global oil prices.
“We came to demand the immediate end of the economic aggressions against Venezuela,” said chief government negotiator and Information Minister Jorge Rodriguez.
There is no indication, however, that Trump would be prepared to ease pressure on Maduro, whom he has called “a bad leader who dreams of becoming a dictator.”
On the contrary, U.S. officials say Washington could strengthen sanctions unless Maduro enacts democratic changes.
The government also wants recognition for Venezuela’s Constituent Assembly, an entirely pro-Maduro superbody elected in July despite an opposition boycott and widespread international condemnation.
With an eye to its push to refinance more than $120 billion in foreign debt, Maduro would like the opposition-led congress to agree to approve any negotiations with bondholders, a potential loophole to get round the U.S. sanctions.
Foreign ministers from Chile, Mexico, Bolivia, Nicaragua and host Dominican Republic were acting as guarantors at the talks over two days at the Foreign Ministry building in Santo Domingo.
“Major near-term breakthroughs remain unlikely given the complexity of issues on the table and the distance between each side’s preferences,” said Eurasia group consultancy.


NEW YORK (Reuters) - A Turkish-Iranian gold trader testifying for U.S. prosecutors in a New York court on Friday gave his most detailed account yet of how he claims an executive of Turkey’s state-owned Halkbank devised key parts of a plan to launder money for Iran through fake food sales.
The executive, Mehmet Hakan Atilla, is on trial on charges that he took part in a scheme to violate U.S sanctions against Iran. The gold trader, Reza Zarrab, pleaded guilty in the case and agreed to cooperate with the prosecutors.
U.S. prosecutors have charged nine people, although only Zarrab, 34, and Atilla, 47, have been arrested by U.S. authorities. Victor Rocco, a lawyer for Atilla, told jurors in his opening statement on Tuesday that Atilla was innocent.
On Friday, Zarrab testified that Atilla played an important role in a scheme to let Iran spend its oil and gas revenue abroad through gold trades and sham food sales.
Zarrab said the scheme shifted from gold trades to purported food sales, in which no food was sent to Iran, after U.S. sanctions changed in 2013.
Zarrab testified on Thursday that Atilla was initially not receptive to the food scheme, and did not understand that the food sales were fake.
However, Zarrab said on Friday that Atilla eventually came up with some features of the food transactions himself, such as moving money from one of Zarrab’s companies to another to conceal the link to Iran.
Zarrab said Atilla later identified a “loophole” that allowed Iran to use gas revenue, but not oil revenue, to buy gold.
Halkbank has said all of its transactions complied with national and international regulations.
Over three days of testimony, Zarrab has implicated top Turkish politicians, including President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Zarrab said on Thursday that Erdogan personally authorized two Turkish banks to join the scheme when he was prime minister.
A spokesman for Erdogan could not immediately be reached. Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Friday that the U.S. case was an attempt to undermine Turkey’s economy.
After the jurors left on Friday, U.S. District Judge Richard Berman said he intended to dismiss one of the jurors who appeared to be “really sound asleep” through much of the testimony.


AMSTERDAM (Reuters) - A preliminary autopsy indicates that Bosnian Croat war crimes convict Slobodan Praljak died of cyanide poisoning, Dutch prosecutors said on Friday.
Praljak said he had taken poison in the courtroom immediately after his conviction and 20-year sentence were upheld on Wednesday, and died shortly afterward.
In a statement, prosecutors said a toxicological test found “Praljak had a concentration of potassium cyanide in his blood. This has resulted in a failure of the heart, which is indicated as the suspected cause of death”.


ROME (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia’s foreign minister said on Friday that Lebanon had been “hijacked” by Hezbollah and could only flourish if the Iranian-backed group disarmed.
The Shi‘ite Muslim militia was set up by the powerful Iranian Revolutionary Guards (IRGC) in the 1980s and has grown steadily in influence, sharing power in the Beirut government and giving crucial support to President Bashar al-Assad in Syria’s civil war.
Its growing strength has alarmed Saudi Arabia, a Sunni Muslim monarchy that is Shi‘ite Iran’s arch-rival for regional influence.
“Lebanon will only survive or prosper if you disarm Hezbollah,” Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir told a conference in Italy. “As long as you have an armed militia, you will not have peace in Lebanon.”
Jubeir said the situation in Lebanon was “tragic” and accused Iran of fomenting unrest across the Middle East.
“Since 1979, the Iranians have literally got away with murder in our region, and this has to stop,” he said.
A month ago, Saad al-Hariri resigned as Lebanese prime minister while he was in Saudi Arabia, triggering a political crisis in Beirut and thrusting Lebanon onto the front line of the regional rivalry.
Saudi Arabia denied coercing its long-time ally to quit, and Hariri has now returned to Beirut and indicated that he might withdraw his resignation.
Elsewhere in the region, Saudi Arabia fears that Hezbollah and Iran are trying to take control of its neighbour Yemen, by supporting Houthi forces against a Riyadh-led military coalition.
Hezbollah denies fighting in Yemen, sending weapons to the Houthis, or firing rockets at Saudi Arabia from Yemeni territory. Jubeir rejected this and said his country would not back down in the conflict.
“The Houthis cannot be allowed to take over a country,” he said.
Jubeir said his country only had bad relations with two nations -- Iran and North Korea. He said Riyadh did not have relations with Israel, which shares Saudi worries over Iran, because it was waiting for a Palestinian peace deal.
He said everyone knew what a solution would look like to the decades-old conflict. “It is not rocket science,” he said, adding that he was waiting for the United States to put forward a new proposal.
One of the most intractable problems facing negotiators is the spread of Jewish settlements across occupied territory that the Palestinians want for a future state.
Jubeir said he expected an eventual deal would set the borders of a Palestinian state on the lines prevailing before the 1967 war, when Israel captured the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
However, he said adjustments could be made for settlers: “Seventy percent of the settlers who are on the (1967) Green Line remain in Israel, and the other 30 percent - you offer them compensation and work out housing, and they can move to Israel.”


BERLIN (Reuters) - The German government is considering legal changes that would oblige operators of car and house alarm systems to help law enforcement in their efforts to spy on potential terrorists or criminals, a spokesman for the interior ministry said on Friday.
Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere, a conservative, plans to discuss the issue with security officials across the country next week in a bid to remove what he sees as hurdles to better surveillance, the spokesman said.
But those plans have already sparked criticism from Social Democrats (SPD), who are partners in the current German caretaker government and are under pressure to renew the “grand coalition” that ruled Germany for the past four years.
Surveillance is a sensitive issue in Germany given its legacy of spying by East Germany’s Stasi secret police and the Nazi era Gestapo.
Boris Pistorius, an SPD member and interior minister of the state of Lower Saxony, said de Maiziere’s plans were premature and “panicked”, and called for a more measured approach.
“2017 is not Orwell’s 1984,” he told the Neue Osnabruecker Zeitung in an interview to be published on Saturday. “We need sound judgement and not exaggeration.”
In the past, law enforcement officials have run into difficulty installing secret listening devices in cars and apartments because individuals were tipped off by security systems in electronic gadgets connected to the internet, or received text messages when their cars were opened.
Officials were now exploring legal changes that would require alarm system operators to provide law enforcement with specific tools that would enable them to secretly open and circumvent alarm systems in cases involving suspected terrorist activity or organised crime, the spokesman said.
He said authorities were not seeking access to suspects’ computers, smart phones or other electronic devices.


AL RAWDAH, Egypt (Reuters) - People wounded in an attack on a mosque in Egypt’s North Sinai region that killed more than 230 returned to the site to pray on Friday and a top Muslim leader urged the army to destroy the “cancer” of insurgency.
One worshipper said a whole village had been ‘exterminated’ in last Friday’s attack on the Al Rawdah mosque, near the town of Bir al-Abed - the deadliest such incident in Egypt’s modern history.
Some of the more than 100 wounded made their way past tight security to the mosque. They prayed and recounted their ordeal at the hands of suspected Islamist militants when a bomb exploded and dozens of gunmen opened fire.
The attack targeted worshippers indiscriminately, said wounded school teacher Magdy Rezk.
“It included everyone inside, those outside and those coming in from the street. Even those trying to escape from the mosque were not spared,” he said.
Another man who gave only his first name, Ismail, said he lost his father, brother and several uncles and cousins.
“I was sitting outside the mosque and just started running,” he said. “They (militants) were approaching from all sides ... it was unbelievable.”
“A whole village was exterminated,” said another villager.
The army had beefed up security and set up checkpoints leading to the village and the mosque on Friday. At Al Rawdah, a soldier stood inside its minaret keeping watch.
No group has claimed the attack, but the Islamic State’s Sinai branch, which has for years battled Egyptian security forces and more recently attacked churches, is a prime suspect.
Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi has vowed to step up efforts against Islamist insurgents in Sinai and ordered his military chief to use all force necessary to secure North Sinai in the next three months.
The Grand Imam of Cairo’s Al-Azhar mosque, Sheikh Ahmed al-Tayeb, urged the armed forces to fight and destroy the Islamist insurgency in a televised speech delivered at the mosque.
“The judgment of God (has) to be implemented upon them by fighting them,” he said, describing the militants as “cancerous”.
“Egypt, with its security (forces)... is capable of getting through this difficult stage and destroying this terrorism that is foreign to our land,” he said.
Egypt’s deadliest militant attack comes just months before a presidential election in which Sisi is expected to seek reelection. Sisi’s support base see him as a vote for stability following prolonged, violent upheaval in the years after the 2011 Egyptian revolt against Hosni Mubarak.
In addition to trying to fight the Islamist insurgency in North Sinai, his government has also enacted painful austerity reforms over the last year that critics say have dented his popularity.


NEW YORK (Reuters) - Argentina will not increase defence spending, despite the loss of a submarine with 44 crew aboard that has sparked criticism of the state of its armed forces, a close ally of President Mauricio Macri said on Friday.
Argentina has given up hope of rescuing the crew of the ARA San Juan, which disappeared over two weeks ago in the South Atlantic. The tragedy underscored what some critics have described as the parlous state of the country’s military, which has faced dwindling resources for years.
There were no plans to provide extra funding for the armed forces, said Esteban Bullrich, a former education minister under Macri who is now a senator representing Argentina’s powerful Buenos Aires province.
“We have to work within the constraints of our (budget) policy in general, we’re not going to go out of our plan because of this incident,” Bullrich told Reuters in an interview in New York.
There will be no change in Argentina’s 2018 budget allocation for defence, he said.
Defence spending in the budget is lower than in the previous year in real terms. It is the lowest in the region compared to gross domestic product, and the government has limited room for manoeuvre.
Since Macri took power in 2015, the country has returned to international debt markets but investment has been slower than the government had hoped.
Bullrich was in New York to attend a United Nations event and meet with investors, as part of the government’s charm offensive to convince them that Argentina is open for business after over a decade of protectionist rule.
October’s congressional elections - which saw sweeping victories for Macri allies like Bullrich - were a sign to investors that Argentines want change, he said. The vote was widely seen as a referendum on Macri’s government.
His market-oriented changes have not all been popular. But government supporters say they are starting to benefit Latin America’s third largest economy.
Although Macri’s coalition does not have a congressional majority, Bullrich said he believed that opposition politicians were ready to work with the government.
“We can pass (reforms) even with a minority, because senators realise this, we had huge support from Argentinians in general,” he said.
Bullrich expressed confidence that key Macri legislation on pensions, tax, and capital markets - as well as the 2018 budget - could be voted on before the end of 2017.
“Yes it is (tight). But the thing is a lot of these reforms have been discussed in advance, and we’re very open to changes,” he said.


ROME (Reuters) - Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Friday that a U.S. threat to destroy North Korea in the event of a war was “a bloodthirsty tirade” and military action against Pyongyang would be a big mistake.
Speaking on a visit to Italy, Lavrov strongly condemned comments made by U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley, who earlier this week warned North Korea’s leadership it would be “utterly destroyed” if war were to break out after Pyongyang test fired its most advanced missile.
“If someone really wants to use force to, as the U.S. representative to the United Nations put it, destroy North Korea ...then I think that is playing with fire and a big mistake,” Lavrov told reporters.
He called Haley’s speech on North Korea, which she made at an emergency U.N. Security Council meeting, “a really bloodthirsty tirade”.
“We will do everything to ensure that (the use of force) doesn’t happen so that the problem is decided only using peaceful and political-diplomatic means,” said Lavrov.
Later, addressing a Rome conference, Lavrov said Russia and the United States both wanted North Korea to disarm, but said Washington would send a bad message if it walked away from a 2015 nuclear deal with Iran.
U.S. President Donald Trump said in October he would not certify that Tehran was complying with the 2015 deal and warned he might ultimately terminate it, accusing Iran of “not living up to the spirit” of the accord.
“If the United States drops out of this deal, it won’t be very credible in the eyes of those who are now requested to drop their (own) nuclear programme like North Korea,” Lavrov said.
He added that most “serious analysts ... and many officials” in Washington understood this.


DUBLIN (Reuters) - The key to British hopes of moving on to talks on trade ties with the European Union after it quits the bloc lies in Dublin, the European Council president said on Friday as Ireland called for “credible” solutions from London for the Irish border.
Avoiding a return to a “hard border” on the island of Ireland is the last major hurdle before Brexit talks can advance to trade ties and a possible two-year Brexit transition deal.
But European Council President Donald Tusk that while the EU negotiating team represents the interests of the 27 other members, Ireland will have the final say on the border issue.
“Let me say very clearly: if the UK offer is unacceptable for Ireland, it will also be unacceptable for the EU,” Tusk said in Dublin at a joint press conference with Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar.
“The key to the UK’s future lies - in some ways - in Dublin, at least as long as Brexit negotiations continue.”
Tusk confirmed he had given British Prime Minister Theresa May a deadline of Monday to make a final offer on Irish border conditions before EU heads of government decide whether there is “sufficient progress” on a UK-EU divorce settlement to merit opening talks on the future relationship.
If London meets the three key EU conditions on its financial bill for leaving, the rights of expatriate citizens and the border, then leaders could give a green light to trade talks at the summit on Dec. 14-15.
With significant headway on the financial settlement and citizen rights now apparently in the bag, a deal on the Irish border appears to be the final hurdle.
The political and economic stakes are high.
The economy of Ireland, north and south, has become deeply integrated since the EU single market’s creation in 1993, and only road signs now mark the frontier. Free-flowing commerce, together with the 1998 peace deal between Northern Ireland’s Protestants and Catholics, has transformed previously neglected areas on both sides of the boundary.
Varadkar said that while progress on the border issue had been made, the next few days would be crucial and that Ireland would not be afraid to use its veto if necessary.
“The UK must offer credible, concrete and workable solutions that guarantee that there will be no hard border...whatever the future relationship between the EU and the UK is,” he said.
“I‘m an optimist by nature...However I‘m also prepared to stand firm with our partners if need be...if the UK offer falls short.”
Before it can sign off on the first phase, Dublin wants May to spell out in writing how she intends to make good on a commitment to avoid turning the clock back to a border of customs and security checks. It says the best way to do so is to keep regulations the same on both sides of a border that will be the UK’s only land boundary with the EU after Brexit.
May’s government has said Britain will leave the EU’s single market and customs union but wants the Irish border to remain open, a stance that EU officials say is contradictory.
Earlier on Friday Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney said a deal on the border was ”doable“ but that the sides were ”not there yet. Coveney said negotiators were working to find “sensible wording”, drafts of which were being exchanged. Dublin, he said, will insist “there will be no fudge”.
May’s room to offer additional concessions to Dublin appeared extremely limited when the pro-Brexit Northern Ireland party propping up her government on Thursday hinted it might withdraw its support if she gives up too much.
But Coveney said the Irish government and the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) agreed on far more than it disagreed on.
May is also under pressure from British business leaders who want confirmation of a transition deal so they have time to adapt to the new relationship.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States remains committed to the Libyan Political Agreement, the State Department said in a statement following U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson’s meeting with Libyan Prime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj on Friday.
“Attempts to bypass the UN-facilitated political process or impose a military solution to the conflict would only destabilize Libya and create opportunities for ISIS (Islamic State) and other terrorist groups to threaten the United States and our allies,” State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said.


GENEVA/BEIRUT (Reuters) - Syria’s government delegation quit U.N.-led peace talks in Geneva on Friday and said it would not return next week unless the opposition withdrew a statement demanding President Bashar al-Assad play no role in any interim post-war government.
“For us (this) round is over, as a government delegation. He as mediator can announce his own opinion,” government chief negotiator Bashar al-Ja‘afari said after a morning of talks, referring to U.N. mediator Staffan de Mistura.
“As long as the other side sticks to the language of Riyadh 2 ... there will be no progress,” Ja‘afari said.
He was referring to a position adopted by Syrian opposition delegates at a meeting in Riyadh last week, in which they stuck to their demand that Assad be excluded from any transitional government.
Ja‘afari went further in a televised interview with al-Mayadeen TV: “We cannot engage in serious discussion in Geneva while the Riyadh statement is not withdrawn.”
De Mistura put a brave face on the impasse, saying in a statement that he had asked the delegations to engage in “talks next week” and give their reactions to 12 political principles.
Previously there had been some speculation the opposition could soften its stance ahead of this week’s Geneva negotiations, in response to government advances on the battlefield.
The Syrian civil war, now in its seventh year, has killed hundreds of thousands of people and driven 11 million from their homes. So far all previous rounds of peace talks have failed to make progress, faltering over the opposition’s demand Assad leave power and his refusal to go.
Pressed whether the government delegation would return to Geneva next week, Ja‘afari replied: “Damascus will decide.”
Ja‘afari said the statement insisting Assad leave power that was adopted by the opposition in Riyadh ahead of this week’s peace talks was a “mine” on the road to Geneva, and the opposition had purposefully undermined the negotiations.
“The language with which the statement was drafted was seen by us, the Syrian government, as well as by too many capitals, as a step back rather than progress forward, because it imposed a kind of precondition,” he said.
“The language is provocative, irresponsible,” he said.
The opposition, which held brief talks later with U.N. officials, rejected the charge that it was seeking to undermine the talks, and said it sought a “political solution”.
“We have come to this round with no preconditions,” opposition spokesman Yahya al-Aridi told reporters.
“Now, not coming back is a precondition in itself. It’s an expression or a reflection of a responsibility towards people who have been suffering for seven years now,” Aridi said.
Nasr Hariri, the opposition delegation chief, said earlier on Friday that his side had come to Geneva for serious, direct negotiations with Assad’s government. So far, government and opposition delegations have not negotiated face-to-face in any Syrian peace talks but have been kept in separate rooms.
“We call on the international community to put pressure on the regime to engage with this process,” Hariri said in a statement.
De Mistura said on Thursday the talks would run until Dec. 15, but the government delegation might return to Damascus to “refresh and consult” before a resumption probably on Tuesday.


(Reuters) - Michael Flynn’s plea of guilty on Friday to lying to the Federal Bureau of Investigation made him the fourth person known to be charged in a U.S. Justice Department investigation of ties between President Donald Trump’s 2016 election campaign and Russia.
The other three known to be charged by Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s probe are:
**	Former Trump Campaign Manager Paul Manafort and Robert Gates. A grand jury in October indicted Manafort, a longtime Republican political consultant, and Gates, a business associate.
The two men pleaded not guilty on Oct. 30 to the 12-count indictment, whose charges include conspiracy to launder money, conspiracy against the United States and failing to register as foreign agents of Ukraine’s former pro-Russian government.
Manafort has agreed to an $11.65 million bail deal that would result in his release from house arrest and electronic monitoring.
**	Former Trump campaign adviser George Papadopoulos. Papadopoulos, a Chicago-based international energy lawyer, pleaded guilty on Oct. 30 to lying to FBI agents about contacts with people who claimed to have ties to top Russian officials. It was the first criminal charge alleging links between the Trump campaign and Russia. White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders played down Papadopoulos’ campaign role, saying it was “extremely limited” and “any actions that he took would have been on his own.”


ISTANBUL/ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey cast the testimony of a wealthy gold trader in a U.S. court as an attempt to undermine Ankara and its economy on Friday, highlighting how President Tayyip Erdogan may use the politically charged case to rally nationalist support.
The trader, Reza Zarrab, told a New York court on Wednesday that Erdogan had authorised a transaction in a scheme to help Iran evade U.S. sanctions. A dual national of Iran and Turkey, Zarrab is cooperating with U.S. prosecutors in the trial of a Turkish bank executive accused of helping Iran launder money. The executive has pleaded not guilty.
“This court case has stopped being judicial and become completely political, with the sole aim to corner Turkey and its economy,” Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said.
The case has aggravated tension between Ankara and Washington, NATO allies already at odds over Syria policy and the United States’ failure to extradite the Muslim cleric Turkey accuses of engineering a failed military coup last year.
Although the economic fall-out from the case could be substantial - especially if U.S. authorities fine Turkish banks - analysts said that Erdogan is unlikely to be damaged politically at home and could potentially emerge stronger by attracting more nationalist support.
“This will bolster his claim that he is fighting an independence battle against foreign enemies,” said Halil Karaveli, editor of the Turkey Analyst, a policy journal.
“If there is going to be any political impact, I suspect it will actually help in the electoral sense.”
Media coverage of the case has been limited in Turkey and one pro-government outlet branded the trial as a conspiracy by “enemies” of the country.
Erdogan, who has governed Turkey for almost 15 years, has not yet responded to the courtroom claims; but had already dismissed the case as a politically inspired attempt to bring down the Turkish government.
His government says the network of U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, blamed by Ankara for the failed military coup, was also behind the court case.
“Zarrab’s deposition before the U.S. court will not impact the outlook of the AK Party constituency. In return, mitigating the possible economic impact will be more of a challenge especially if Turkish banks are eventually fined,” said Sinan Ulgen, an analyst and former Turkish diplomat.
International investors have grown nervous about Turkey as ties with the United States have worsened - helping drive the  lira currency down some 10 percent against the dollar in the past three months, to a series of record lows.
But the U.S. legal action over the alleged Iran sanctions busting, and the risk that some of the country’s banks might be sucked into the case, lies at the heart of the latest investor concerns.
U.S. prosecutors charge that the executive of Turkey’s state-owned Halkbank, Mehmet Hakan Atilla, helped Iran launder the money. Halkbank, like Atilla, has said it is not guilty of the charges. In his testimony, Zarrab also said that Turkish officials had authorised two Turkish banks, Ziraat Bank and VakifBank, to move funds for Iran.
Both Ziraat and VakifBank have denied taking part in any such scheme.
Nonetheless, investors are worried about the possibility that Turkish banks could be fined.
“If there is a fine that’s outsize and the Turkish government doesn’t want to pay or allow the bank to pay, it will turn into a political standoff which is not great for banks or sovereign spreads,” said Greg Saichin, head of emerging debt at Allianz Global Investors in London.
“This whole issue is weighing heavily on Turkey as a country to allocate (capital) to.”


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Former U.S. national security adviser Michael Flynn on Friday pleaded guilty to lying to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, prosecutors said, adding that he had spoken with a top member of Trump’s transition team regarding his communications with Russia’s ambassador to the United States.
Federal prosecutors also said Flynn had been directed by “a very senior member” of Trump’s transition team regarding a December 2016 United Nations vote.
Flynn also filed materially false statements and omissions in his March 7, 2017, foreign agent filing over his company’s work with the Turkish government, according to prosecutors.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The guilty plea entered by former U.S. national security adviser Michael Flynn to a charge of lying to the FBI implicates Flynn alone, the White House said in a statement on Friday.
“Nothing about the guilty plea or the charge implicates anyone other than Mr. Flynn,” said Ty Cobb, a White House attorney.
“The false statements involved mirror the false statements to White House officials which resulted in his resignation in February of this year,” Cobb said, adding that the plea “clears the way for a prompt and reasonable conclusion” of the Office of the Special Counsel’s probe into Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election and potential collusion by Trump’s campaign.


BEIRUT (Reuters) - The Syrian government cannot engage in serious talks in Geneva until the opposition withdraws a statement that demands President Bashar al-Assad play no role in an interim government, the Syrian envoy to the talks said on Friday.
“We cannot engage in serious discussion in Geneva while the Riyadh statement is not withdrawn,” Bashar al-Ja‘afari said in a televised interview with al-Mayadeen TV.
The government delegation earlier quit the talks, blaming the Riyadh statement, which rejected any role for Assad in any interim government.


BEIRUT (Reuters) - The Syrian government envoy to U.N.-backed peace talks in Geneva said on Friday that Saudi Arabia had “mined the way” to the meeting and did not want a political solution to the conflict.
The Syrian government delegation earlier quit the talks in Geneva, blaming the opposition’s rejection of any role for President Bashar al-Assad in any interim government.
“Saudi policy is the foundation that got this matter to where it is. They do not want any success for the political, peaceful solution,” Bashar al-Ja‘afari, who also serves as Syria’s U.N. envoy, said in an interview with al-Mayadeen television.


(Reuters) - Former U.S. national security adviser Michael Flynn said in a statement on Friday that his decision to plead guilty to lying to the FBI and to cooperate with an investigation into possible ties between Russia and President Donald Trump’s administration was “made in the best interests of my family and of our country”.
In the statement, which was issued by the law firm representing him, Flynn also said it was “painful to endure” the “false accusations of ‘treason’ and other outrageous acts” over the past several months but that he recognised “that the actions I acknowledged in court today were wrong.”


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Charles “Chuck” Johnson is not the kind of foot soldier in the army of lobbyists that House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan warned would descend on Washington to fight the biggest overhaul of the tax code since the 1980s.
Johnson, 53, with a degree in social work and another from a  theological seminary, heads the National Council for Adoption, a small organisation in Alexandria, Virginia that represents adoption agencies and adoption lawyers. Despite a relative lack of clout, parents of adopted children and adoption advocates beat back a minor change in the tax code that would have removed a tax credit to help cover the costs of adoption.
Politics in Washington favours the moneyed and the connected, especially Big Business and special interest groups rich enough to employ legions of lobbyists to advocate on their behalf.
But many of the taxpayers affected by President Donald Trump’s tax overhaul have little or no influence on Congress, where Republicans are looking to end a host of tax credits and deductions for medical expenses, moving expenses and alimony in order to pay for their big tax cuts. The bill will cut corporate tax, provide a tax holiday for corporations’ overseas profits and cut the tax rate for the wealthy.
“Everyone in corporate America had an army ready and in place to push for simplifying the tax code,” said Michaela Sims Stewart, president of the lobbying firm Sims Strategies.
In contrast, parents of adopted children “naturally came together” to form a “small but mighty group,” said Stewart.
Stewart also happens to be a spokeswoman for Adoption Tax Credit Working Group, which brought together a host of organizations, some with strong Republican and conservative ties, to pressure the House leadership to drop the change.
Part of the tax code since 1998, the adoption tax credit was used by nearly 74,000 people in 2014, according to the Internal Revenue Service.
The adoption advocates started a social media campaign on Facebook and Twitter to alert parents of the change. ”We expected adoptive families to rally in support, but when groups like Focus on the Family, National Right to Life, U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, prominent clergy such as Russell Moore, and even the LGBT community joined, the media took an interest,” said Johnson, of the National Council for Adoption.
With the publicity, pro-family Republican politicians were suddenly in the position of having to explain the elimination of what the coalition had successfully cast as a pro-child policy.
The House proposal was dropped Nov. 2 and the Senate didn’t even bother to make it part of its version of the tax bill.
While adoptive parents were ultimately successful in their fight, others have struggled to be heard.
Graduate students staged walkouts on dozens of campuses this week to protest one Republican proposal that would increase their tax burden. It would require graduate students to pay taxes on tuition payments that are waived by their university as if it were income. In other words, the students would be required to pay taxes on money they never had to begin with.
Few of the Republican proposals to end deductions or tax credits will yield a lot of money for a government that spends $4 trillion a year. Ending alimony deductions, a benefit in the tax code since 1954, might raise $8.3 billion over 10 years, according to an analysis by Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation.
No longer letting teachers write off $250 of what they shell out of their own pocket for classroom supplies might yield $2.1 billion over the same period, the committee says. The change affecting adoption might bring in less than $50 million over the next decade. The committee did not break out what ending medical deductions would yield.
Even though the stakes are high for them, advocates for people with disabilities and chronic diseases say they lagged in fighting cuts in medical expense deductibility, as well as removing a tax break to companies that make handicap-accessible structural changes, and a tax credit for businesses that hire people with disabilities. The tax breaks were not explicitly for people with disabilities, and the advocates had not expected they would be in Congress’s crosshairs.
These less-than-powerful voices may yet be heard as the Senate prepares to vote on its bill this week. They may get another chance when the House and Senate compromise on a single piece of legislation to vote on and pass to Trump.


SEOUL/MOSCOW (Reuters) - North Korea’s latest missile test puts Washington within range, but Pyongyang still needs to prove it has mastered critical missile technology, such as re-entry, terminal stage guidance and warhead activation, South Korea said on Friday.
South Korea’s Ministry of Defence said the Hwasong-15 missile tested on Wednesday was a new type of intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) which can fly over 13,000 km (8,080 miles), placing Washington within target range.
The test prompted a warning from the United States that North Korea’s leadership would be “utterly destroyed” if war were to break out, a statement that drew sharp criticism from Russia.
On Friday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov termed the threat from U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley “a bloodthirsty tirade” and said military action against Pyongyang would be a big mistake, Russian news agencies reported.
“We will do everything to ensure that (the use of force) doesn’t happen so that the problem is decided only using peaceful and political-diplomatic means,” Lavrov said.
Separately, Russian lawmakers just back from a visit to Pyongyang said North Korea was not prepared to disarm, and while it did not want nuclear war it was morally ready for it, Russia’s RIA news agency reported.
Pyongyang has said its Wednesday missile test was a “breakthrough” and leader Kim Jong Un said the country had “finally realised the great historic cause of completing the state nuclear force.”
After North Korea released video footage and photographs of Hwasong-15, U.S. based experts said it appeared North Korea was indeed capable of delivering a nuclear weapon anywhere in the United States and could only be two or three tests away from being combat ready.
Yeo Suk-joo, South Korea’s deputy minister of defence policy, told the South Korean parliament that North Korea still needed to prove some technologies, like re-entry, terminal stage guidance and warhead activation.
Even so, South Korea’s Unification Ministry said North Korea was likely to pause its missile tests for a number of reasons, including the northern hemisphere winter season.
“For now if there are no sudden changes in situation or external factors, we feel there is a high chance North Korea will refrain from engaging in provocations for a while,” said Lee Yoo-jin, the ministry’s deputy spokeswoman.
North Korea is known to test fewer missiles in the fourth quarter of the year as troops are called to help with harvests, while the cold temperatures are a strain on the country’s fuel supplies.
This week’s missile launch was the first in 75 days.
South Korea Defence Minister Song Young-moo told parliament  he expected North Korean leader Kim Jong Un to use his New Year’s Address to declare that North Korea had completed its weapons programme.
South Korean and U.S. officials say the Hwasong 15 is the most advanced missile North Korea has ever tested.
Yeo told lawmakers the first stage engine of the missile featured a clustering of two engines from a smaller Hwasong-14 ICBM test-launched in July.
He said the Hwasong-15 is two metres (six feet) longer than the Hwasong-14. He said the second-stage engine requires further analysis.
Yeo said U.S. strategic assets would continue to be rotated on and near the Korean peninsula until the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in South Korea next February in a bid to deter further North Korean “provocations.”
U.S. President Donald Trump has responded to the latest North Korean test with a fresh round of insults directed against Kim Jong Un, who he called “Little Rocket Man” and a “sick puppy.”
Trump has vowed to respond with tougher sanctions, but his administration has warned that all options are on the table in dealing with North Korea, including military ones.
North Korea has stuck to its effort to develop a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the United States in spite of  years of international sanctions and condemnation.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Michael Flynn, former national security adviser to President Donald Trump, is prepared to testify that Trump directed him to make contact with Russians when he was a presidential candidate, ABC News reported on Friday.
Reuters has not verified the ABC News report, which cited a Flynn confidant.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A U.S. House panel on Friday approved legislation that would renew the National Security Agency’s warrantless internet surveillance program, despite objections from the technology sector and civil liberties groups over inadequate privacy protection.
The House Intelligence Committee passed 13-8 the measure to reauthorize Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act for a further four years until 2021. The act is due to expire on Dec. 31 in the absence of congressional action.
The bill’s passage signaled that Congress remained far from consensus on how to renew Section 702, as several rival bills with various new privacy provisions circulated in the House and Senate, with no clear path forward for any measure.
Intelligence agencies say Section 702 is vital to national security and protecting American allies, and the Trump administration wants minimal changes to it.
But privacy advocates criticized the intelligence panel’s bill for not requiring a warrant to access collected data belonging to Americans.
Reform Government Surveillance, a group representing major tech companies including Facebook (FB.O), Alphabet’s Google (GOOGL.O) and Apple (AAPL.O) that presses governments around the world to bolster digital privacy protections, issued a lengthy statement Thursday denouncing the measure, which it said may expand government surveillance.
All Republicans on the intelligence panel supported the measure, while all Democrats opposed it due to a mix of concerns, including language that would revise how government officials can “unmask” the identity of Americans’ names’ typically redacted in intelligence intercepts.
Republicans, including President Donald Trump, have accused without evidence the previous administration of President Barack Obama, a Democrat, of improperly unmasking names for political reasons, a charge Democrats have rejected.
Section 702 allows the NSA to collect vast amounts of digital communications from foreign suspects living outside the United States.
But the program, classified details of which were exposed in 2013 by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, incidentally gathers communications of Americans for a variety of technical reasons, including if they communicate with a foreign target living overseas. Those communications can then be subject to searches without a warrant, including by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
The House Judiciary Committee last month passed by 27-8 another measure that partially restricts the FBI’s ability to review American data collected under Section 702 by requiring the agency to obtain a warrant when seeking evidence of crime, but not in other cases such as for data related to counterterrorism.


DHAKA (Reuters) - Pope Francis celebrated a huge outdoor Mass on Friday to ordain new priests from Bangladesh on his first full day in the country where he is due to meet Muslim Rohingya refugees from Myanmar later in the day.
More than 100,000 people attended the Mass in Dhaka’s Suhrawardy Udyan Park, site of a memorial and museum of Bangladesh’s independence from Pakistan in 1971, where Francis arrived in an open popemobile.
Catholics make up less than one percent of the population of 169 million people in majority-Muslim Bangladesh.
“I know that many of you came from afar, for a trip for more than two days,” the pope told the crowd in his homily.
“Thank you for your generosity. This indicates the love you have for the Church.”
At an inter-religious gathering later on Friday, the pope was due to meet 18 Rohingya refugees who have fled to Bangladesh from Myanmar where authorities have been accused of ethnic cleansing by the United States and United Nations.
The government denies wrongdoing.
In calls for peace in Myanmar, he did not use the word Rohingya to describe the refugees, which is contested by the Yangon government and military.
The refugees were brought to the Bangladeshi capital from Cox’s Bazar, to where 625,000 Rohingya from Myanmar’s Rakhine state have fled.
The exodus followed a Myanmar military crackdown in response to Rohingya militant attacks on an army base and police posts on Aug. 25.
Scores of Rohingya villages were burnt to the ground, and refugees arriving in Bangladesh told of killings and rapes.
On Thursday night, the pope called for decisive measures to resolve the political reasons that caused the refugee crisis and urged countries to help the Dhaka government deal with it.


PESHAWAR, Pakistan (Reuters) - Pakistani Taliban gunmen disguised in all-enveloping burqas stormed the campus of an agricultural college in Pakistan on Friday, killing at least nine people and wounding 35, police and hospital officials said.
Police and army troops summoned to the scene killed all of the attackers at the Agriculture Training Institute in the northwestern city of Peshawar about two hours into the attack, the military’s press wing said.
The Pakistani Taliban claimed responsibility, saying in a message from spokesman Mohammad Khorasani that they had targeted a safe house of the military’s Inter-Services Intelligence agency.
The gunmen arrived at the campus in an auto-rickshaw, disguised in the burqas worn by many women in the region, Peshawar police chief Tahir Khan said.
They shot and wounded a guard before entering the campus, he said.
A wounded student, Ahteshan ul-Haq, told Reuters the university hostel usually houses nearly 400 students, but most had gone home for a long holiday weekend and only about 120 students remained.
“We were sleeping when we heard gunshots. I got up and within seconds everybody was running and shouting ‘the Taliban have attacked’,” he said.
The Pakistani Taliban later released a video showing the attack, recorded with what appeared to be a body-mounted camera. In it, one of the gunmen raced into a building shouting “Allahu Akbar!” and firing his weapon as he went room to room searching for students.
The militants also issued photos of the attackers, who they said were from nearby Swat Valley, singing with the movement’s fugitive leader, Mullah Fazlullah, before their mission.
Shehzad Akbar, medical director of Hayatabad Medical Complex, said six people died of their wounds and 18 were being treated. Another three people died at Khyber Teaching Hospital and 17 wounded were there, director Nekdad Afridi said.
In December 2014, Pakistani Taliban gunmen killed 134 children at Peshawar’s Army Public School, one of the single deadliest attacks in the country’s history.
The Pakistani Taliban are fighting to topple the government and install a strict interpretation of Islamic law. They are loosely allied with the Afghan Taliban insurgents who ruled most of Afghanistan until they were overthrown by U.S.-backed military action in 2001.


ROME (Reuters) - Egyptian billionaire businessman Naguib Sawiris condemned on Friday a crackdown on graft in Saudi Arabia, saying the purge had undermined the rule of law in the Kingdom and would deter investment.
In unusually outspoken comments, Sawiris, a well-known business figure in North Africa and the Middle East, also accused Qatar of destabilising the region, and said there were only a handful of Arab nations that were safe to invest in.
Saudi security forces rounded up dozens of members of the country’s political and business elite last month on the orders of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in what was billed as a war on rampant corruption.
Sawiris, whose family’s Orascom businesses have interests ranging from construction to telecommunications, said influential figures should stand up to the Crown Prince, whom he referred to as “this young man”.
“We need to tell him ‘no’. There is the rule of law and order. You have a transparent process. Where is the court? What is the evidence? Who is the judge?” he told a conference in Rome, questioning the Crown Prince’s motives.
“Are you not part of this? Where did you get your money? Didn’t you do this? What is the system?” he said.
Prince Mohammed has said Saudi Arabia needs to modernise and has warned that without reform, the economy will sink into a crisis that could fan unrest. Critics say his purge is aimed at shoring up his own power base, which the Saudi government denies.
Sawiris said “everyone with a conscience” should speak out, but added that many were too frightened to do so.
“Everyone is scared because they have interests there, they have the oil, they have the money. But you need to have a conscience. When I say this, I know I am done-for in Saudi Arabia. No more business (there). Ok, I don’t care.”
A monthly Reuters poll published on Thursday showed Middle East fund managers had become more positive towards Saudi Arabian equities after an initial market sell-off following the launch of the anti-graft drive.
But Sawiris, who is not known to have major investments in Saudi Arabia, predicted business leaders would steer clear of the country in future.
“I think after what happened in Saudi Arabia, no one will invest there,” he said.
Sawiris also took aim at Iran, accusing the country of interfering in the affairs of its neighbours. He likewise denounced Qatar, saying it was funding terror groups.
“Why don’t they take care of the prosperity of their own people instead of financing crazy clergymen who push young men to go and kill?” he said.
A group of Arab nations led by Saudi Arabia and Egypt cut ties with Qatar in June, accusing it of fomenting instability. Qatar, a tiny Gulf state, has denied supporting militants.
Asked where was safe to invest in the Arab world, Sawiris mentioned Egypt, Morocco, Tunisia, Jordan and Sudan, but jokingly dismissed Lebanon.
“The problem with Lebanon is they are all sharks and they leave nothing to anyone. Only a crazy person would invest in Lebanon,” he said.


QAMISHLI, Syria (Reuters) - Kurdish-led authorities held local elections on Friday in areas they control in northern Syria, pushing ahead with autonomy plans opposed by both the government of President Bashar al-Assad and by Turkey.
Kurdish forces and their political allies now hold the largest part of Syria outside the grip of Assad’s government. They have captured vast territory from Islamic State with the support of U.S. arms, jets and ground advisers, although Washington opposes their autonomy drive.
Kurdish leaders say their goal is to establish self-rule within Syria, not secession. But their influence has infuriated Ankara, which considers the Kurdish YPG militia to be an offshoot of the banned Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) that has run a decades-long insurgency in Turkey.
Assad has vowed to recover every inch of the country, as his territorial grip expanded rapidly over the past two years with help from Russia and Iran. Damascus has more forcefully asserted its claim to territory held by Kurdish-led forces in recent months.
The head of Syria’s delegation to U.N.-backed peace talks in Geneva, Bashar al-Ja‘afari, rejected the election, repudiating “any unilateral act that happens without coordination” with Damascus.
Since Syria’s conflict began more than six years ago, the dominant Kurdish parties have been left out of international diplomacy in line with Turkish wishes. They were excluded again from U.N.-led peace talks which reconvened in Geneva this week.
Hadiya Yousef, a senior Kurdish politician, said the Kurdish-led administration would not be bound by decisions taken in its absence.
“We are not present in these meetings, and therefore we are developing the solution on the ground,” Yousef told Reuters. Peace talks would not “arrive at solutions” so long as they do not involve those running 30 percent of the country, she added.
Voters are picking from close to 6,000 candidates for town and city councils on Friday, the second part of a three-stage process that will culminate in electing a parliament early next year. They chose representatives for smaller-scale district councils in September.
“Everyone should take part (in the election) because this is the fate of the entire region,” said Sheikhmous Qamishlo, a 65-year-old Syrian Kurd at a polling station in Qamishli.
“This is a new experience, we wish it success,” he said, and described casting his vote as a “national duty”.
The election was being monitored by a small group of politicians from other countries in the Middle East, Yousef said, including a member of the Kurdistan Democratic Party which runs the autonomous Kurdish region in neighbouring Iraq.
Yousef said the Iraqi Kurdish official’s presence was “a kind of recognition” of the Syrian Kurdish political project. The Iraqi Kurdish authorities, whose own plans for independence were met with a swift backlash from states in the region in the past two months, have previously been hostile to the Syrian Kurdish parties.


ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish authorities have issued an arrest warrant for a former officer of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) over suspected links to last year’s failed coup, the Hurriyet daily said on Friday, in a further blow to troubled U.S.-Turkey ties.
The Istanbul prosecutor’s office is seeking the detention of Graham Fuller, former vice chairman of the National Intelligence Council and CIA officer in Turkey, on suspicion that he helped to plan the July 2016 coup attempt, Hurriyet said.
It said prosecutors had also issued an arrest warrant for Henri Barkey, a prominent Turkey scholar based in the United States, on suspicion of involvement in planning the coup.
The Istanbul prosecutor’s office declined to comment on the matter. Neither Fuller nor Barkey could immediately be reached for comment.
The arrest warrants, if confirmed, will put further strain on relations between NATO allies Turkey and the United States, already at loggerheads over a wide range of issues.
Hurriyet said Turkish authorities believed Fuller had left Turkey after the abortive coup, in which rogue soldiers commandeered tanks and helicopters in an attempt to oust President Tayyip Erdogan and his government.
It said the warrant marked the first time that Turkish authorities have been able to confirm Fuller’s whereabouts before and after the putsch.
Erdogan accuses U.S.-based Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen and his supporters of organising the coup, in which more than 250 people were killed. Gulen, a former ally of Erdogan, has condemned the coup and denies any involvement.
Turkey has asked the United States to extradite Gulen for trial but U.S. officials say it has failed to provide sufficient evidence to justify such a move, infuriating Erdogan.
Turkish authorities have shut down businesses, media outlets and schools belonging to Gulen and have sacked or suspended some 150,000 people including soldiers, journalists, academics and judges over their possible links to his network. Nearly 50,000 people suspected of involvement in the coup have been jailed.
Human rights groups and some Western politicians have accused Erdogan of using the crackdown to muzzle dissent in Turkey, but the government says the purges are necessary due to the gravity of the security threats it faces.


HARARE (Reuters) - A Zimbabwean court has postponed former finance minister Ignatius Chombo’s bail hearing to next Tuesday, state radio reported on Friday.
The High Court had been due to sit for the hearing on Friday. Chombo, detained by the military before Robert Mugabe resigned as president, is accused of corruption, including trying to defraud the central bank in 2004.
His lawyer says Chombo will deny the allegations at his trial.


ANKARA (Reuters) - Allegations of wrongdoing by Turkey’s political and financial leaders have transfixed the country this week, but with some newspapers focusing instead on courtroom conspiracies and clothes, many Turks have been left hungry for news.
“Casual chic on the 2nd day”, read HaberTurk newspaper’s front page story after main witness Reza Zarrab told a New York court that President Recep Tayyip Erdogan authorized a transaction in a scheme to help Iran evade U.S. sanctions.
“On the second day of the trial, Reza Zarrab was not wearing a prison uniform and was casual chic in his white shirt and dark blazer,” HaberTurk said.
Like other publications, HaberTurk stepped nimbly around the substantive issues. Erdogan has presided over a crackdown in areas from judiciary to media since a failed coup last year with a number of journalists jailed. He has also frequently taken court action against those he deems have insulted him.
Zarrab is cooperating with U.S. prosecutors in the criminal trial of a Turkish bank executive accused of helping to launder money for Iran. The executive has pleaded not guilty.
Erdogan, who has governed Turkey for almost 15 years, has not yet responded to courtroom claims; but had already dismissed the case as a politically inspired attempt to bring down the Turkish government.
He says the network of U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, blamed by Ankara for the failed military coup and known by Turkish authorities as FETO, was also behind the court case.
“AMERICAN THEATRE”
The pro-government daily Star branded the case “American Theatre” on its front page. “Zarrab plot trial is a political show staged by FETO together with judges, prosecutors and experts who are all Neo-cons and enemies of Turkey.”
The limited or sceptical coverage of the case has encouraged curious Turks to take to Twitter, where hashtags such as #Zarrabcase and #Zarrabkonusuyor (Zarrab is speaking) became top trending topics late on Wednesday and Thursday.
Since the trial started this week there have been hundreds of thousands of tweets, retweets and replies with Zarrab-related hashtags on Twitter.
“You can’t see it on televisions or newspapers here. They either cut feeds or don’t mention it,” said Oguzcan Gundogmus, a 24-year-old PhD student, as he sipped tea in central Ankara.
The court case has reverberated on the streets. “Spill the beans, my son!” one elderly protester urged Zarrab at a women’s demonstration in Istanbul last weekend.
But most of the focus has been online. Followers of journalists tweeting from inside the courtroom surged over the past two days, more than 20-fold in some cases. One court reporter’s tweets are being simultaneously translated into Turkish and followed by 10,000 people so far.
Zarrab said in court he bribed several officials in Turkey as part of his scheme.
”I am surprised the government hasn’t still banned Twitter. Me and my friends stay up at nights and follow the case there, we even make popcorn like it’s a movie night, and we call the case “Lord of the Bribes,” said Mehmet Baglar, a 34-year-old engineer.


(Reuters) - An influential group of Islamist scholars has rejected its inclusion in a terrorism blacklist compiled by four Arab countries boycotting Qatar, the Gulf Arab state where it is based.
Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Bahrain added the International Union of Muslim Scholars (IUMS)to the list last week, saying it used “Islamic rhetoric as a cover to facilitate terrorist activities.”
The group, listed along with another entity and 11 individuals, dismissed the move as unacceptable.
“These accusations against IUMS are baseless and we consider this attempt to weaken the leadership of an institution that represents 90,000 scholars and hundreds of millions of Muslims for political purposes unacceptable and illogical,” the group said in a statement on its Twitter account.
The union was formed in 2004 mostly by clerics belonging to the Muslim Brotherhood, the Arab world’s oldest and largest Islamist organisation, and is chaired by prominent preacher Sheikh Youssef al-Qaradawi.
Some Gulf states are wary of the Brotherhood’s acceptance of the ballot box, a position that challenges the Gulf tradition of dynastic rule and offers an alternative interpretation of the role of Islam in politics.
The four countries cut ties with Qatar in June, accusing it of financing militants in Syria and allying with Iran, their regional foe. Qatar denies the charges.
Members of the union include the Saudi cleric Salman al-Awdah, who was arrested by Saudi authorities in September, the Tunisian Rached Ghannouchi, head of the Ennahda party, and Moroccan scholar Ahmed Raissouni.


BEIRUT (Reuters) - Syrian insurgents brought down an army helicopter in southwest Syria on Friday, near the Israel-occupied Golan Heights, a war monitoring group said.
The Syrian military could not immediately be reached for comment.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the aircraft went down in government territory southwest of Damascus after a missile hit it. Rebels are fighting Syrian government forces in the vicinity.
Two Syrian army officers from the helicopter’s crew died, the Britain-based monitor said.


DAR ES SALAAM (Reuters) - Tanzania’s power utility said on Friday it had started to restore electricity to parts of the country after the East African nation was hit by a country-wide blackout on Thursday morning.
“Efforts are ongoing to make sure that power supply is restored to all parts of the country,” the state-run Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) said in a statement.  
TANESCO apologised for the power outage, but did not explain what caused a “technical glitch” in the national power grid that left the region’s No. 3 economy in a blackout that lasted more than 12 hours on Thursday.
Power was restored in many parts of commercial capital Dar es Salaam late on Thursday.
TANESCO said it had also restored electricity in the administrative capital Dodoma, as well as Iringa region in the centre and Tanga in the north east.
Partial blackouts occur regularly in Tanzania, which relies on hydro, natural gas and heavy fuel oil to generate electricity. Many businesses use power generators as backups, pushing up their operating costs.
Tanzania’s energy infrastructure has suffered from decades of underinvestment, neglect and corruption allegations, and investors have long complained the lack of reliable power hurts business there.
President John Magufuli is pushing a major hydropower project at Stiegler’s Gorge in the UNESCO-designated Selous Game Reserve to help tackle chronic electricity shortages.
The project would more than double the country’s current power generation capacity of around 1,500 megawatts (MW). The government has not said how much the project would cost or how it would raise financing, but wants it completed within three years.
Tanzania aims to boost power generation capacity to 10,000 MW over the next decade by also using some of its vast natural gas and coal reserves.


BERLIN (Reuters) - German Social Democrat (SPD) leader Martin Schulz said on Friday that his party broadly agreed it should not rule out any options for a new government and stressed that another conservative tie-up was not a foregone conclusion.
Schulz was speaking after attending a meeting with Chancellor Angela Merkel and her Bavarian ally Horst Seehofer with President Frank-Walter Steinmeier late on Thursday that aimed to end political deadlock in Europe’s largest economy.
“What I can tell you is that we discussed the situation in the SPD party board meeting intensively ... Regarding the formation of a new government, there was broad support for not ruling any option out,” Schulz said at the SPD headquarters in Berlin.
He denied he had agreed to a re-run of the conservative alliance that has ruled Germany for the last four years and added that forming another such coalition was “not automatic”.


BERLIN (Reuters) - A senior German conservative said on Friday that his party was prepared to go into coalition talks with the Social Democrats (SPD) after party leaders met with the president late on Thursday to try to put an end to political impasse in Germany.
“It’s now up to the SPD to provide clarity,” said CDU manager Klaus Schueler, adding that the conservatives respected the approach of SPD party leader Martin Schulz to first discuss how to proceed at a party congress next week.
“The fact that we underlined today that we are prepared to enter such talks with the SPD shows that we’re aiming to bring these talks to a successful conclusion,” he added.


ANKARA (Reuters) - A strong earthquake of magnitude 6.0 struck southeastern Iran on Friday, injuring at least 42 people and destroying several homes in an area where most people live in villages of mud-walled homes. State media said no deaths had been reported.
Rescue workers, special teams with sniffer dogs and units of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards and Basij militia forces were sent to the quake-hit areas in Kerman province, Iran’s semi-official Fars news agency said.
State TV said many residents rushed out of houses in Kerman city and nearby villages and towns, fearing more tremors after some 51 aftershocks following the 6:32 a.m. (0232 GMT) quake.
“The quake destroyed some houses in 14 villages but so far there has been no fatalities,” a local official told state TV. “Fortunately no deaths have been reported so far.”
The quake struck less than three weeks after a magnitude 7.3 earthquake hit villages and towns in Iran’s western Kermansheh province along the mountainous border with Iraq, killing 530 people and injuring thousands of others.
The U.S. Geological Survey said Friday’s quake, at first reported as magnitude 6.3, was centered 36 miles (58 km) northeast of Kerman city, which has a population of more than 821,000. The quake was very shallow, at a depth of 6.2 miles (10 km), which would have amplified the shaking in the poor, sparsely populated area.
Head of Relief and Rescue Organization of Iran’s Red Crescent Morteza Salimi told state television that at least 42 people were injured. Iran’s state news agency IRNA said most of those hurt had minor injuries.
“Assessment teams are surveying the earthquake-stricken areas and villages in Kerman province,” IRNA quoted local official Mohammadreza Mirsadeqi as saying.
Iran’s semi-official Tasnim news agency said the quake had caused heavy damage in Hojedk town and some villages were hit by power and water cuts.
State TV aired footage of damaged buildings in remote mountainous villages near Hojedk town, the epicenter of the earthquake with a population of 3,000 people. TV said coal mines in the area had been closed because of aftershocks.
Iran’s Red Crescent said emergency shelter, food and water had been sent to the quake-hit areas.
Criss-crossed by several major fault lines, Iran is one of the most earthquake-prone countries in the world. In 2003, a magnitude 6.6 quake in Kerman province killed 31,000 people and flattened the ancient city of Bam.


CAIRO (Reuters) - Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi’s strongest potential challenger in the country’s 2018 election plans to return from exile in the coming weeks, his daughter said on Friday.
Ahmed Shafik, a former air force commander and government minister, said this week he intended to run for president in a surprise announcement from the United Arab Emirates (UAE), where he is based.
Shafik’s daughter May Shafik told Reuters on Friday he was preparing to depart, first for Europe and the United States.
“Then he will head back to Egypt to start his presidential campaign,” she said.
Shafik had been prevented from leaving the UAE in previous days but had now received assurances that he could travel freely, she said, without specifying who gave the assurances.
The UAE denied placing any movement restrictions on Shafik, after a video of him aired by Qatari-owned TV channel Al Jazeera said he had been barred from travel.
May Shafik said there had been no intention to release that video, and that it had been leaked to Al Jazeera. The video was filmed as a precaution, she said.
The UAE is an ally of Sisi’s government, which has been officially silent on Shafik’s candidacy announcement.
Several Egyptian TV pundits, however, came out against Shafik in a sign of opposition he is likely to face from state-linked media.
Shafik is the most serious potential challenger yet to Sisi, who is widely expected to seek a second term, although he has not yet announced he will run.
Sisi as a military commander led the ousting of former president Mohamed Mursi of the Muslim Brotherhood in 2013, before his own landslide election a year later.
Sisi’s supporters see him as key to stability following prolonged, violent upheaval that followed the 2011 Egyptian revolt that toppled president Hosni Mubarak. Sisi’s government is fighting an Islamist militant insurgency in the Sinai region and has also enacted painful austerity reforms over the last year that critics say have dented his popularity.
Shafik, a minister under Mubarak, narrowly lost to Mursi in Egypt’s 2012 election before fleeing overseas.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson will visit Moscow on Dec. 22 and hold talks with his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov during his trip, two sources with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters.
The British government announced in October that Johnson would travel to Moscow later this year - the first visit to Russia by a British foreign minister in five years - to discuss international security issues.
The date and details of his visit have not been previously reported.
Johnson’s visit comes at a time when relations between London and Moscow are strained by differences over Ukraine and Syria as well as by allegations, which Russia flatly denies, of it meddling in the politics of various European countries.
Two sources with direct knowledge of Johnson’s visit, who declined to be named because they were not authorised to speak to the media, said Britain’s top diplomat would be in the Russian capital on Friday, Dec. 22.
Alan Duncan, a junior foreign minister, will visit Russia next week to lay the ground for Johnson’s visit.
Johnson has said he wants to engage with Russia despite describing Britain’s relationship with Moscow as “not straightforward” and has suggested the West has also made mistakes in how it has handled Russia ties.
Britain’s foreign ministry says Johnson wants to use his visit to discuss North Korea, Iran and regional stability in the Middle East, as well as security for the 2018 World Cup soccer tournament in Russia.
Johnson has said he plans to also speak to figures from Russian society and the “next generation”.
He first planned to go to Moscow in March, but Britain cancelled that visit at the last minute citing changes to his schedule.
Johnson then cancelled a rescheduled visit in April due to a poison gas attack in a rebel-held area of Syria that prompted the United States to carry out missile strikes. The West accused the Syrian government, which is backed by Russia, of carrying out the attack, something Damascus and Moscow denied.
Johnson’s cancellations drew withering responses from the Russian foreign ministry whose spokeswoman, Maria Zakharova, has called him unprofessional, organised an online cartoon competition that mocked him, and strongly disputed some of his assertions about Syria.


ZURICH (Reuters) - A Swiss federal court has dismissed the asylum appeal of a woman convicted in Spain of supporting the Basque separatist group ETA, but said she was now free to remain in Switzerland after Madrid dropped her sentence.
The case of Nekane Txapartegi, who said she was tortured while in custody in Spain before fleeing in 2007, has drawn considerable attention in Switzerland, with members of a “Free Nekane” movement staging rallies in Zurich and other cities.
The United Nations’ special rapporteur on torture and Amnesty International had also urged Swiss authorities not to extradite Txapartegi to Spain.
On Friday the Swiss court said the asylum issue was no longer relevant because Spain’s High Court had ruled that her sentence - initially 11 years in jail, later reduced to 3-1/2 years - had reached its statute of limitations.
“As with every European citizen, Ms. Txapartegi may stay in Switzerland within the rules of free movement,” a spokesman for the State Secretariat for Migration said.
Switzerland is not in the European Union but EU citizens can settle there provided they are in gainful employment or can prove they have sufficient funds to support themselves.
Swiss authorities arrested Txapartegi in Zurich in April 2016 after they discovered she had been living under an assumed name in Switzerland since 2009. They agreed in March this year to extradite her but freed her in September after the Spanish decision to drop her jail sentence.
Txapartegi had told Swiss authorities she was tortured into confessing support for ETA while in Spanish custody. The Swiss Federal Office of Justice said at the time she ”could “not credibly show that she was actually tortured”.
On Friday the Swiss court said that, given the conditions prevailing in Spain at the time of her arrest, she may well have been subjected to physical and psychological abuse, but said it no longer needed to evaluate her claims.
ETA, which killed more than 850 people in a decades-long campaign to carve out a separate state, effectively ended its armed resistance this year when it surrendered its weapons.


OSLO (Reuters) - Norway and Germany have agreed to develop a common missile for their navies based on Kongsberg Gruppen’s Naval Strike Missile (NSM), the Norwegian defence ministry said on Friday.
It did not say how long the development was expected to take.


KIEV (Reuters) - Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said at a meeting with businesses on Friday that it will become harder to muster votes in parliament for reformist legislation as elections approach.
Ukraine is due to go to the polls by 2019 at the latest. Delays in implementing reforms to modernise the economy and tackle corruption have delayed billions of dollars of aid from the International Monetary Fund and other foreign backers.


DENPASAR, Indonesia (Reuters) - A window appeared to be closing on Friday for travellers stranded on the Indonesian holiday island of Bali as airlines cut back on flights, fearing a return of plumes of volcanic ash.
An erupting volcano closed the airport for most of this week, stranding thousands of visitors from Australia, China and other countries, before the winds changed and flights resumed.
Australian budget airline Jetstar said it would cancel nine flights on Friday after meteorological officials warned the ash could hit operations at Bali airport, about 60 km (37 miles) southwest of the Mount Agung volcano.
Malaysia’s AirAsia Bhd (AIRA.KL) said it would only operate out of Bali during the day, as the ash could impair visibility at night and wind conditions in the area were unpredictable.
“They don’t have an answer if they have space for us for the next flight,” said Martim Cazado, a traveller who was trying to get home to Portugal via Singapore but had been unable to get a flight.
He was worried he might be stuck waiting in front of the Bali airport’s departure hall for a few days, he added.
A column of white smoke and ash hung above Mount Agung, where tremors continued, meteorological officials said, although with decreasing frequency, while lava sparks flash at night.
Ash was visible to the southeast of Mount Agung, the Darwin Volcanic Ash Advisory Centre said on its website.
“Volcanological sources indicate a larger eruption is still possible,” it said.
The wind was blowing the ash towards the east and the airport was clear for normal operations, Indonesia’s transport ministry said in a statement.
Jetstar and its parent, Qantas Airways Ltd (QAN.AX), had planned up to 18 flights on Friday to ferry 4,300 passengers home to Australia, including one by a Qantas 747 jet.
But Jetstar will cancel nine flights after “a sudden change in today’s forecast for this evening in Bali,” it said in a website update.
Other airlines with regular Bali flights, including Singapore Airlines Ltd (SIAL.SI) and Garuda Indonesia (GIAA.JK), have not posted website updates on Friday evening’s flight plans.
Airlines avoid flying through volcanic ash as it can damage aircraft engines, clogging fuel and cooling systems, hampering pilot visibility and even causing engine failure.
A tropical cyclone south of Java island altered wind direction in the area, including for Bali, where it could bring heavy rains and strong winds until Saturday, the Indonesian Meteorological, Climatological and Geophysics agency said.
About 10,700 foreign and 6,400 domestic tourists left Bali on Thursday, airport data showed.
Thousands of residents remain in a 10-km (6-mile) danger zone around the volcano, reluctant to leave for religious reasons or unwilling to abandon homes and livestock.
A rescue team escorted 10 people off its southwestern slope on Friday, some of whom said they had endured days of falling ash and feared potentially deadly volcanic mud flows.
An estimated 90,000 to 100,000 people live in the danger area near the volcano in eastern Bali.


MANILA (Reuters) - A Philippine college fraternity used its annual naked run on Friday to protest against President Rodrigo Duterte’s brutal war on drugs and the imposition of martial law in the south in the army’s fight against Islamist militants.
The masked and hooded young men sprinted in the nude through their college, holding signs reading “Lift Martial Law” and “Stop the Killings”, as bystanders laughed and pointed and others took photos.
“The level of violence in society is growing and the fraternity cannot simply ignore that, that thousands of people are dying”, Alpha Phi Omega spokesperson Thomas Roca said, when asked why the fraternity picked the protest theme this year. 
Since taking office last June, Duterte has launched a ferocious war of drugs that has left thousands of Filipinos dead, and in May, he imposed martial law in Mindanao, an island of 22 million people, when Islamic State-linked militants took over large parts of the city of Marawi.
This is not the first time the fraternity has taken a political stance with its yearly bare-bottomed event.
The society used its naked run during the rule of late dictator Ferdinand Marcos in the 1980s to protest against the censorship of activists at the University of the Philippines.
For a finale on Friday, the men gathered by a pond, arms slung over each other’s shoulders, and lustily sang their fraternity song, alumni members in the audience joining in as well.
“It’s my first time seeing this”, college student Haji Viado said, with a smile. “But for me what they did was effective to get people’s attention on these issues.”   


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States plans to impose additional sanctions against North Korea very soon, a White House spokeswoman said on Wednesday after Pyongyang said it had it successfully tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile and could now reach the U.S. mainland with its nuclear weapons.
“We’re going to add additional sanctions very shortly that will continue to put that maximum pressure on North Korea,” White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told Fox News in an interview.
Sanders also said the administration would also “try to push Russia to take a bigger and bolder stance to put more pressure on North Korea.”


ZAGREB (Reuters) - Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic said on Wednesday he regretted the death of Slobodan Praljak, the wartime commander of Bosnian Croat forces who died after he drank poison in The Hague.
“His act, which we regrettably saw today, mostly speaks about a deep moral injustice towards six Croats from Bosnia and the Croatian people ... We voice dissatisfaction and regret about the verdict,” Plenkovic said.
Praljak drank poison seconds after a United Nations judges turned down his appeal against a 20-year sentence for war crimes against Bosnian Muslims.


ROME (Reuters) - Many of Italy’s leading politicians are promising more money for pensioners after elections next year, campaigning to undo reforms that economists say stabilised the country’s finances at the height of the euro zone debt crisis six years ago.
Italy still spends more than 16 percent of its GDP on state pensions, the second highest percentage in Europe after Greece, despite a package of deep cuts imposed by a government of technocrats in 2011 that helped halt a sell-off of its bonds.
The reform, named after then-Welfare Minister Elsa Fornero, was never fully accepted by Italians. It raised the retirement age and requires further rises to be phased in over time, with the next hike -- to 67 years from 66 years and 5 months -- due to take place on Jan. 1, 2019.
But politicians from right-wing and anti-establishment parties expected to be among the leaders after an election in May next year say they want to repeal the reform, blocking future cuts and undoing those that have already taken place.
Economists say such a move could be a disaster for state finances. Italy’s ratio of debt to GDP is also the second highest in the European Union after Greece.
“If they undo the pension reform it will throw into doubt the sustainability of Italy’s pension system and its public finances in general,” said Lorenzo Codogno, head of LC Macro Advisors and former chief economist at the Italian Treasury.
Tito Boeri, the head of state pensions agency INPS, told Reuters on Wednesday that net emigration and a falling birth rate meant it would be hard to fund the pension system over the next 30 years, even if current legislation is left untouched.
“I am reading about proposals from the parties (on pensions) that would cost billions and billions of euros, but we face very serious problems,” he said.
The centre-left government has so far resisted calls from senior officials in the ruling Democratic Party (PD) to scrap the 2019 increase in the retirement age.
However, under trade union pressure, it recently exempted 15 labour categories with “onerous” jobs, ranging from midwives and nursery school teachers to cleaners and lorry drivers.
That was not enough for the largest trade union, the CGIL, which has called for a day of street protests on Saturday, and it may be only a foretaste of what happens after the election.
“The Fornero law is a scandal,” says Carla Ruocco, a prominent lawmaker from the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement which leads in opinion polls. “It keeps people at work against their will, leads to an older labour force and makes it harder for young people to find work.”
Anti-immigrant Northern League leader Matteo Salvini, a core member of a centre-right coalition that looks set to win most parliamentary seats, says abolishing the Fornero Law should be “the first act” of the next government.
The law gradually raised the pension age for women to 65 in 2018 from 60 in 2011, to bring it more into line with the rules for men, and prescribed regular increases for both men and women thereafter, based on updated estimates of life expectancy.
It also tightened up the requirements for taking earlier retirement, which are now calculated on the basis of the number of years worked, rather than age.
While 5-Star and the Northern League want to bring down the retirement age, former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi, a coalition ally of Salvini, has promised to raise the pensions of those who have already retired. The 81-year-old media tycoon has pledged to double minimum pensions to 1,000 euros per month, at a cost of at least 4 billion euros (£3.53 billion) per year.
Politicians of all stripes say the pension system has now reached long-term sustainability, though some economists dispute this, saying trends on demographics and economic growth are more negative than those assumed under the Fornero reform.
Whatever the trends in the longer term, for the next 10 years Italy will continue to fork out far more on pensions than most of its partners, according to Eurostat projections.
This not only makes it harder for the country to reduce its huge public debt, but sucks resources from other, more productive uses such as investment in education and infrastructure.


ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey’s military said on Wednesday that more than 80 militants were killed in an air strike on Monday in northern Iraq, where Turkish jets have frequently targeted PKK fighters.
It said in a statement that a weapons depot and two vehicles were also destroyed in the air strike.
The Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), which has been waging an insurgency in southeast Turkey since the 1980s, also has bases across the border in Iraq.


SHANGHAI/BEIJING (Reuters) - When RYB Education Inc became enmeshed in allegations of child abuse at one of its Beijing kindergartens, it touched off an angry online furore in China, a police inquiry and a precipitous fall in the company’s New York-listed shares.
Barely a week later, the firm appears to have weathered much of the storm, for now. Chinese police said late on Tuesday some claims of abuse were unfounded, although one teacher was in custody for using knitting needles to discipline children.
The company’s shares closed up 23.33 percent in New York on Tuesday, after falling over 40 percent last week when allegations first emerged of abuse that included sexual molestation and forced medication.
However, shares fell over 10 percent in pre-market trade on Wednesday after the company said there were parent complaints about other RYB-branded kindergartens and that it was cooperating with police. It gave no other details.
RYB’s actions over the week represented a case of effective crisis management, experts said, rare in the Chinese corporate world where companies tend to hunker down in the face of adverse news and allow events to play out.
RYB appeared to have taken “some good corrective actions”, said James Robinson, managing director of communications consultancy APCO Worldwide’s Shanghai office, adding a well-oiled response and open channels of communication with government stakeholders were key.
“It’s essential for companies to respond swiftly, even if it’s just to acknowledge they are aware of an issue and are investigating further.”
Led by chief executive and founder Shi Yanlai, a vocal proponent for China’s early child education sector, RYB appeared to have hit all the right buttons last week.
“When I heard the news, I was personally shocked and very angry,” Shi said in an investors call on Friday.
“This issue has struck an alarm bell for us,” she said,  adding the firm would look to speed up the installation of “blanket surveillance” tools at its schools and day care centres.
RYB announced a $50 million share buyback and said it had dismissed a teacher suspected of involvement in the case as well as the head teacher of the Beijing school.
Shi helped set up RYB in 1998 when her own son was born. It now has over 1,300 play and learn centres and nearly 500 kindergartens in around 300 cities in China. Most are operated on a franchise model.
As the case became a lighting rod for wider anger in China about a lack of trained teachers, low wages and poor regulatory oversight in the massive and fast-growing private pre-school sector, Shi underscored that she was a mother herself and repeated frequently in local media interviews that the children were the top priority.
On Wednesday, the kindergarten in Beijing was operating as normal, with parents milling around waiting for children to finish class. A handful of police officers were the only sign of last week’s troubles.
At the company’s headquarters in southern Beijing, an RYB  official said the police had only released their preliminary findings and that the firm could not provide comment until the investigation had finished.
Shi also refused to comment for this story.
Teachers, investors and experts said RYB had so far had got off fairly lightly, with a lot of the anger being aimed at regulators and wider issues in the market. Beijing is sending inspectors to the city’s kindergartens, while China’s education ministry is doing a broad investigation into the sector.
“I‘m not really surprised,” wrote Zhang Xiaolong, an education sector executive who has half a million followers online, referring to Tuesday’s recovery in RYB’s shares.
“After such a serious issue, the government hasn’t taken away RYB’s license to operate schools, and so it seems like it’s being treated like an isolated incident.”
Teachers in China said the furore over the case - hundreds of millions posted online about it last week - reflected bubbling tensions over the fast development of the private pre-school sector and a lack of resources for teachers.
“Thresholds for kindergarten teachers getting into the profession are too low; but also status, social recognition and levels of respect for the role are lacking,” said Zhong Qian, the head of a private kindergarten in Chengdu.
“Increasingly there’s a mismatch between the demand from students and the need for teachers.”
RYB has survived similar scandals in the past, at another of its Beijing kindergartens earlier this year and before that at a nursery in northern Jilin province. Before it listed shares in New York in September, its IPO prospectus flagged abuse by teachers as a risk.
Teachers and academics, however, said that it was tough to stamp out abuse, especially at franchised, private-sector schools where competition was tough, requirements and checks on teachers were less strict and salaries were low.
“It’s often one of the poorest paid professions in China, certainly right down bottom of the pay scale,” said Geoffrey Crothall, communications director at China Labour Bulletin. “Schools often just want bodies in there who can supervise kids and pay them as little as possible.”
The state-run Global Times wrote on Wednesday that even after the police report, there was still fierce criticism online of the case.
“As often is the case when authorities intercede in a case that has touched a nerve about people’s welfare, a raging debate has continued to ferment,” the newspaper wrote in a commentary.
Robinson, the communications consultant, added: “For RYB, it seems they’ve taken some good corrective actions, but I don’t know whether it’s enough. The facts are still emerging.”


JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Israel plans to appoint a new ambassador to Jordan in a bid to calm Amman’s anger over the current envoy’s handling of a shooting by an embassy guard in July that has strained relations, an Israeli diplomatic source said on Wednesday.
But Israel has shown no sign of meeting Jordan’s demand that it launch criminal proceedings against the guard, who killed two Jordanians in what he called self-defence. He was repatriated along with Ambassador Einat Schlein a day after the incident.
Jordanian authorities say they suspect the shooting was unprovoked but could not investigate the guard due to his diplomatic immunity. A televised welcome he and Schlein received from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu outraged Amman.
Since Schlein’s departure on July 24 the embassy has been shuttered, casting a pall over Israel’s ties with Jordan, a U.S.-backed regional security partner and one of only two Arab countries that recognise Israel.
The 1994 peace deal with Israel is unpopular among many Jordanians, who often identify with the Palestinians.
An Israeli diplomatic source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Schlein would not return.
“The Jordanians don’t want her back, and this has been a big obstacle in patching things up,” the source said. “We’re looking for a replacement.”
Emmanuel Nahshon, spokesman for Israel’s Foreign Ministry, said: “We are working on a solution that will bring the relations back on track.”
Israel says the guard opened fire after being attacked and lightly wounded by a workman, killing him and a Jordanian bystander. Israeli officials have said they were looking into the possibility of compensating the family of the second man.
They say it is highly unlikely Israel would prosecute the guard, as demanded by Jordan. His prospects of continued work in Israeli diplomatic security abroad were in doubt, however, after a Jordanian newspaper published his name and photograph.
Israel’s consulates in Turkey have been handling Jordanian applications for Israeli visas since the incident.


OUAGADOUGOU (Reuters) - France’s President Emmanuel Macron told African youths on Tuesday that he belonged to a new generation of French leaders who would build partnerships with the continent rather than tell it what to do.
But a youth protest against him, stones pelting one of his delegation’s vehicles and a botched grenade attack on French troops hours before his arrival in Burkina Faso’s capital Ouagadougou showed the hostility that still lingers after decades of an often tense France-Africa relationship.
Macron was also subjected to rowdy student questions at the university after his speech in Burkina Faso’s capital Ouagadougou, and was sometimes left fruitlessly hushing as he struggled to get his answers heard above the crowd.
In his speech, peppered with references to African nationalists such as Nelson Mandela and Burkina’s revolutionary leader Thomas Sankara, Macron promised a break with a past in which France often seemed to call the shots to former colonies.
“I am from a generation that doesn’t come to tell Africans what to do,” Macron said during a speech to university students in the Burkinabe capital Ouagadougou, prompting an applause.
“I am from a generation for whom Nelson Mandela’s victory is one of the best political memories.”
The 39-year-old is on a three-day visit to Burkina Faso, Ghana and Ivory Coast aimed at boosting cooperation in education, the digital economy and migration.
“I will be alongside those who believe that Africa is neither a lost continent or one that needs to be saved,” he said.
The grenade attack missed the French soldiers but wounded three civilians hours before Macron arrived. No group claimed responsibility.
Stones were thrown at a delegation convoy, however Macron was far away from it at a meeting with his Burkina counterpart, Roch Marc Kabore in the presidential palace.
Dozens of local youths clashed with security forces in the centre of the capital throwing stones. Police responded with teargas. Protesters burnt T-shirts with images of Macron and carried slogans including “Down with new-colonialism” and “French military out of Burkina”.
It was not the first time a French president has promised to break with past French politics on the continent.
Macron’s predecessor Francois Hollande declared while visiting Senegal in 2012 that “the time of La Francafrique is over”, referring to a shadowy network of diplomats, soldiers and businessmen who manipulated African leaders for decades after independence.
But it comes at a tense time, when French troops are being sucked deeper into a years-long battle to quell Islamist militancy in the Sahel region.
France has 4,000 troops deployed there, and there are mixed feelings about their presence - highlighted in a bitter row between France and Mali over the deaths of 11 Malian troops being held captive by Islamist militants in a French air strike.
The French are pinning their hopes on the so-called G5 Sahel force being set up by regional country’s with French and American backing. It launched a campaign on Oct. 28 amid growing unrest in the desert reaches of the region, where jihadists allied to al Qaeda or inspired by Islamic State roam undetected.
Macron earlier told journalists G5 had been too slow to get established.
He said he would call for greater co-operation between Europe and Africa to tackle human trafficking and he touted a European initiative to rescue African migrants from being enslaved in Libya.
The exchange with heckling students was typical Macron, who during his presidential campaign often managed to turn initially hostile crowds in his favour by answering questions head on.
“You speak to me like I‘m a colonial power, but I don’t want to look after electricity in Burkina Faso. That’s the work of your president,” he retorted to one hostile questioner.


SEOUL/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - North Korea said it successfully tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile on Wednesday in a “breakthrough” that puts the U.S. mainland within range of its nuclear weapons whose warheads could withstand re-entry to the Earth’s atmosphere.
North Korea’s first missile test since mid-September came a week after U.S. President Donald Trump put North Korea back on a U.S. list of countries it says support terrorism, allowing it to impose more sanctions.
North Korea, which also conducted its sixth and largest nuclear test in September, has tested dozens of ballistic missiles under its leader, Kim Jong Un, in defiance of international sanctions. The latest was the highest and longest any North Korean missile had flown, landing in the sea near Japan.
North Korea said the new missile reached an altitude of about 4,475 km (2,780 miles) - more than 10 times the height of the International Space Station - and flew 950 km (590 miles) during its 53-minute flight.
“After watching the successful launch of the new type ICBM Hwasong-15, Kim Jong Un declared with pride that now we have finally realized the great historic cause of completing the state nuclear force, the cause of building a rocket power,” according to a statement read by a television presenter.
State media said the missile was launched from a newly developed vehicle and that the warhead could withstand the pressure of re-entering the atmosphere.
Kim personally guided the missile test and said the new launcher was “impeccable”, state media said. He described the new vehicle as a “breakthrough”.
North Korea also described itself as a “responsible nuclear power”, saying its strategic weapons were developed to defend itself from “the U.S. imperialists’ nuclear blackmail policy and nuclear threat”.
The U.N. Security Council was scheduled to meet on Wednesday to discuss the launch.
Many nuclear experts say the North has yet to prove it has mastered all technical hurdles, including the ability to deliver a heavy nuclear warhead reliably atop an ICBM, but it was likely that it soon would.
“We don’t have to like it, but we’re going to have to learn to live with North Korea’s ability to target the United States with nuclear weapons,” said Jeffrey Lewis, head of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of Strategic Studies.
‘THREATEN EVERYWHERE’
U.S., Japanese and South Korean officials all agreed the missile, which landed within Japan’s exclusive economic zone, was likely an ICBM. The test did not pose a threat to the United States, its territories or allies, the Pentagon said.
“It went higher, frankly, than any previous shot they’ve taken, a research and development effort on their part to continue building ballistic missiles that can threaten everywhere in the world, basically,” U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis told reporters at the White House.
Trump spoke by phone with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and South Korean President Moon Jae-In, with all three reaffirming their commitment to combat the North Korean threat.
“It is a situation that we will handle,” Trump told reporters.
Trump, who was briefed on the missile while it was in flight, said it did not change his administration’s approach to North Korea, which has included new curbs to hurt trade between China and North Korea.
Abe and Moon, in a separate telephone call, said they would “no longer tolerate” North Korea’s increasing threats and would tighten sanctions, the South’s presidential office said.
Washington has said repeatedly that all options, including military ones, are on the table in dealing with North Korea while stressing its desire for a peaceful solution.
“Diplomatic options remain viable and open, for now,” U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said. 
Other than enforcing existing U.N. sanctions, “the international community must take additional measures to enhance maritime security, including the right to interdict maritime traffic” travelling to North Korea, Tillerson said in a statement.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres strongly condemned the launch.
“This is a clear violation of Security Council resolutions and shows complete disregard for the united view of the international community,” his spokesman said in a statement.
China, North Korea’s lone major ally, expressed “grave concern” at the test, while calling for all sides to act cautiously.
In Moscow, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov also urged all sides to stay calm, saying this was necessary to avoid a worst-case scenario on the Korean peninsula.
The new Hwasong-15, named after the planet Mars, was a more advanced version of an ICBM tested twice in July, North Korea said. It was designed to carry a “super-large heavy warhead”.
Based on its trajectory and distance, the missile would have a range of more than 13,000 km (8,100 miles) - more than enough to reach Washington D.C. and the rest of the United States, the U.S.-based Union of Concerned Scientists said.
However, it was unclear how heavy a payload the missile was carrying, and it was uncertain if it could carry a large nuclear warhead that far, the nonprofit science advocacy group added.
Minutes after the North fired the missile, South Korea’s military said it conducted a missile-firing test in response.
Moon said the launch had been anticipated. There was no choice but for countries to keep applying pressure, he added.
“The situation could get out of control if North Korea perfects its ICBM technology,” Moon said after a national security council meeting.
“North Korea shouldn’t miscalculate the situation and threaten South Korea with a nuclear weapon, which could elicit a possible pre-emptive strike by the United States.”
The test comes less than three months before South Korea hosts the Winter Olympics at a resort just 80 km (50 miles) from the heavily fortified border with the North.
North Korea has said its weapons programmes are a necessary defence against U.S. plans to invade. The United States, which has 28,500 troops in South Korea as a legacy of the 1950-53 Korean war, denies any such intention.
Last week, North Korea denounced Trump’s decision to relist it as a state sponsor of terrorism, calling it a “serious provocation and violent infringement”.
Trump has traded insults and threats with Kim and warned in September that the United States would have no choice but to “totally destroy” North Korea if forced to defend itself or its allies.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump on Wednesday said additional major sanctions would be imposed on North Korea after Pyongyang said it had tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile and that its nuclear weapons could reach the U.S. mainland.
“Just spoke to President Xi Jinping of China concerning the provocative actions of North Korea. Additional major sanctions will be imposed on North Korea today. This situation will be handled!” Trump wrote in a post on Twitter. He gave no other details about the sanctions.


SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Chinese President Xi Jinping told his U.S. counterpart Donald Trump that it is Beijing’s unswerving goal to maintain peace and stability in Northeast Asia and denuclearise the Korean peninsula, the official Xinhua news agency said on Wednesday.
Xi made the comments in a phone conversation with Trump, who urged the Chinese leader to exert pressure on North Korea after Pyongyang said it successfully tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile.


THE HAGUE (Reuters) - Dutch police have declared the courtroom where a Bosnian Croat war crimes defendant said he drank poison on Wednesday during his appeals verdict a crime scene, the presiding judge said.
Slobodan Praljak, 72, was receiving medical treatment while judge Carmel Agius continued to read the judgement in the final case the United Nations Yugoslav tribunal will hear before it closes next month.


CAIRO (Reuters) - Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi on Wednesday ordered his military command to use all force necessary to secure the Sinai peninsula within the next three months following a militant attack on a mosque that killed more than 300 people.
No group has claimed responsibility for Friday’s attack in which authorities say gunmen carrying an Islamic State flag opened fire after setting off an explosive. It was the worst militant attack in Egypt’s modern history.
Egyptian forces have battled an Islamic State affiliate for several years in North Sinai, where militants have killed hundreds of police and soldiers.
“It is your responsibility to secure and stabilise Sinai within the next three months,” Sisi said addressing his new chief of staff in a speech that gave no details on any operations. “You can use all brute force necessary.”
Islamic State’s Wilayat Sinai branch has claimed some of the most deadly attacks in Egypt. The group was made up in 2014 of former fighters of a local jihadist group and has staged raids on the security forces for more than three years.
Sinai has become one of Islamic State’s last holdouts after military defeats in Iraq and Syria.
Clearing militants from North Sinai, a desert area stretching from the Suez Canal eastwards to the Gaza Strip and Israel, has been a difficult task for Egypt’s army, which is more used to conventional warfare than counter-insurgency.
The military has carried out air strikes and bulldozed homes to clear an area near the Gaza border to destroy tunnels. Some tribal leaders say the campaign alienates local communities and has in the past fuelled sympathy for militants.
The Arab League plans to hold an emergency meeting on Dec. 5 to discuss the attack, MENA state news agency said on Wednesday.
Tribal leaders in the Sinai, some of whom cooperate with the military to provide intelligence, say militants are as few as 800. Most are local Egyptians but there are also some Palestinians, they say.
Egypt hopes a recent agreement it helped broker between Palestine rivals factions Hamas and Fatah to allow a unity government to control the Gaza border will help stem arms smuggling by tightening control on the crossing and tunnels into Egyptian territory.
Friday’s attack was a shift for Sinai militants who have mostly focussed on targeting police and soldiers on the peninsula. But since December 2016 they have begun hitting Coptic Christian churches and pilgrims on the mainland.


BERLIN (Reuters) - A German court ruled on Wednesday that a 96-year-old German known as the “bookkeeper of Auschwitz” was fit to go to prison, rejecting his plea for the sentence to be suspended.
Oskar Groening, who is physically frail, was sentenced to four years in prison in 2015 for his role in the murder of 300,000 people at the Nazi death camp Auschwitz.
However, he had not started serving his sentence due to a legal argument about his health.
Prosecutors said in August that a medical examination showed Groening was fit to start serving his prison sentence, though Groening’s lawyer disputed that.
On Wednesday a court in the northern German town of Celle said: “The higher regional court thinks, based on expert opinion, that the convicted man is able to serve his term despite his advanced age.”
It said enforcing Groening’s sentence would not breach his fundamental rights and added that special needs related to his age could be catered for in prison.
In a 2015 court battle seen as one of the last major Holocaust trials, prosecutors said although Groening did not kill anyone himself while working at Auschwitz, in Nazi-occupied Poland, he helped support the regime responsible for mass murder by sorting bank notes seized from trainloads of arriving Jews.
Groening, who admitted he was morally guilty, said he was an enthusiastic Nazi when he was sent to work at Auschwitz in 1942, at the age of 21.
Some 6 million Jews were murdered during the Holocaust carried out under Adolf Hitler.


HELSINKI (Reuters) - Joining NATO would improve Finland’s security but is unlikely to happen any time soon because of a lack of wider support, Finance Minister Petteri Orpo said on Wednesday.
His National Coalition Party, part of a three-party ruling coalition, had a clear position that “NATO membership would strengthen Finland’s security, and Finland should be part of all western institutions,” Orpo told Reuters.
Finland is one of six members of the European Union that have not also joined the Western military alliance.
It has forged closer ties with NATO in recent years over heightened security concerns in the Baltic Sea region, but has stayed out of the alliance in line with a tradition of avoiding confrontation with Russia, with which it shares an 833-mile (1,340 km) border and a difficult history.
“This government will not seek membership, and we are committed to that... When the next government will be formed, this issue will likely be considered again, taking into account the situation in the country and the security environment.”
A poll released by the Defence Ministry on Tuesday showed only 22 percent of Finns support NATO membership while 62 percent opposed it.
“Because a large majority of parliamentary parties, as well as of the citizens, do not support seeking a membership, the issue is not that topical.”
Orpo’s NCP (National Coalition Party) leads opinion polls with support of around 21 percent. The next general elections will be held in 2019.  President Sauli Niinisto said last month that any move to join NATO would need public approval via a referendum.


HARARE (Reuters) - A Zimbabwean court found a pastor not guilty on Wednesday of attempting to subvert the government in a case seen as a barometer of judicial independence under new President Emmerson Mnangagwa.
Evan Mawarire was a strident critic of former President Robert Mugabe who resigned last week after 37 years in power week under pressure from the army and ruling ZANU-PF party.
Mawarire’s #ThisFlag movement last year organised the biggest protests in a decade against Mugabe over a deteriorating economy, cash shortages and accusations of government corruption.
He was arrested in September and faced up to 20 years in jail if convicted.
Mugabe’s critics say he used the courts as a tool of repression. They want to see if Mnangagwa’s government breaks with the past, particularly given that he served in Mugabe’s administration since independence from Britain in 1980.
Amnesty International said in a statement they hoped that the ruling represents a new beginning for the country.
Mawarire said he would keep up the pressure.
“If they (the new government) do to us what Robert Mugabe’s government did to us, we will do the same thing to them that we have done to Robert Mugabe,” Mawarire told reporters in court room soon after High Court Judge Priscilla Chigumba’s judgement.
“This could be evidence of a freer Zimbabwe but this case had no legs to stand on. I think a lot more needs to be seen to determine whether this is a free judiciary going forward,” he said.
Chigumba said state prosecutors failed to show evidence that Mawarire’s actions were a criminal offence. She also found him not guilty of inciting people to commit public violence.
“He urged passive resistance, he urged prayers for peace. How can prayers for peace be considered an unconstitutional means of removing a constitutional government?” said Chigumba.
There was a sigh of relief from the handful of people in court when the ruling was made.
Mnangagwa must address a crisis facing Zimbabwe’s economy that includes balance of payments problems and rampant inflation and steer the country towards an election next year.
Britain could take steps to stabilise Zimbabwe’s currency system and extend a bridging loan to help it clear World Bank and African Development Bank arrears, but such support depends on “democratic progress”, Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said.
“Those are indeed the things that we would try to do to help Zimbabwe forward, but we’ve got to see how the democratic process unfolds,” he said on Wednesday on the sidelines of an African Union-EU summit in Abidjan.


DUBLIN (Reuters) - Progress is being made in talks between Britain and the EU on how to avoid setting up a physical infrastructure on Northern Ireland’s border after the United Kingdom leaves the EU in 2019, Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar said on Wednesday.
“I think it is fair to say that progress is being made but not that is sufficient at this stage,” Varadkar told parliament.
“We are not at a decision point at the moment. Things are changing on a daily basis and are rapidly evolving,” he said.
The EU has named the border as one of three issues on which “sufficient progress” must be made in order to allow progress to talks on a future trade agreement with Britain, crucial for British businesses.


BRUSSELS (Reuters) - European Union Commissioner Phil Hogan said on Wednesday he expected “movement” from Britain in the next few days on how to avoid setting up a physical border between Northern Ireland and Ireland after the United Kingdom leaves the EU in 2019.
Speaking at a news conference, Hogan, an Irishman, said Britain has already moved in the last 24 hours on the financial settlement of the divorce between Britain and the EU ahead of a key European leaders’ summit on Dec 14-15.
“In the same way .. I expect we will see movement in this regard in the next few days as well,” Hogan said.
“And hopefully we will, because nobody wants to see a situation where we have to again, in December, declare insufficient progress in order to allow the next phase,” he said.
The EU summit in mid-December is to establish if “sufficient progress” has been made on divorce talks in three areas - the financial settlement, the Ireland/Northern Ireland border and citizens’ rights. Such progress would allow the start of talks on a future trade agreement with Britain, crucial for British businesses.
“While we all want to see a soft Brexit in the context of a frictionless trading arrangement and frictionless freedom of movement of people on the border between northern and southern Ireland, we don’t hear much detail in terms of the how, in relation to how that’s going to be achieved by the United Kingdom at this stage,” Hogan said.
“I‘m sure our friends in the United Kingdom are quite concerned about that and they understand what they have to do.”


MOSCOW (Reuters) - The latest test of a new North Korean intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) is a provocative act, Russia said on Wednesday, calling on all sides involved to stay calm to avoid a clash.
North Korea said it successfully tested a powerful new ICBM on Wednesday that put the entire U.S. mainland within range of its nuclear weapons. The latest test was the highest and longest any North Korean missile had flown, landing in the sea near Japan.
“Certainly, this new missile launch is a provocative act, which provokes further growth in tension and which moves us further away from the point where a settlement of the crisis can begin,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on a conference call with reporters.
North Korea’s first missile test since mid-September came a week after U.S. President Donald Trump put North Korea back on a U.S. list of countries it says support terrorism, allowing it to impose more sanctions.
Washington has said repeatedly that all options, including military ones, are on the table in dealing with North Korea while stressing its desire for a peaceful solution.
“Diplomatic options remain viable and open, for now,” U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said.
While condemning the latest test, the Kremlin’s Peskov said: “We hope that all the sides involved are able to preserve calm, which is so necessary to avoid the situation on the Korean peninsula sliding towards a worst-case scenario.”
Russia and China have proposed a roadmap for defusing the crisis in the region.
On Wednesday, Russia’s foreign ministry repeated its offer to use the plan, calling on North Korea to stop its missile and nuclear tests, while urging the United States and South Korea to abstain from their “unprecedentedly large-scale, unscheduled military air exercises announced to be held in early December”.
Asked if the Kremlin believed that the proposed roadmap was being considered by the North Korean leadership, Peskov said: “Let’s put it this way: there are no grounds for substantial optimism.”


SEOUL (Reuters) - North Korea said a new intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) it test-fired on Wednesday was launched from a newly developed vehicle and that the its warhead could withstand the pressure of re-entering the earth’s atmosphere.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un personally guided the missile test and said the new launcher was “impeccable”, state media said. He described the new vehicle as a “breakthrough”.
Observers and analysts have cast doubt on North Korea’s ability to master the technology needed to design a warhead capable of withstanding the enormous pressure of re-entry into the earth’s atmosphere and suggested the isolated country may still be years away from developing a credible delivery vehicle for a nuclear weapon.
But Wednesday’s launch re-confirmed “the safety of a warhead in the atmospheric re-entry environment,” state media said, without elaborating.


THE HAGUE (Reuters) - Appeals judges at the Yugoslav war crimes tribunal upheld on Wednesday the convictions of six Bosnian Croats found guilty of war crimes and crimes against humanity during the 1990s, in the court’s last verdict before it closes next month.
The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), established by the United Nations in 1993, is due to close when its mandate expires at the end of the year.
The six former high-level politicians and defence officials were convicted in 2013 of participating in an “ethnic cleansing” campaign against Bosnian Muslims.
They include Jadranko Prlic, a former defence minister, whose 25–year jail sentence was upheld on Wednesday.
He had been found guilty of being part of a criminal enterprise by the wartime Croatian government of late President Franjo Tudjman, to create an ethnically pure state.
Zagreb, which maintained it had ‘clean hands’ in the bloody 1992-95 war in Bosnia, had wanted that finding overturned.
However the appeals chamber concluded that it was not shown that the earlier judges had “misinterpreted relevant evidence” of Tudjman and Zagreb’s confirmed Croatia’s role in the Bosnian conflict.
Several convictions for specific crimes for Prlic and the five others were reversed in the appeal, but president Judge Carmel Agius said “all six remain convicted of numerous and very serious crimes.”


SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australia’s upper house Senate on Wednesday passed a measure to legalise same-sex marriage, perhaps as soon as next week, after lawmakers dismissed a conservative push to allow religious objectors to refuse service to same-sex couples.
Australians overwhelmingly endorsed legalising same-sex marriage in a postal survey run by the national statistics agency and the bill easily passed the Senate by 43 votes to 12.
Conservative lawmakers had pressed for broad protections for religious objectors, among them florists, bakers and musicians, to refuse service to same-sex couples.
But amendments for lay celebrants to refuse to solemnise same-sex marriages and permitting caterers opposed to the unions to refuse service at wedding receptions were either defeated or abandoned during two days of debate in the senate, where same-sex marriage supporters are in the majority.
“The Australian people voted to lessen discrimination, not to extend it and we, the senate, have respected that vote by rejecting amendments which sought to extend discrimination, or derail marriage equality,” Labor Senator Penny Wong, who voted down all the amendments, told Parliament.
The bill moves to the lower house next week, where conservative lawmakers hope for a renewed push to add measures exempting objectors to same-sex marriage from existing laws against discrimination.
“I do not think we have made these changes in a way which advances rights fully,” said centre-right National Party Senator Matt Canavan.
Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull’s Liberal-National coalition government and the main opposition Labor Party have said they wanted to pass the law through parliament by Dec. 7.
If the legislation passes as expected, Australia will become the 26th nation to legalise same-sex marriage, a watershed for a country where some states held homosexual activity illegal until 1997.


ADEN (Reuters) - Assailants detonated a car bomb outside the Yemeni Finance Ministry offices in the southern city of Aden on Wednesday, killing at least two people, hospital officials and residents said.
They said the force of the blast shook the Khor Maksar area of Aden, the temporary capital of the internationally recognised government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi, and causing severe damage to the six-storey building. The force of the blast also shattered windows of adjacent houses, they said.
Ambulances were seen racing to the scene, as sounds of gunfire were heard in the area, they said.
No one has claimed responsibility for the explosion.
An official at the city’s main government-run Jumhouriya hospital said that two people have arrived dead to the hospital, while three others were in critical condition.
He said that medics have said they believe that more casualties were at the scene of the blast, but no one could reach them due to an exchange of gunfire that was taking place in the area.


CARACAS (Reuters) - Venezuela “systematically” abused anti-government protesters this year, two rights groups said on Wednesday, including through beatings, firing tear gas canisters in closed areas and forcing detainees to eat food tainted with excrement.
Unpopular leftist President Nicolas Maduro faced four months of near-daily protests asking for early elections, humanitarian aid to combat food and medicine shortages, respect for the opposition-led congress, and freedom for jailed activists.
Demonstrators say heavy-handed National Guard soldiers clamped down on their right to protest, while Maduro says his administration faced a U.S.-backed “armed insurgency.”
More than 120 people died in the unrest, with victims including demonstrators, government supporters, security officials, and bystanders.
In a joint report, New York-based Human Rights Watch and Venezuela-based Penal Forum documented 88 cases between April and September, from excessive use of force during marches to protest against arbitrary detentions. Around 5,400 people were detained, with at least 757 prosecuted in military courts, the report said.
“The widespread vicious abuses against government opponents in Venezuela, including egregious cases of torture, and the absolute impunity for the attackers suggests government responsibility at the highest levels,” said Chilean lawyer Jose Miguel Vivanco, Americas director at Human Rights Watch.
Venezuela’s Information Ministry did not respond to a request for comment.
In one case cited, intelligence agents allegedly hanged a 34-year-old government critic from the ceiling and gave him electric shocks as they interrogated him. The man, whose name was not revealed, was ultimately released and left Venezuela.
In another case, a 32-year-old detained during a protest in Carabobo state was allegedly beaten for hours by National Guard soldiers who also threatened to rape his daughter. He said officials also fired tear gas into his cell.
Others interviewed recounted being handcuffed to a metal bench, hit with sticks, and witnessing a man being raped with a broomstick. At least 15 detainees in Carabobo said officials forced them to eat human excrement mixed in with uncooked pasta.
The government failed to acknowledge such violations, the report said, adding that instead officials “often downplayed the abuses or issued implausible, blanket denials.”
Maduro’s government says Human Rights Watch is in league with a Washington-funded conspiracy to sabotage socialism in Latin America. Rights activists are in league with the opposition and compliant foreign media, officials say, and downplay opposition violence, including setting a man on fire during a demonstration and targeting police with explosives.
The two rights groups said there were cases of protesters hurling rocks and Molotov cocktails at security forces, but that abuses by authorities went far beyond attempts to quell unrest.


BEIJING (Reuters) - China expressed “grave concern” on Wednesday after North Korea fired what appeared to be an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) that landed close to Japan.
China hopes all parties act cautiously to preserve peace and stability, foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a regular news briefing.


PARIS (Reuters) - A year ago, France’s conservatives appeared headed for the presidency. Now the French right is more fractured than at almost any point in the modern-day Fifth Republic, leaving one clear winner: President Emmanuel Macron, a centrist.
Over the weekend, a group of Macron-friendly lawmakers cemented their split from the centre-right The Republicans party, forming a new party, Agir (Act). In a further blow to The Republicans, three other party heavyweights defected to Macron’s Republic on the Move party.
This comes at a time the far-right National Front party is riven by internal divisions and fighting a new rival movement set up by one of its own.
In two weeks, The Republicans will elect a new party chief. The task of whoever wins will be to heal divisions and rebuild a party blown apart by Macron’s election triumph.
“The Right is in the process of breaking apart ... if this goes on we will be in opposition for 20 years,” Mael de Calan, a rising star in The Republicans and candidate for party leader, told television channel France 2.
De Calan hit out at those deserting the party. He also said the frontrunner in the party leadership race, 42-year-old Laurent Wauquiez, was advocating policies that would push The Republicans too far to the right -- an outcome which could prompt others to leave.
Macron, 39, dynamited France’s traditional political landscape in the summer, winning the presidency without ever having held office before and securing a commanding majority in parliament with a party just over a year old.
Macron poached cabinet ministers from both the Socialist Party and The Republicans, leaving both scrambling for an answer to the former investment banker’s stunning rise to power. The Socialists of former President Francois Hollande were particularly hurt.
“Macron destroyed the Left with the presidential election and now the target is the Right,” said Frederic Dabi of pollster Ifop.
Both far-left ‘France Unbowed’ leader Jean-Luc Melenchon and far-right National Front chief Marine Le Pen are viewed as stronger opponents to Macron, an Odoxa poll showed at the weekend.
Equally worrying to Wauquiez should he become leader of The Republicans is that another survey on Tuesday showed one in two voters were indifferent to him.
Wauquiez, who calls those quitting the party “traitors”,  told Reuters last week that he wanted to unite the party and that France needed his hardline proposals on immigration, security and Europe.
“We won’t bring people together by being tepid,” he said.
His platform has, however, left moderate party stalwarts such as Valerie Pecresse, leader of the wider Paris region, and former prime minister Alain Juppe, being coy about their future.
“The Republicans’ problem is that they are not showing the French an image of unity or a (future) leader that embodies a solid enough opposition,” said Odoxa’s president Gael Sliman, adding that Wauquiez’s hard-right line was not popular enough.
Marine Le Pen, gloating, said on Tuesday that The Republicans faced a “catastrophic” situation. “They imploded in two camps,” she told BFM TV.
But she too presides over a deeply divided party. One of its eight lawmakers on Monday defected to a splinter party established by her former deputy in September.


JAKARTA (Reuters) - A tropical cyclone killed 19 people on the Indonesian island of Java, officials said on Wednesday, with most of the victims caught under a landslide.
Video footage showed rivers overflowing and roads and villages submerged in brown water after the storm struck on Tuesday.
“Nineteen people have died, thousands of homes have been flooded and other damage has been caused,” Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, spokesman for the Disaster Mitigation Agency, said on Twitter.
Two nearby airports were briefly closed but had since reopened. Flights around Indonesia have been disrupted due to the eruption of a volcano on the neighboring holiday island of Bali to the east.


BEIJING (Reuters) - China’s top steel producing city of Tangshan has lifted emergency measures to tackle a recent three-day bout of heavy air pollution, the city government said in a statement on Wednesday.
The measures, classified as Level 2 emergency response measures, were implemented on the afternoon of Nov. 25 and halted on Nov. 28 at 10 a.m., it said.
The steps taken included restricting the production of sintering machines at steel mills, halting the production of a range of building materials such as cement and ceramics and a ban on the mixing of concrete and spraying paint outdoors.
In addition, no natural gas furnaces or coal boilers were allowed to be used by heavy industry.
The announcement added that the city would continue to enforce measures under Beijing’s pollution campaign that started on Nov. 15 and will last until March 15.
Tangshan in northern Hebei province is one of the 28 northern cities ordered by Beijing in August to draw up plans to thin traffic and reduce industrial activity to reduce pollution.
The city produces nearly 100 million tonnes of crude steel a year, more than the United States, and is routinely listed among China’s 10 smoggiest cities.
The city government said last month it would halve its iron production capacity from mid-November until mid-March to fight the winter smog.
(Graphic for Map showing Tangshan City, click reut.rs/2A2Zc7M)


SYDNEY (Reuters) - Victoria on Wednesday became the first state in Australia to allow terminally ill patients to end their life as its legislature passed a euthanasia law that other states are expected to use as a template.
The legislation, to come into effect in June 2019, will make it legal for any resident of the southeastern state with a terminal illness and with less than six months to live to request a lethal dose of medication.
Sufferers of some conditions, such as motor neurone disease and multiple sclerosis, can request a lethal dose even if they have been given up to a year to live.
“The implementation of the bill ... will give people hope and compassion, and that a good death will in fact be possible for people who are currently enduring difficult, difficult ends of life,” Victoria’s Health Minister Jill Hennessy said outside the state legislature in Melbourne after the lower house approved a law that had already cleared the upper house.
Many countries have legalised euthanasia, including Canada, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and some states in the United States, although the Australian government opposes it.
The Australian Medical Association (AMA) opposes physician-assisted suicide, arguing that better palliative care can address pain and other symptoms of distress.
The Victorian legislation sparked heated parliamentary exchanges, including a marathon 27-hour state parliament debate earlier in November.
The remote Northern Territory, which does not hold Australian statehood, became the first jurisdiction in the world to legalise euthanasia in 1995, but the laws were overturned by the federal government in 1997.


CAIRO (Reuters) - Militant group Islamic State claimed responsibility for a car bomb attack outside the offices of the Yemeni finance ministry in the southern port city of Aden, the group’s news agency Amaq said on Wednesday.
Hospital officials said at least two people were killed in the explosion.


TEGUCIGALPA (Reuters) - The result of Honduras’ presidential election remained in limbo on Tuesday, with a gregarious TV host’s surprise lead narrowing sharply, prompting him to call on supporters to take to the streets of the capital to defend the vote.
President Juan Orlando Hernandez, who won U.S. praise for helping tackle the flow of migrants and deporting drug cartel leaders, was favoured to win before Sunday’s vote in the poor Central American nation with one of the world’s highest murder rates.
But a delayed, partial count on Monday morning pointed toward an unexpected victory for TV entertainer Salvador Nasralla, 64. Inexplicably, election authorities then stopped giving results for more than 24 hours.
When, under mounting criticism from international election monitors over a lack of transparency, the electoral tribunal began updating its website again, the tendency rapidly began to change.
In a television interview on Tuesday evening, an angry Nasralla said the election was being stolen from him and asked his supporters to flock to the capital, Tegucigalpa, to protest.
“We’ve already won the election,” he said. “I‘m not going to tolerate this, and as there are no reliable institutions in Honduras to defend us, tomorrow the Honduran people need to defend the vote on the streets.”
The Electoral Observation Mission of the Organization of American States (EOM/OAS) in Honduras urged people to remain calm and wait for official results, which it said should be delivered as quickly and transparently as possible.
“The credibility of the electoral authorities and the legitimacy of the future president depend on this,” it said in a statement.
On Tuesday evening, Nasralla’s original five-point lead had thinned to under 2 percentage points, with nearly 71 percent of ballots counted, according to the election tribunal.
Nasralla said in a later television interview that the election tribunal was only counting ballots from regions where Hernandez had won, skewing the results and giving the false sense that the president was heading for victory. He asked the tribunal to include ballots from regions where he was stronger.
A self-described centrist, Nasralla headed a centre-left coalition called the Opposition Alliance Against the Dictatorship, and claimed victory on Monday - as did Hernandez.
Election official Marcos Ramiro Lobo told Reuters on Monday afternoon that Nasralla was leading by a margin of five points, with about 70 percent of ballots counted.
Lobo said Nasralla appeared certain to win, signalling that experts at the electoral body regarded his lead as irreversible.
On Tuesday, Hernandez reiterated that he had won, and refused to concede, telling supporters they should wait for final results.
After Hernandez spoke, thousands of his blue-clad supporters gathered outside the presidential residence to celebrate his supposed victory.
“We won the election with Juan Orlando Hernandez, and we won’t let them remove him from power,” said 35-year-old housewife Maria Aguirre, who hailed from a rough neighbourhood on the outskirts of Tegucigalpa.
The election tribunal’s delay was due to difficult negotiations between Hernandez’s National Party and Nasralla’s alliance, according to two European diplomats who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Behind closed doors, the parties were discussing immunity from prosecution for current officials and how to carve up positions in government, the diplomats said.
In an interview on Tuesday, Nasralla denied he was in talks with the National Party. He vowed to review whether to keep a base stationed with U.S. troops if he wins the election, but also promised to deepen security co-operation.
Hernandez’s National Party appears set to retain control of Congress in the election, giving it the second-most important perch in the country.
The European Union’s chief observer for the election, Marisa Matias, urged election officials to maintain an open channel of communication as they finalised the results.
The electoral body had been so certain Hernandez would win that it showed unprecedented transparency during the contest, one of the diplomats said. That left the body with little room to manoeuvre when Nasralla came from nowhere to take a strong lead.
With a booming voice and finely coiffed hair, Nasralla is one of the country’s best known faces as the host of game shows that feature scantily clad women by his side.
He is backed by former President Manuel Zelaya, who was ousted in 2009 after he proposed a referendum on his re-election. The possible return to a position of influence for one-time leftist Zelaya risks fuelling concern in Washington.
The United States has longstanding military ties to Honduras and few ideological allies among the current crop of Central American presidents.
Hernandez, 49, was credited with lowering the murder rate and boosting the economy, but he was also hurt by accusations of ties to illicit, drug-related financing that he denies.
His bid for a second term, which was made possible by a 2015 Supreme Court decision on term limits, divided opinion in the coffee-exporting nation of 9 million people.


SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff said they presume North Korea fired a Hwasong-14 long-range ballistic missile on Wednesday, the South’s Yonhap News Agency reported.
A military spokesman told Reuters he could not confirm the report.


(Reuters) - Hawaii this week will resume monthly statewide testing of its Cold War-era nuclear attack warning sirens for the first time in about 30 years, in preparation for a potential missile launch from North Korea, emergency management officials said.
Wailing air-raid sirens will be sounded for about 60 seconds from more than 400 locations across the central Pacific islands starting at 11:45 a.m. on Friday, in a test that will be repeated on the first business day of each month thereafter.
A formal announcement and demonstration of the system was planned for Tuesday by Governor David Ige and other officials at the headquarters of the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency.
Monthly tests of the nuclear attack siren are being reintroduced in Hawaii in conjunction with public service announcements urging residents of the islands to “get inside, stay inside and stay tuned” if they should hear the warning.
“Emergency preparedness is knowing what to expect and what to do for all hazards,” state Emergency Management chief Vern Miyagi said in one video message posted online. He did not mention North Korea specifically.
But the nuclear attack sirens, discontinued since the 1980s when the Cold War drew to a close, are being reactivated in light of recent test launches of intercontinental ballistic missiles from North Korea deemed capable of reaching the state, agency spokeswoman Arlina Agbayani told Reuters on Monday.
A single 150-kiloton weapon detonated over Pearl Harbor on the main island of Oahu would be expected to kill 18,000 people outright and leave 50,000 to 120,000 others injured across a blast zone several miles wide, agency spokesman Richard Rapoza said, citing projections based on assessments of North Korea’s nuclear weapons technology.
While casualties on that scale would be unprecedented on U.S. soil, a fact sheet issued by the agency stressed that 90 percent of Hawaii’s 1.4 million-plus residents would survive “the direct effects of such an explosion.”
Oahu, home to a heavy concentration of the U.S. military command structure, as well as the state capital, Honolulu, and about two-thirds of the state’s population, is seen as an especially likely target for potential North Korean nuclear aggression against the United States.
In the event of an actual nuclear missile launch at Hawaii from North Korea, the U.S. Pacific Command would alert state emergency officials to sound the attack sirens, giving island residents just 12 to 15 minutes of warning before impact, according to the state’s fact sheet.
In that case, residents are advised to take cover “in a building or other substantial structure.” Although no designated nuclear shelters exist, staying indoors offers the best chance of limiting exposure to radioactive fallout.
The siren tests are being added to existing monthly tests of Hawaii’s steady-tone siren warnings for hurricanes, tsunamis and other natural disasters. Those alerts also undergo monthly tests on radio, TV and cellphone networks.
When emergency management officials initiated the new warning campaign, “there were concerns we would scare the public,” Miyagi said in a recent presentation. “What we are putting out is information based on the best science that we have on what would happen if that weapon hit Honolulu or the assumed targets.”


OTTAWA (Reuters) - A planned meeting of foreign ministers to discuss the North Korean crisis is not scheduled to take place before the Christmas break in late December, a Canadian official said on Tuesday.
Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland announced Canada would co-host the meeting with the United States on Canadian soil. At least a dozen foreign ministers will be involved, said the official, who asked to remain anonymous given the sensitivity of the situation.
U.S Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, condemning a North Korean missile test earlier in the day, said the meeting would include South Korea, Japan and other affected nations, to discuss “how the global community can counter North Korea’s threat to international peace.”
Freeland had been discussing North Korea with counterparts in recent months, including those from the United States, South Korea, Japan, Australia and China, said the Canadian official.
Canada was a good choice to host a meeting because it was less directly involved in the crisis than the United States, Japan, South Korea or China, said the official.
“There are fewer implications to us convening a constructive conversation,” added the official, saying no decisions on a venue or who would be invited had been made.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. State Department said on Tuesday that a new law allowing Russia’s Justice Ministry to list foreign media outlets as “foreign agents” posed a threat to free press and it urged Moscow not to use the measure to tighten control over the media.
State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said in a statement on Tuesday, “Freedom of expression, including speech and media which a government may find inconvenient, is a universal human rights obligation Russia has pledged to uphold.”
She said Russia’s foreign agents law had been “used to justify a constant stream of raids, harassment, and legal proceedings that effectively obstruct non-governmental organizations from doing their work.”
The law, signed by President Vladimir Putin on Saturday, allows Moscow to force foreign media to brand news they provide to Russians as the work of “foreign agents” and to disclose their funding sources.
The legislation was rushed through Russia’s parliament in two weeks after the United States required Russian state broadcaster RT to register its U.S.-based affiliate company as a “foreign agent.”
Nauert rejected any comparison between the U.S. and Russian laws, saying the American law did not limit publication of information or restrict the organisation’s ability to operate.
The move is part of the fallout from allegations that Russia interfered in last year’s U.S. presidential campaign to try to help Donald Trump win. U.S. intelligence officials have accused the Kremlin of using Russian media to influence U.S. voters. Moscow has denied meddling in the U.S. election.
“Expanding the Foreign Agents Law to include media outlets opens the door to onerous requirements that could further stifle freedom of speech and editorial independence in Russia,” Nauert said.


TOKYO (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe agreed to boost their response to North Korea’s missile programme and urged China to do more, a government spokesman said on Wednesday.
In a phone call the leaders “agreed to strengthen our deterrence capability against the North Korean threat,” Yasutoshi Nishimura, deputy chief cabinet secretary, told reporters after Pyongyang fired what Japan said appeared to be an intercontinental ballistic missile into waters in Japan’s exclusive economic zone.
Trump and Abe also “agreed that China needs to play an increased role” in countering North Korea, Nishimura said.
They did not discuss military options towards North Korea,  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told a separate news conference.
Japan will work closely with the United States and South Korea in response to the missile launch, Suga said.


LONDON (Reuters) - Prime Minister Theresa May will travel to the Middle East this week to lend her support to economic reforms in Saudi Arabia and Jordan, her spokesman said.
Her trip comes as Britain is looking for new relationships around the world, to replace those it will lose after it quits the European Union in a little more than a year.
She will meet Saudi King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, where she will also discuss the crisis in Yemen and the dispute in Qatar. In Jordan, she will meet King Abdullah and Prime Minister Hanu Mulki.
The London Stock Exchange is competing now to host part of Saudi Aramco’s [IPO-ARMO.SE] initial public offering. Britain said this month it would provide $2 billion in credit guarantees to the energy company so it can buy British goods more easily.
On Tuesday, British foreign minister Boris Johnson hosted officials from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Oman and the United States to discuss humanitarian aid in Yemen, where aid agencies have complained about a port blockade.
Aid agencies say it has worsened the crisis in Yemen where war has left an estimated 7 million people facing famine and killed more than 10,000 people.


SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korea’s President Moon Jae-in said on Wednesday he strongly condemns North Korea’s latest ballistic missile launch, noting it had been anticipated and that the government had been preparing for it in advance.
Moon added that there is no choice but for the international community to continue applying pressure and sanctions against North Korea. The president made the comments at a national security meeting held shortly after North Korea launched what appeared to be an intercontinental ballistic missile that landed close to Japan.


PARIS (Reuters) - French President Emmanuel Macron condemned on Tuesday what appeared to be an intercontinental ballistic missile test conducted by North Korea and called for greater pressure on Pyongyang.
“I condemn the new ballistic irresponsible trial of North Korea. It reinforces our determination to increase the pressure on Pyongyang and our solidarity to our partners,” Macron said on Twitter.


BERLIN (Reuters) - China’s growing military strength and a resurgent Russia will pose growing challenges to the trans-Atlantic alliance in coming years, and NATO’s moves to bolster its capabilities could trigger a new Cold War-style arms race, a NATO report said.
The report, completed once every four years, identifies 20 global trends that are likely to affect the alliance through 2035, ranging from artificial intelligence and accelerating technology development to climate change and growing inequality.
General Denis Mercier, NATO Supreme Allied Commander Transformation, told Reuters the report showed a higher risk of major interstate war than in the 2013 report.
“We see a considerable increase in the risk of a major interstate conflict,” Mercier said in an interview on the sidelines of the Berlin Security Conference.
His command will release a companion report that maps out what NATO should do to respond to these trends in the spring, with both documents to inform the 2019 NATO political guidance.
“Having a global awareness is more necessary than before. We have to be ready for any kind of scenario,” Mercier said, noting that globalization meant NATO had to weigh factors outside its region, including military expansion by China and India.
Easy access to technology and the global nature of cyberspace would make it easier for terrorist networks to expand, challenging the current near-monopoly that state actors have on high-tech weapons, the report said.
Environmental factors would also play a bigger role, from higher rates of natural disasters to the increased opening of the Arctic, the report said, as well as a growth in global debt and erosion of trust in financial institutions.
The report said defence spending had begun increasing after Russia’s annexation of the Crimea region of Ukraine in 2014, and projections called for further increases through 2045.
But it warned that the increases “might create a security dilemma and start an arms race, as was the case during the Cold War”.
It said competing budget priorities and fiscal constraints in member states could hamper their ability to meet NATO alliance requirement in the future.
Mercier said NATO was already working to expand its capabilities in the cyber domain, and to ensure cyber protections were baked into every weapons system and network from the outset.
“In NATO, we are under permanent attack in cyber,” he said, noting that the alliance had proven “quite good” at protecting itself thus far, but needed to remain vigilant.


OTTAWA (Reuters) - Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau apologised on Tuesday for a decades-long campaign by previous governments to rid the military and public service of homosexuals, calling the dark chapter in the country’s history a “collective shame.”
From the 1950s to the early 1990s, the Canadian government monitored and interrogated civil servants who were believed to be homosexual or transgender. Thousands in the public service, military and Royal Canadian Mounted Police were fired or intimidated into leaving their jobs.
Speaking in the House of Commons, Trudeau said the thinking that homosexuals would be at increased risk of blackmail by Canada’s adversaries resulted in nothing short of a witch hunt.
“The government of Canada exercised its authority in a cruel and unjust manner,” Trudeau said, to a standing ovation from all parties.
“It is with shame and sorrow and deep regret for the things we have done that I stand here today and say, ‘We were wrong. We apologise. I am sorry. We are sorry,'” he said.
The apology was the latest in a series of statements by the two-year-old Liberal government seeking to make amends for historical wrongs. Trudeau used a speech to the U.N. General Assembly in September to acknowledge Canada has failed its indigenous people.
Trudeau hugged several gay legislators in the House of Commons after giving his speech.
Gay rights group Egale described the apology as hugely significant.
“We have knocked on this door for a very long time asking to come in. Today we came in and we came in strong ... we are OK. It’s OK to be queer in Canada,” the group’s executive director Helen Kennedy told reporters.
Canada has also reached an agreement in principle with those involved in a class action lawsuit related to the government’s persecution of homosexuals, Trudeau said.
Under the agreement, C$110 million ($85.80 million) will be given in compensation to those involved in the lawsuit.
Liberal cabinet minister Scott Brison, who is gay, told reporters he was “deeply saddened by and sorry for the systemic oppression against members of my community.”
Brison added: “I am so proud today of the diversity and inclusion of our public service.”
The government earlier on Tuesday also proposed legislation that will allow the criminal records of those convicted of sexual activity with same-sex partners to be permanently destroyed.


ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey said on Tuesday it could expand its military mission in Syria to two other provinces, potentially bringing its forces into confrontation with U.S.-backed Kurdish fighters that Ankara considers its enemies.
Turkish troops have operated an “observation mission” in rebel-held territory in Syria’s northwestern Idlib province, under a deal with Damascus allies Russia and Iran to help reduce fighting between insurgents and government forces.
“It’s been considered that the observation mission of the Turkish armed forces in the Idlib de-escalation zone is continuing successfully, and such a mission being performed near Western Aleppo and Afrin would provide a real environment of peace and safety,” Turkey’s National Security Council said in a statement.
Ankara, which has long backed rebels fighting to overthrow President Bashar al-Assad, has toned down its demands that Assad leave power. It now says its main concerns in Syria are combating both Islamist militants and Kurdish fighters it considers allies of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) which has fought a decades-long insurgency in southeastern Turkey.
Earlier this month, Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said that Turkey needed to clear the Afrin region of northwest Syria of Kurdish YPG militia fighters as the military operation in Idlib province is largely complete.
The Kurdish YPG is the main element in a U.S.-backed force that Washington has assisted with training, weapons, air support and help from ground advisers in the battle against Islamic State. Washington’s support for the YPG is a bone of contention between the United States and Turkey, which are allies in NATO.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Pentagon said on Tuesday that it had detected a “probable” missile launch from North Korea.
“We detected a probable missile launch from North Korea. We are in the process of assessing the situation and will provide additional details when available,” Pentagon spokesman Colonel Robert Manning told reporters.
He said the probable launch was detected at 1:30 p.m. EST (1830 GMT).


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - North Korea has fired an unidentified ballistic missile, U.S. officials told Reuters on Tuesday on condition of anonymity, without immediately offering further details.
The launch would be North Korea’s first since it fired a missile over Japan in mid-September.


ROME (Reuters) - An Italian judge ruled on Tuesday that a convicted mobster and son of late boss Salvatore “Toto” Riina be detained for a year in a secure labour unit, a judicial source said, less than two weeks after his father died, leaving the Sicilian mafia’s future uncertain.
Convicted of mafia membership in 2004 and sentenced to nearly nine years in prison before being released on parole, Giuseppe Salvatore Riina, 40, has been under police surveillance in the northern town of Padua.
Criminals who are deemed dangerous to society or likely to re-offend can be sent to a secure unit, known as a “workhouse” in Italy, with the aim of rehabilitating them into society through manual labour.
In Riina’s case, investigators in Rome found that he had contact with drug dealers, prompting a prosecutor in Padua to ask for him to be held under tighter security, the source said.
Riina declined to comment through his lawyer.
A decision has not yet been taken on which of Italy’s five workhouses Riina will be sent to, the source said. The judge handed down a one-year term, rather than the three years the Padua prosecutor had requested.
On state television last year, Riina said he had been happy during his childhood, when his fugitive father lived under an assumed name.
Toto Riina died on Nov. 17 in a hospital in Parma, the Italian city where he had been serving 26 life sentences for murders committed between 1969 and 1992.
Nicknamed the “boss of bosses”, Toto Riina changed the structure of the Sicilian mafia, concentrating power in his own hands. His savagery prompted hundreds of mobsters to testify against him, allowing magistrates to uncover the secrets of Cosa Nostra and prosecute its leaders.


ABIDJAN (Reuters) - European leaders under pressure from a far-right revival at home hope to avoid a difficult debate about immigration when they meet their African counterparts in Ivory Coast from Wednesday.
Reports this month of abuses against African migrants in Libya have sparked anger across the continent however, threatening to drive migration to the top of the summit agenda and shine a spotlight on an issue fraught with political risk.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron, who head the Franco-German axis at the heart of the European Union, will have its next major political test in mind when they sit down with African Union heads of state.
Italy, on the frontline of the campaign to slow illegal migration to Europe, holds elections early next year and the populist 5-Star Movement is leading opinion polls. The anti-immigrant, euroskeptic Northern League is also gaining support.
“We all have our own interests in not turning this into a migration conference,” one EU official said ahead of the meeting to be held in Ivory Coast’s commercial capital Abidjan.
The summit is meant to focus on development, long the cornerstone of EU policy in Africa and tangentially related to migration. The theme of investing in youth, though, is a nod to the rampant unemployment and poverty that drives many young Africans to leave home in search of a better life.
But it now looks increasingly unlikely the EU leaders can avoid hard questions from their African counterparts.
Soon after CNN aired grainy images from Libya this month appearing to show migrants being sold as slaves, African governments began recalling diplomats from Tripoli.
Protests erupted in France, Senegal and Benin. Ivory Coast President Alassane Ouattara called for Libyan slave traders to be prosecuted by the International Criminal Court.
Libyan authorities have promised to investigate the slavery allegations. But the European Union too has been the target of anger and frustration.
“They’re the ones who blocked the way and left us in the hands of these Libyans,” said Cherifou Sahindou, sitting at a make-shift tea stand by a muddy, rubbish-strewn track near a mosque in Abidjan’s Yopougon neighbourhood.
Sahindou and some of the other men around the tea stand said they made it to Libya, but no further. All had heard about the slave markets and all knew someone who had “stayed in the water” - the local euphemism for death on the migrant trail.
Like many African leaders, Ouattara has called for Europe to broaden the legal avenues for migration from the continent using mechanisms such as student and temporary work visas.
“Europe and Europeans ... should not be afraid, because Africa and the African youth can bring a lot to Europe,” he said in an interview with the France 24 news channel this week.
But in the current political climate any proposal for more Africans to enter Europe is a non-starter for many EU leaders.
Merkel herself is the most high-profile victim of an anti-immigration backlash. At the peak of the migrant influx into Europe in 2015 she declared an open door policy for refugees and asylum seekers, allowing in more than a million migrants.
The anti-immigrant far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party campaigned hard against the policy and won some 13 percent of the vote in a September election - complicating Merkel’s efforts to form a coalition government and weakening her position as the leading EU advocate within Europe.
In an indication of how heated things have become, the mayor of a small town in Germany, who won an award from Merkel for his liberal migrant policies, was stabbed in the neck on Monday in an attack believed to be politically motivated.
Other European leaders firmly behind the 28-member bloc are also wary of falling foul to such an explosive issue.
“If you say, ‘I’ve got a right to total access without conditions’ ... I can’t explain that to my middle class, who’ve worked, who pay their taxes,” Macron said during a rowdy exchange with students in Burkina Faso on Tuesday.
“What do I tell them?”
‘TOO MANY DEATHS’
It is those kinds of political calculations that are hindering much-needed policy solutions, said William Swing, head of the International Organization for Migration.
“The heart of the problem is the very toxic atmosphere that’s been fairly widespread for some years now ... That’s not just in Europe,” he told Reuters.
“The drivers (of migration) are there and they’re not going away. So clearly our policies need to change.”
European delegates at the summit, however, are expected to pledge aid, repeating often voiced calls for a “Marshall Plan” for Africa that would create jobs and lift incomes to give would-be migrants a reason to stay at home.
The African security sectors charged with clamping down on migrant flows will also get their share of European money.
EU support for the Libyan authorities, including Italian assistance for its coastguard, has helped halve the number of migrants arriving in Europe via the Mediterranean this year.
Though lauded in Italy, the programme, which has led to massive detention centres being created in Libya to hold intercepted migrants, was denounced by the United Nation’s human rights chief Zeid Ra‘ad Al Hussein.
Abdoulaye Dosso, another man at the tea stand in Yopougon, said he crossed the Sahara desert, played dead to survive as rebels shot other migrants, and then spent weeks in one such camp awaiting repatriation to Ivory Coast.
“There have been too many deaths,” he said. “There must be a change.”
(This story has been refiled to fix typo in French president’s name in paragraph 3.)


HONG KONG (Reuters) - A large oval-shaped diamond known as the “Pink Promise” was sold to an anonymous buyer for $32 million (£24 million) in Hong Kong on Tuesday, just short of shattering a world auction record.
The 14.93-carat vivid pink diamond went for a final price of HK$249,850,000, which comes to $2.14 million per carat, to an  international private collector at Christie’s autumn sale.
The price fell short of breaking the previous world auction record for the most expensive pink diamond per carat, which was set in 2009 when a cushion-shaped fancy vivid pink diamond went under the hammer for $2.155 million per carat.
“The colour of the stone was at the very top end of the pink diamonds, for pink. The size was very important, almost 15 carat, so you have an important size, a top colour, absolutely clean stone and beautifully cut. So all of those elements together factored into the perfect masterpiece helped us achieve this price,” said Rahul Kadakia, Christie’s International Head of Jewelry.
The world record price paid per carat is $4.03 million for the Blue Moon of Josephine, a 12.03-carat, cushion-shaped fancy vivid blue diamond that Hong Kong tycoon Joseph Lau bought in a 2015 Sotheby’s auction, according to the Guinness World Records. Lau named the $48.5 million diamond after his daughter.


DUBLIN (Reuters) - Ireland’s scandal-hit deputy prime minister resigned on Tuesday, averting a government collapse and potential snap election that had threatened to complicate Brexit talks next month between Britain and the European Union.
Opposition parties had demanded Frances Fitzgerald step down after the release of fresh documents about her disputed handling of a police whistleblower who alleged corruption in the force.
Fianna Fail, the main opposition party, which props up Fine Gael Prime Minister Leo Varadkar’s minority government, said her resignation meant a December election would be avoided. It had warned it might force a snap poll if Fitzgerald refused to quit.
“Today I made the decision to tender my resignation to the Taoiseach (prime minister), stepping down with immediate effect,” Fitzgerald said in a statement.
“I have decided on this occasion to put the national interest ahead of my own personal reputation. I believe it is necessary to take this decision to avoid an unwelcome and potentially destabilising general election at this historically critical time.”
Ireland’s political crisis exploded in the run-up to a key Brexit summit next month at which Varadkar is set to play a major role. He must tell fellow EU leaders whether he believes sufficient progress has been made on the future of the border between Ireland and the British province of Northern Ireland.
The border -- the only land frontier between Britain and the EU -- is one of three issues Brussels wants broadly resolved before it decides whether to move talks on Britain’s divorce from the EU onto a second phase about trade, as Britain wants.
While Varadkar has likely avoided the prospect of having to travel to Brussels in a caretaker capacity, his handling of the crisis has badly damaged him, his governing Fine Gael party and relations with its Fianna Fail opponents.
“LOST THE DRESSING ROOM”
While Fitzgerald’s ministerial colleagues continued to back her in public ahead of the cabinet meeting at which she stood down, Tuesday’s newspaper front pages were full of quotes from unnamed Fine Gael lawmakers and ministers saying she had to go.
Some Fine Gael members who spoke to Reuters on condition of anonymity said they were furious with Varadkar and Fitzgerald’s handling of the crisis, having been forced to spend four days strongly defending the deputy prime minister since it broke.
Members of the opposition Labour and Sinn Fein parties and political analysts said as Fitzgerald resigned that an election was still likely to follow in the next three or four months.
“Whatever happens today, the timeline of this administration is very much foreshortened by the events of the last two weeks,” Labour leader Brendan Howlin told national broadcaster RTE.
“I think right now he (Varadkar) has probably lost the dressing room, you can see that in today’s newspapers, and he’s done some damage to himself and the stability of the government too,” added Howlin, a former cabinet colleague of Varadkar.
The crisis was the first major test of the 38-year-old prime minister who succeeded Enda Kenny in June. With a reputation as a straight-talker, he has been likened to French President Emmanuel Macron and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau by colleagues excited at the prospect of a generational shift.
While an opinion poll on Saturday gave Fine Gael a one-point lead over Fianna Fail, bookmaker Paddy Power said on Tuesday that it made Fianna Fail slight favourites to win the most seats at the next election.
The two centre-right parties are fierce rivals but disagree little on policy. A three-year confidence and supply agreement between them is due to run until this time next year.
“I think there is damage (but) nobody is enhanced by this debacle. I don’t think either party comes out of it particularly well,” said Theresa Reidy, a politics lecturer at University College Cork, referring to Fine Gael and Fianna Fail.
“But Fine Gael are in government so they are more damaged by it.”


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. government experts think North Korea could conduct a new missile test within days, in what would be its first launch since it fired a missile over Japan in mid-September, two  authoritative U.S. government sources said on Tuesday.
One of the sources, who did not want to be identified, said the United States had evidence that Japanese reports about the monitoring of signals suggesting North Korea was preparing a new missile test were accurate.
Both sources said U.S. government experts believed a new test could occur “within days.”
A Japanese government source said earlier on Tuesday that Japan had detected radio signals suggesting North Korea may be preparing another ballistic missile launch, although such signals were not unusual and satellite images did not show fresh activity.
South Korea’s Yonhap news agency, citing a South Korean government source, also reported that intelligence officials of the United States, South Korea and Japan had recently detected signs of a possible missile launch and have been on higher alert.
The U.S. officials who spoke to Reuters declined to say what type of missile they think North Korea might test, but noted that Pyongyang had been working to develop nuclear-tipped missiles capable of hitting the United States and had already tested inter-continental ballistic missiles.
Other U.S. intelligence officials have noted that North Korea has previously sent deliberately misleading signs of preparations for missile and nuclear tests. These have been in part to mask real preparations, and in part to test U.S. and allied intelligence on its activities.
After firing missiles at a rate of about two or three a month since April, North Korea paused its missile launches in late September, after it fired a missile that passed over Japan’s northern Hokkaido island on Sept. 15.
Last week, North Korea denounced U.S. President Donald Trump’s decision to relist it as a state sponsor of terrorism, calling it a “serious provocation and violent infringement.”
The designation allows the United States to impose more sanctions, though some experts said it risked inflaming tensions.
Trump has traded insults and threats with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and warned in his maiden speech to the United Nations in September that the United States would have no choice but to “totally destroy” North Korea if forced to defend itself or its allies.
Washington has said repeatedly that all options are on the table in dealing with North Korea, including military ones, but that it prefers a peaceful solution by Pyongyang agreeing to give up its nuclear and missile programs.
To this end, Trump has pursued a policy of encouraging countries around the world, including North Korea’s main ally and neighbour, China, to step up sanctions on Pyongyang to persuade it to give up its weapons programs.
North Korea has given no indication it is willing to re-enter dialogue on those terms.
South Korean Unification Minister Chow Myoung-gyon told reporters on Tuesday there had been “noteworthy” movements from the North since its last missile launch, including engine tests, but there was no hard evidence of another nuclear or missile test.
“North Korea hasn’t been engaging in new nuclear or missile tests but recently we’ve seen them persistently testing engines and carrying out fuel tests,” he said. “But we need some more time to see whether these are directly related to missile and nuclear tests.”
Cho said North Korea may announce the completion of its nuclear programme within a year, as it is moving more quickly than expected in developing its arsenal.
North Korea defends its weapons programs as a necessary defence against U.S. plans to invade. The United States, which has 28,500 troops in South Korea as a legacy of the 1950-53 Korean war, denies any such intention.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Chancellor Angela Merkel piled pressure on Monday on the Social Democrats (SPD) to rejoin a “grand coalition” with her conservatives, arguing that the European Union and the wider world urgently needed a stable German government in place.
More than two months after its Sept. 24 national election, Europe’s economic and political powerhouse is still without a government and officials say coalition talks may now properly begin only in the new year.
“There are European elections in 2019... so there is a big expectation that we take positions,” she told reporters, referring to proposals by European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and by French President Emmanuel Macron on the future governance of the EU’s currency and economic union.
Merkel also cited conflicts in the Middle East, tensions with Russia and relations with the United States as factors that required a Germany “capable of acting”.
David McAllister, an executive committee member of Merkel’s Christian Democrats (CDU), echoed her views in comments to Reuters, adding that Germany needed to iron out its stance on key EU issues ahead of European Parliament elections in 2019.
“Diligence definitely comes before speed (in forming a coalition) but the government should be formed in time for Germany to be capable of acting if decisions need to be made (in Europe) in 2018,” McAllister said.
The conservatives should signal willingness to compromise and avoid drawing red lines as they prepare for talks with the SPD, he said. Preliminary talks are due to begin on Thursday.
While the conservatives and SPD have different opinions on Europe, they managed to work together in a 2013-2017 governing coalition and all major parties in Germany agree on fundamental issues relating to the EU, McAllister added.
Merkel’s initial efforts to forge a three-way coalition with the liberals and the Greens collapsed on Nov. 19, forcing her to approach the SPD, which had wanted to go into opposition after suffering its worst election result in German postwar history.
SPD leader Martin Schulz, who has previously been strongly opposed to another “grand coalition”, said on Monday he ruled nothing out ahead of the preliminary talks.
Stung by their previous experience of serving as junior partner in Merkel-led governments - in 2005-09 and again in 2013-17 - the SPD rank-and-file membership shares Schulz’s reticence about joining a new coalition.
Many SPD members favour a looser arrangement whereby the SPD agrees to tolerate a Merkel-led minority government, supporting or at least agreeing not to vote against certain measures.
A poll for RTL and NTV television showed 48 percent of SPD members were in favour of toleration, an inherently less stable form of government, and only 36 percent in favour of a renewed grand coalition.
Merkel herself has said she would prefer a fresh election to presiding over a minority government.
Schulz has promised to allow SPD members a vote on any deal his party reaches with Merkel.


BERLIN (Reuters) - During Germany’s election campaign, the Social Democrats (SPD) rallied behind French President Emmanuel Macron’s ideas for reform of the euro zone, including the creation of a budget,  finance minister and separate parliament for the currency bloc.
But as momentum builds for another “grand coalition” between the SPD and Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives, doubts are rising about whether the centre-left party will make European reform a top priority in looming negotiations.
Several senior SPD officials, some speaking on condition of anonymity, said that while the party continued to support Macron’s ideas, domestic reforms of health insurance, pensions and the labour market were likely to play a more prominent role in eventual talks.
“Europe is not a theme where we can simply push things through. We need to strive for a consensus,” said Johannes Kahrs, a budget expert for the SPD in parliament and leader of the conservative “Seeheimer Kreis” wing of the party.
“It would be nice if the conservatives went along with the idea of a budget for the euro zone, but they need to want it. It would make no sense to try to bully them into this.”
The comments may come as a disappointment to Macron, who called SPD leader Martin Schulz after the collapse of three-way talks between Merkel’s conservatives, the liberal Free Democrats (FDP) and Greens a week ago, and urged him to do his part to ensure political stability in Germany.
The EU faces a narrow window to forge agreement on Macron’s European reform proposals because, as 2019 approaches, it is expected to be consumed by the Brexit negotiations, wrangling over a new long-term budget for the bloc and EU elections.
For that reason, the French president would prefer to avoid a lengthy period of political uncertainty in Germany, including  new elections that could delay the formation of a government in Berlin until mid-2018.
Macron also may be hoping the SPD -- led by former European Parliament president Schulz and Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel -- can convince Merkel’s conservatives to embrace some of his more controversial ideas for the euro zone.
Macron, a centrist, honed many of his European reform ideas with Gabriel when both were economy ministers.
On page 98 of their election programme, the SPD calls for many of the same measures that Macron supports: a euro zone budget, finance minister and parliament, as well as harmonised corporate tax rates and the transformation of Europe’s ESM bailout mechanism into a more robust European Monetary Fund.
Two months after the election, senior SPD officials say  there is still broad support in the party for these ideas.
But none suggest that the party is likely to insist on them in talks with Merkel that could begin next month. Several pointed to the departure of Merkel’s hardline finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, who has shifted to the role of Bundestag president, as a significant step already.
“Before the election, a lot of people said we needed to get rid of Schaeuble. Now they’ve done that for us,” said one senior party member. “Will we push for more on Europe? Yes. Will there be other priorities that are perhaps more important? Yes.”
Another SPD official said achieving a level playing field on corporate tax rates in Europe and introducing a financial transactions tax were just as important as Macron’s plans to overhaul euro zone governance.
While Merkel has shown a readiness to work with Macron, other members of her conservative bloc are sceptical about his euro zone ideas, fearful Europe could develop into a “transfer union” in which Germany pays for reform-wary southern countries.
Over the past four years, the SPD struggled to put its mark on European policy, with Schaeuble, backed by Merkel, setting a strict rules-based course that emphasised structural reforms in euro member states over closer integration.


DHAKA (Reuters) - Bangladesh approved a $280 million (£212 million) project on Tuesday to develop an isolated and flood-prone island in the Bay of Bengal to temporarily house 100,000 Rohingya Muslims fleeing violence in neighbouring Myanmar.
The decision came just days after Bangladesh sealed a deal aiming to start returning Rohingya to Myanmar within two months to reduce pressure in refugee camps.
A Bangladeshi government committee headed by Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina approved the plan to develop Bhashan Char island, also known as Thenger Char, despite criticism from humanitarian workers who have said the island is all but uninhabitable.
Planning Minister Mustafa Kamal said it would take time to repatriate the refugees, and in the meantime Bangladesh needed a place to house them. The project to house 100,000 refugees on the island would be complete by 2019, he said.
“Many Rohingya people are living in dire conditions,” he said, describing the influx of refugees as “a threat to both security and the environment”. More than 620,000 Rohingya Muslims have sought sanctuary in Bangladesh after the military in mostly Buddhist Myanmar launched a harsh counter-insurgency operation in their villages across the northern parts of Rakhine State, following attacks by Rohingya militants on an army base and police posts on Aug. 25.
Bangladesh Foreign Minister Abul Hassan Mahmood Ali appealed in September for international support to transport Rohingya to the island.
There were already about 300,000 Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh before the most recent exodus.
Bangladesh, one of the world’s poorest and most crowded nations, plans to develop the island, which emerged from the silt off Bangladesh’s delta coast only 11 years ago and is two hours by boat from the nearest settlement.
It regularly floods during the June-September monsoons. When seas are calm, pirates roam the nearby waters to kidnap fishermen for ransom.
A plan to develop the island and use it to house refugees was first proposed in 2015 and revived last year. Despite criticism of the conditions on the island, Bangladesh says it has the right to decide where to shelter the growing numbers of refugees.


ATHENS (Reuters) - Greek police found bomb-making equipment and detonators in raids in Athens on Tuesday and were questioning nine people over suspected links to a banned militant group in Turkey ahead of an expected visit by Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan next week.
Eight men and a woman thought to hold Turkish citizenship were being detained after morning raids at three different addresses in central Athens. They were expected to appear before an investigating magistrate on Wednesday.
Earlier, police officials told Reuters the individuals were being quizzed for alleged links to the leftist militant DHKP/C, an outlawed group blamed for a string of attacks and suicide bombings in Turkey since 1990.
At three homes, police found materials available commercially which could potentially be used in making explosives, they said in a statement. They also retrieved digital material, travel documents and a pistol.
One of the detainees had been wanted by Greek police in connection with an arms and explosives haul off the Greek island of Chios, close to the Turkish coast, in 2013.
Witnesses saw police experts in hazmat suits and holding suitcases entering one address in Athens. Tests on an unknown substance found in jars were expected to be concluded within the day.
Turkey’s Erdogan is widely expected to visit Greece in December, although his visit has not been officially announced. It would be the first visit by a Turkish president in more than 50 years.
Another official told the semi-official Athens News Agency that the case was unconnected to domestic terror groups or militant Islamists, and described those questioned as being of Turkish origin.
DHKP/C, known also as the Revolutionary People’s Liberation Party/Front, is considered a terrorist group by the European Union, Turkey and the United States.


LISBON (Reuters) - The illegal drug trade on the dark web is growing rapidly, despite authorities shutting down major market sites like AlphaBay, as crime gangs diversify and seek new clients online, a report by two European Union agencies warned on Tuesday.
The report, which is the first of its kind to analyze the drug trade in Europe on the dark web, showed that online markets are becoming increasingly sophisticated and offering growing numbers of illegal products to buyers.
The dark web, or darknet, is a part of the internet that lies beyond the reach of search engines. Users are largely anonymous and untraceable and mainly pay with cryptocurrencies like bitcoin.
Alexis Goosdeel, head of Europe’s Lisbon-based drugs agency, said the report showed that the dark web is like the “bottom part of the iceberg” with growing and unknown threats.
Two thirds of dark web transactions involve drugs, the report by Europol and EMCDDA found. The biggest European markets are Germany, Britain and the Netherlands. Users also use dark web markets to buy guns, explosives and computer hacking tools.
Raids by the police, such as the closure of the AlphaBay and Hansa markets by European and U.S. authorities in recent months, stop criminals for a while but they quickly open new sites and continue business, said the report.[nL1N1KB0RW]
“Despite this positive achievement (closing AlphaBay and Hansa), those involved in the online drug trade appear to be resilient to such disruption and able to reorganize rapidly,” said Europol head Rob Wainwright.
From 2011-2015, drugs worth more than 170 million euros were sold over the dark web worldwide, including nearly 80 million euros worth in Europe, the report said.
Though this is a small fraction of the size of the physical market for drugs, Wainright said the number of products on offer was “growing exponentially”, “which must be an indication also of increased demand and supply”.
There were 350,000 products for sale on AlphaBay and Hansa, more than five times as many as were available on an earlier well-known dark web market, Silk Road, in 2013, he said.
Goosdeel said the dark web is an increasingly attractive market because buyers and sellers are anonymous and there is a perception that drugs bought there are good quality.
The report found that since the first major dark web market, the ‘Farmer’s Market’, was launched in 2010 and shut down in 2012, dozens of new markets have appeared and replaced it. Silk Road, has reappeared in versions 2.0 and 3.0 since the original was shut down.
There are now 14 dark web markets in operation with names like ‘Darknet Heroes League’ and ‘House of Lions market.’
“Vendors and buyers quickly migrate to new platforms,” the report said, adding that the majority of dark web sites survive less than a year.


UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - France said on Tuesday it wanted the United Nations Security Council to consider imposing targeted sanctions on human traffickers operating in Libya after a video appearing to show African migrants sold as slaves sparked global outrage.
Several members of the 15-member Security Council expressed their horror at the video during a meeting on Tuesday, requested by France, to discuss human trafficking in Libya. The footage broadcast earlier this month by CNN showed what it said was an auction of men to Libyan buyers as farmhands and sold for $400 (£302) each.
French U.N. Ambassador Francois Delattre said the council should use sanctions to help stamp out trafficking in Libya.
“France will propose to assist the sanctions committee ... in identifying responsible individuals and entities for trafficking through Libyan territory,” Delattre told the council. “We count upon support of the members of the council to make headway to that end.”
Under a sanctions regime set up in 2011, the Security Council is able to impose a global asset freeze and travel ban on “individuals and entities involved in or complicit in ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, the commission of serious human rights abuses against persons in Libya.”
France can propose names for targeted U.N. sanctions but needs to win consensus support within the Security Council’s 15-member Libya sanctions committee.
Some council members expressed support for the possibility of imposing targeted sanctions, while others backed the council first issuing a statement. Diplomats said France, Britain and Sweden were drafting a statement.
“We all have a responsibility to act. This is not the moment to pass the buck,” said Sweden’s Deputy U.N. Ambassador Carl Skau.
Libya descended into chaos after a NATO-backed uprising in 2011 led to the overthrow and killing of leader Muammar Gaddafi, with two competing governments backed by militias scrambling for control of the oil-producing country. Islamic State militants have also gained a foothold in the North African state.
People smugglers operating with impunity in Libya have sent hundreds of thousands of migrants to Europe, mainly Italy, by sea since 2014. Thousands have died during the voyages.
The Security Council last week adopted an Italian-drafted resolution urging tougher action to crack down on human trafficking and modern slavery worldwide.


VOSTOCHNY COSMODROME, Russia (Reuters) - Russian space agency Roscosmos said on Tuesday it had failed to establish contact with a newly-launched weather satellite.
The Meteor-M was launched earlier on Tuesday from Russia’s new Vostochny cosmodrome in the Far East.
Roscosmos said the satellite had not reached its designated orbit, and that it could not make contact with it. Roscosmos experts were analyzing the situation, it said in a statement.
Along with the Meteor-M, 18 smaller satellites were launched from Vostochny at 0841 Moscow time (0341 a.m. GMT), Roscosmos said. It said it would take more than five hours to place them to their designated orbits.
These satellites belong to scientific, research and commercial companies from Russia, Norway, Sweden, the United States, Japan, Canada and Germany, Roscosmos said.
The Vostochny spaceport, laid out in the thick taiga forest in the Amur Region, is the first civilian rocket launch site in Russia, intended to phase out Russia’s reliance on the Soviet-era Baikonur cosmodrome, which Moscow leases from Kazakhstan.
In April last year, after delays and massive costs overruns, Russia launched its first rocket from Vostochny, a day after a technical glitch forced an embarrassing postponement of the event in the presence of President Vladimir Putin.


JAKARTA/CANDI DASA, Indonesia (Reuters) - Bali’s rumbling Mount Agung is starting to impact the economy of the holiday island and, if the eruptions and volcanic ash clouds persist, could spark a bigger wave of cancellations by visitors to Indonesia’s main tourism destination as peak season beckons.
The relatively small island has an outsized importance for Indonesian tourism. In January-September, Bali received 4.5 million foreign tourist arrivals, nearly half of the 10.5 million arrivals in Indonesia.
Foreign tourist arrivals to the majority-Hindu island rose 26 percent in the nine-month period on an annual basis, though dropped on a monthly basis in September, when Indonesian authorities first raised the warning alert on Agung.
“Bali is about tourism, nothing else. If it (the eruption)  is prolonged for around 1-3 months, it will impact our tourism significantly,” said I Ketut Ardana, chairman of the Association of the Indonesian Tours and Travel Agencies (ASITA).
“We can feel a small impact now, the price of staple goods is increasing,” he said.
Indonesia closed Bali’s airport on Tuesday for a second day, stranding thousands of visitors due to the ash cloud. On Monday alone, it disrupted 445 flights that would have carried 59,000 passengers.
Chinese tourists have overtaken Australians to become the top visitors to Bali, representing around a quarter of arrivals in January-September. Australian and Japanese tourists are the second- and third-largest groups.
Foreign tourists spent about $1,100 (£827) on average during Indonesia holidays in 2016, according to tourism ministry data.
President Joko Widodo has been trying to promote creation of 10 “new Balis” in other parts of the scenic Indonesian archipelago.  But for many so far, holidaying in Indonesia means going to Bali.
As Agung spewed tall columns of ash, life continued largely as normal on Tuesday for villagers near the volcano who set up traditional markets and offered Hindu prayers.
Matthew Smyth from Ireland, a restaurant owner in Amed, around 15 km (9 miles) from the volcano, said many businesses using rented land would be threatened if the eruption dragged on.
“Half of the businesses here are built on credit... if the situation continues many people will lose their land,” said Smyth, who is also setting up a yoga retreat and freediving centre.
The problems facing Bali tourism come as Indonesian policymakers have been trying to fire up an economy stuck at around 5 percent growth, held back by largely flat consumption.
Bali has been growing more quickly. The tourism sector was the biggest contributor to its 6.24 percent regional GDP growth last year.
But Agung has already put a dent in Bali’s growth this year.
“If it (the eruption) is prolonged to a month, especially in Bali, it could have an impact on tourism revenue. I think this is a short-term shock, but it needs to be watched,” said Myrdal Gunarto, an economist at Maybank Indonesia in Jakarta.
Wayan Wirjana, 31, the manager of a restaurant in Candi Dasa, a popular beach town in Bali, said he was only getting five visitors a day, down from 15-20 in the summer, and expects the usually busy Christmas and New Year period to be slow. 
“If things continue in the long term, like through the Christmas period, we’ll have to lay off staff even if temporarily. We all have families so there is a very real impact on us,” he said. 


BEIRUT/GENEVA (Reuters) - A Syrian government delegation will arrive in Geneva on Wednesday, a day later than expected, to attend peace talks being held there this week, Syrian state news agency SANA said.
The delegation had delayed its planned departure for the talks, which begin on Tuesday, because of the opposition’s insistence that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad step down.   \
The United Nations Special Envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura, said the government and opposition would have a chance to negotiate directly for the first time, but it was not clear if they would choose to do so.
“We are going to offer it. We will see if this takes place. But we will be offering that,” he said after meeting the opposition delegation.
De Mistura has received assurances that the Syrian government delegation will attend the talks, U.N. spokeswoman Alessandra Vellucci told a Geneva news briefing.
“At least we know that they are coming,” she said, declining to give details on who transmitted the message from Damascus.
De Mistura said the government had accepted a Russian suggestion of a ceasefire in the besieged rebel-held enclave of Eastern Ghouta near Damascus. Bombardment on the area killed three people on Tuesday, a war monitor said earlier.
A delegation from the newly-unified Syrian opposition, which arrived in the Swiss city on Monday, is due to hold a first meeting with de Mistura later on Tuesday, she said.
In an emailed statement, the opposition negotiating committee said it was ready to meet the government side.
“It (the government) no longer has the pretext that the opposition is fragmented. We are one. We are ready to negotiate directly with the other side,” said Yahya Aridi, the head of the negotiation committee.
Earlier, the pro-Damascus Syrian newspaper al-Watan reported that the Syrian government delegation to an eighth round of peace talks in Geneva this week has not yet left Damascus.
It had reported on Monday that the delay was because of the opposition’s insistence that Assad step down, which he has refused to do.
Nasr Hariri, head of the opposition delegation, told a Geneva news conference on Monday night that he is aiming for Assad’s removal as a result of negotiations.
The government delegation will be headed by Syria’s U.N. ambassador and chief negotiator Bashar al-Ja‘afari, SANA said.
A breakthrough in the talks is seen as unlikely as Assad and his allies push for total military victory in Syria’s civil war, now in its seventh year, and his opponents stick by their demand he leave power.


KANDAHAR, Afghanistan (Reuters) - A roadside bomb planted by the Taliban killed at least eight civilians including three women and a child in Afghanistan’s Kandahar province on Tuesday, a local official said.
The victims of the blast in Kandahar’s Maroof district “were going from Maroof district centre to their village when a newly planted Taliban bomb hit their car,” said Zia Durani, a spokesman for Kandahar police.
The southern province of Kandahar has long been a Taliban stronghold.
Durani provided no evidence to support the assertion of Taliban responsibility. The group has not claimed the attack.
Roadside bombs have been responsible for about 18 percent of civilian casualties this year, according to the United Nations.
Nearly 500 people were killed by improvised explosive devices between January and September.


PARIS (Reuters) - During his rapid rise to the presidency, France’s Emmanuel Macron was sometimes referred to as a “lucky general” -- a leader with the right skills for the job but also a generous dose of the good fortune needed to win the day.
The 39-year-old certainly took advantage of a string of lucky breaks, especially a corruption scandal that derailed the campaign of front-running, centre-right rival Francois Fillon. But six months into his occupation of the Elysee Palace, there are niggling signs Macron’s luck could be starting to turn.
In particular, the uncertain political picture in Germany has complicated his ambition to reform Europe’s single currency zone, something he has put at the heart of his presidency and that stands or falls on Franco-German cooperation.
And while changes he introduced early on to France’s employment rules provoked less unrest than expected, the impact on the economy has so far been muted. His plans to amend the  pensions and benefits system may not be so readily accepted.
From a fiscal point of view, one of his main objectives is to bring the national deficit below 3 percent of gross domestic product for the first time in a decade. Yet current indications are that he will struggle with that goal, leaving France at odds with the EU’s executive Commission.
And within his own party -- En Marche, formed as a grassroots movement a little over a year ago -- there is unease among some members about a top-down structure that goes against the ethos that propelled him to a five-year term in May.
Some breaks continue to fall in Macron’s favour. France last week won the right to host the European Banking Agency in a lucky dip against Dublin, and domestically he faces little serious opposition from either the left or right.
But his biggest ambitions rely on a deep and sustained relationship with Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose position after 12 years as Germany’s leader has been weakened over two months of so-far fruitless talks to form a governing coalition.
“We are naturally paying close attention to everything that might help stabilise the political situation (in Germany),” Benjamin Griveaux, a close Macron ally who was recently named the government’s new spokesman, said on Monday.
“Without a strong partner it will obviously be more difficult to carry out the president’s ambitious European project.”
At one level, the fact that Merkel is now talking to Germany’s Social Democrats (SPD) about a “grand coalition”, after overtures to the Liberals and Greens failed, is positive for Macron since the SPD is more avowedly pro-EU.
But there’s no guarantee the SPD will sign up to Macron’s agenda, even if its leader, Martin Schulz, is a former European Parliament president who is committed to the project.
Schulz has only gone as far as to say Macron’s ideas need to be discussed in coalition talks with Merkel, while other SPD officials say domestic reforms to health insurance and pensions are a more pressing consideration.
“Europe is not a theme where we can simply push things through,” said Johannes Kahrs, a budget expert for the SPD in parliament and leader of the party’s conservative wing.
Macron’s ideas for overhauling the euro zone, including the creation of a region-wide budget, finance minister and separate parliament, may be just too ambitious for Germany to swallow.
“It would be nice if the conservatives went along with the idea of a budget for the euro zone, but they need to want it,” said Kahrs. “It would make no sense to try to bully them.”
Even as he focuses on his grand ambitions, Macron and his finance minister, Bruno Le Maire, must battle to get the state’s historically overstretched finances in order, while hoping that France’s currently steady growth rate doesn’t falter.
The budget deficit has been falling and should dip just below 3 percent next year, but from the European Commission’s point of view that is insufficient. It wants more done on the structural deficit, which strips out the business cycle.
If Macron and Le Maire are to achieve more, it will likely mean cutting deeper into regional budgets, where planned reductions have already provoked anger among mayors.
Unemployment figures show job creation is at a record high but the jobless rate still ticked higher in the third quarter, rising to 9.7 percent. While it is forecast to decline again, the French rate remains way above Germany’s of 5.6 percent.
Jean Pisani-Ferry, a leading economist and former adviser to Macron, believes perhaps the biggest risk Macron faces is ensuring his European strategy pays off, because his domestic agenda will in large part be influenced by it in turn.
Yet that depends a lot on Germany, and the wider EU.
”He’s making a huge political investment (in Europe),“ said Pisani-Ferry, a professor of economics and public management at Sciences Po university. ”And if you’re making a huge political investment, you want at some point some pay-off.
“If there is no pay-off whatsoever, then obviously there will be domestic political consequences. It will be a setback for him.”


GENEVA (Reuters) - The United Nations Human Rights Council said on Tuesday it would examine the situation of Muslim Rohingyas and other minorities in Myanmar, in a special session on Dec. 5 in Geneva.
The request for the session, submitted by Bangladesh and Saudi Arabia, has been backed by a total of 33 member states of the 47-member forum, including those two countries, it said.
Reuters, quoting U.N. sources, reported on Monday that the session was expected to be held on killings, rapes and other crimes committed against the Rohingya, which have driven more than 600,000 into Bangladesh since Aug. 25.


HYDERABAD, India (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka Trump kicked off a global business summit in southern India on Tuesday calling for better opportunities for women entrepreneurs battling heavy odds around the world.
Ivanka, also an informal adviser to her father, received a warm welcome in India’s high-tech hub of Hyderabad with all the trappings of a state guest.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi joined her in the opening of the U.S.-backed Global Entrepreneurship Summit which New Delhi is hoping will further boost political and economic ties with the United States under the Trump administration.
Ivanka, wearing a bright green floral dress, said fuelling the growth of women-led businesses and closing the gender entrepreneurship gap could help expand global GDP by 2 percent.
“Women still face steep obstacles to starting, owning and growing their businesses. We must ensure women entrepreneurs have access to capital, access to networks and mentors,” Ivanka said to loud cheers from a packed audience in a heavily-guarded conference center.
In developing countries, 70 percent of women-owned smaller businesses were being denied access to capital, she said, leading to a near $300 billion annual credit deficit for them.
GES is an event conceived by former U.S. President Barack Obama. It has previously been held in countries such as the United States and Turkey, but this year’s edition is the first under the Trump administration.
The theme of the conference this year is “Women First, Prosperity for All”. More than half the participants at the summit are women, and all-female delegations are representing countries such as Afghanistan, Israel and Saudi Arabia.
Ivanka, who ran an eponymous clothing and jewelry business before becoming an adviser in the White House, has made women’s issues one of her main policy areas.
She cited a Harvard Business Review report that found that in the United States investors ask men questions about their potential for gains, whereas they ask women questions about their potential for loss.
Billboards with pictures of Ivanka dotted many parts of Hyderabad which is also home to major U.S. firms such as Microsoft (MSFT.O). In recent days, authorities took beggars off city streets in a clean-up drive before the meeting, media said.
More than 10,000 police officials were deployed in the city and sniffer dogs as well as “spotters”, or men trained to detect any suspicious activity or people, were on stand by, a police officer said.
On the sidelines, Ivanka held talks with Modi, as well as Indian foreign minister Sushma Swaraj. Later she toured the conference center with Modi and met a few entrepreneurs, before watching traditional Indian dance performances in the inaugural session.
“This event not only connects the Silicon Valley with Hyderabad but also show-cases the close ties between the United States of America and India. It underlines our shared commitment toward encouraging entrepreneurship and innovation,” Modi said.
India has become a major market for the United States, with two-way trade of about $115 billion last year. They aim to raise that to $500 billion by 2022. Military and strategic ties are also improving as China’s influence rises in Asia and beyond.
“The Trump administration sees India as a strategic partner and wants to engage with India more. When you look at sending of Ivanka Trump, it is sending a very strong signal,” said Mukesh Aghi, president of the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum.


BERLIN (Reuters) - German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Tuesday said she regretted a conservative minister’s vote in favour of an EU proposal to extend the use of a weed-killer against the wishes of a cabinet colleague, adding such incident should not happen again.
“As for the vote of the agriculture ministry yesterday on glyphosate, this did not comply with the instructions worked out by the federal government,” Merkel said.
“I expect that such an incident will not be repeated.”


NAYPYITAW (Reuters) - Pope Francis on Tuesday urged the leaders of majority-Buddhist Myanmar, mired in a crisis over the fate of Muslim Rohingya people, to commit themselves to justice, human rights and respect for “each ethnic group and its identity”.
The pope avoided a diplomatic backlash by not using the highly charged term “Rohingya” in his addresses to officials, including leader Aung San Suu Kyi.
However, his words were applicable to members of the beleaguered minority, who Myanmar does not recognise as citizens   or as members of a distinct ethnic group.
More than 620,000 Rohingya have fled to Bangladesh - where the pope heads on Thursday - since the end of August, escaping from a military crackdown that Washington has said included “horrendous atrocities” aimed at “ethnic cleansing”.
Francis made his comments in Naypyitaw, the country’s capital, where he was received by Suu Kyi, the Nobel peace laureate and champion of democracy who has faced international criticism for expressing doubts about the reports of rights abuses against the Rohingya and failing to condemn the military.
“The future of Myanmar must be peace, a peace based on respect for the dignity and rights of each member of society, respect for each ethnic group and its identity, respect for the rule of law, and respect for a democratic order that enables each individual and every group – none excluded – to offer its legitimate contribution to the common good,” he said.
Myanmar rejects the term “Rohingya” and its use, with most people instead referring to the Muslim minority in Rakhine state as illegal migrants from neighbouring Bangladesh.
The pope had used the word Rohingya in two appeals from the Vatican this year.
But before the diplomatically risky trip, the pope’s own advisers recommended that he not use it in Myanmar, lest he set off a diplomatic incident that could turn the country’s military and government against minority Christians.
Human rights groups such as Amnesty International, which has accused the army of “crimes against humanity”, had urged him to utter it.
A hardline group of Buddhist monks warned on Monday - without elaborating - that there would be “a response” if he spoke openly about the Rohingya.
RELIGIOUS DIFFERENCES “A FORCE FOR UNITY”
Richard Horsey, a former U.N. official and analyst based in Yangon, said the pope’s speech was “very cautiously worded” and “crafted to avoid antagonising local audiences”.
“He has clearly taken the advice of his cardinals to avoid weighing in too heavily on the Rohingya crisis, but he certainly alludes to it with a message in his speech on some of the specific points that he makes,” Horsey said.
Vatican sources say some in the Holy See believe the trip was decided too hastily after full diplomatic ties were established in May during a visit by Suu Kyi.
The pope met privately with Suu Kyi at the presidential palace in this sparsely populated town that became the capital in 2006, and then they both made public addresses at a conference centre.
Suu Kyi said in her speech that there had been an erosion of trust and understanding between communities of Rakhine state, but did not refer to the Rohingya.
Francis, speaking in Italian, said that as it emerged from nearly 50 years of military rule, Myanmar needed to heal the wounds of the past.
He called for a “just, reconciled and inclusive social order”, adding that “the arduous process of peacebuilding and national reconciliation can only advance through a commitment to justice and respect for human rights”.
Myanmar’s army, whose leaders the pope met on Monday, has been battling various autonomy-seeking ethnic minority guerrillas for decades.
The military has denied the accusations of murder, rape, torture and forced displacement of the Rohingya that have been made against it.
The Rohingya exodus from Rakhine state began after Aug. 25, when Rohingya militants attacked security posts and the Myanmar army launched a counter-offensive.
Referring to the country’s communal tensions, Francis said religious differences “need not be a source of division and distrust, but rather a force for unity, forgiveness, tolerance and wise nation-building”.
He made the same point at an earlier meeting with leaders of the Buddhist, Islamic, Hindu, Jewish and Christian faiths in Yangon, where he called for “unity in diversity”.
Aye Lwin, a prominent Muslim leader who was at the interfaith meeting, told Reuters he had asked the pope to appeal to Myanmar’s political leaders “to rescue the religion that we cherish, which could be hijacked by a hidden agenda”.
Only about 700,000 of Myanmar’s 51 million people are Roman Catholic. Thousands of them have travelled from far and wide to see him and more than 150,000 people have registered for a mass that Francis will say in Yangon on Wednesday.
Francis is expected to meet a group of Rohingya refugees in Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh, on the second leg of his trip.


BEIRUT (Reuters) - Shelling killed three people in the last major rebel stronghold near Damascus on Tuesday, a war monitor said, shortly before the UN Syria envoy said the government had agreed a ceasefire there.
Russia had on Monday proposed a ceasefire in the besieged Eastern Ghouta area on Nov. 28-29. U.N. Syria envoy Staffan De Mistura later said Russia had told him that the Syrian government had accepted the idea, but he added “we have to see if it happens”.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, the war monitor, said there were three deaths and 15 injuries from Tuesday’s shelling, but that it was less intense than in previous days. A witness in the area said that while the shelling was lighter earlier in the day, it had intensified later.
A Syrian official said the situation on Tuesday was calm.
The UN’s humanitarian agency OCHA said in a Tweet that relief teams had entered Eastern Ghouta with food and health supplies for 7,200 people, entering through Nashabiyeh on the opposite side of the pocket from where the fighting was.
Over the weekend, government air strikes and shelling on Ghouta intensified, killing at least 43 people on Sunday and Monday, the Observatory said. Syrian state media said 13 shells hit government-held areas of Damascus on Monday.
Eastern Ghouta is one of several “de-escalation” zones across western Syria where Russia has brokered ceasefire deals between rebels and President Bashar al-Assad’s government. But fighting has continued there.
U.N.-backed peace talks in Geneva are set to begin on Tuesday. The government delegation will arrive on Wednesday to attend the talks, state news agency SANA reported.
The opposition delegation, the Syrian Negotiation Commission, called for direct negotiations with the government instead of the previous model of each side speaking only to UN mediators.
Médecins Sans Frontières, the international medical humanitarian organisation, said on Monday hundreds of people had been wounded in intense bombing and shelling of the Eastern Ghouta in the last two weeks.
It said five MSF-supported field hospitals in East Ghouta had treated 576 wounded patients and recorded 69 deaths, with a quarter of the wounded women or children under the age of 15.
In a statement, MSF said its figures did not account for the total numbers killed in the area as there are other medical facilities it does not support regularly.


STAVROPOL, Russia (Reuters) - President Vladimir Putin may be criticized by the West for the annexation of Crimea from Ukraine in 2014, but at home his public approval ratings have been boosted.
The operation to seize the peninsula, hailed by Russian nationalists as “The Crimean Spring”, led to an upsurge in what is called “military and patriotic education” of Russian youths.
In the southern region of Stavropol, interest has been revived in the Cossacks, a warrior class in tsarist times, and in the history of tsarist and modern wars which Moscow fought in the North Caucasus region.
The Cossacks, who were portrayed as peaceful ploughmen in quiet times, were swift to repel attacks from nearby regions, such as Chechnya and Dagestan, or join Moscow’s military campaigns elsewhere.
“Tomorrow begins today,” reads the motto of a cadet school in Stavropol that was named after Alexei Yermolov, a 19th century Russian general who conquered the Caucasus for the Russian empire.
A Reuters photo essay (reut.rs/2jp4dgu) captures images from the General Yermolov Cadet School training in Stavropol and in the countryside.
Most cadets come from families of active Russian soldiers or officers from other security forces. About 40 percent of school leavers join the military or law enforcement agencies.
Many instructors spent years in “hot spots” or conflict zones.
A group of teenagers from the “Patriot” club in Crimea visited the school’s field camp, named “Russian Knights”, over the summer. Up to 600 boys and girls train there each summer.
This camp trains more than 1,500 teenagers a year.
Physical exercises go hand-in-hand with weapons training, marksmanship tests, car driving and even parachuting.


GENEVA (Reuters) - Syrian government and opposition negotiators meeting in Geneva this week will have the chance to hold direct talks for the first time, but it is not clear if they will take it, the U.N. envoy mediating the talks told reporters on Tuesday.
“We are going to offer it. We will see if this takes place. But we will be offering that,” Staffan de Mistura said after meeting the opposition delegation at their hotel.


CONAKRY (Reuters) - A two-day skirmish between Guinean and Malian villagers over control of a gold mine that straddles the countries’ joint border killed at least 17 people, a government official in Guinea said on Tuesday.
Villagers in both countries lay claim to the zone’s rich underground deposits, which have lured thousands of people to work in unregulated small-scale mines along the border.
Artisanal gold mining, conducted with rudimentary tools, is a key source of income in both Mali and Guinea, but poses numerous safety risks, including frequent mine collapses.
“There are five dead on the Guinean side and 12 dead on the Malian side,” said Cheick Mohamed Diallo, prefect of the town of Mandiana in eastern Guinea.
A witness on the Guinean side of the border said the villagers fought each other with firearms and bladed weapons. The fighting has ceased, local resident Cheikh Keita said, but the situation remained tense on Tuesday.
A similar incident occurred in February 2015, when Guinean miners killed three Malian nationals in a fight over a gold discovery.


BERLIN (Reuters) - The mayor of a small town in western Germany known for pursuing liberal migrant policies was stabbed in the neck at a kebab shop on Monday evening and seriously hurt in an attack that officials suspected was politically motivated.
The conservative mayor of Altena, Andreas Hollstein, appeared at a news conference on Tuesday to describe the attack which left him with a 15 cm long cut on his neck, covered in a white plaster.
“I feared for my life,” said the 57-year-old mayor who has received a German integration prize from Chancellor Angela Merkel. He said the attack took place in an atmosphere of growing social tension and hate.
The attacker asked him if he was the mayor, before saying: “You let me die of thirst and let 200 refugees into Altena,” Hollstein recalled. Then the man plunged a 30 cm long kitchen knife into him.
Police told reporters that the suspect, identified only as Werner S., had been arrested. They believed his motives were xenophobic and political, although they took it to be a spontaneous attack, adding he had alcohol in his system.
The attack comes as Germany struggles to deal with an increasingly fractured society. Many voters are still angry  about the influx of more than 1.6 million people seeking asylum in the two years to the end of 2016.
In a September election, some 13 percent of Germans voted for the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) which campaigned hard against Merkel’s open-door migrant policy.
“It brings us no further forward if we transmit political views with hate,” Hollstein said. He said his wife had warned him about possible attacks due to his policies but he was determined to continue his work.
“I will push for refugees and for other people in a weaker social situation,” he vowed, thanking the owner of the shop and his son for probably saving his life.
Under his leadership, the town of Altena, with 17,000 residents and 450 refugees, has taken in more migrants than it was allocated.
Politicians including Merkel expressed their shock.
“I am horrified by the knife attack on the mayor Andreas Hollstein - and very relieved that he can already be back with his family. Thanks also to those who helped him,” Merkel said via her spokesman on Twitter.
The attack is reminiscent of the stabbing two years ago of a candidate for mayor of Cologne, Henriette Reker, in an anti-refugee attack. She was seriously hurt but went on to win the election and become mayor.


BEIJING (Reuters) - Four cities in China’s northeastern province Heilongjiang were accused by the Ministry of Environmental Protection (MEP) of increasing air pollution due to administrative failures.
“Despite a red alert for bad weather, the cities failed to enforce emergency measures to reduce emissions ... which missed the opportunity to ease pollution,” the MEP said in a statement on Tuesday.
The cities of Harbin, Jiamusi, Shuangyashan and Hegang were covered in a blanket of chocking smog on Oct.18-20, with concentrations of hazardous particles, known as PM2.5, reaching over 400 micrograms.
China’s official air quality standard is 35 micrograms, while the recommended level set by the World Health Organization should be no more than 10 micrograms.
To combat air pollution, Beijing has issued guidelines for temporary measures to curb emissions. Some industrial plants in the steel, aluminium, cement and ceramics sectors in northern part of the country were asked to limit production by up to 50 percent during the winter season.
Illegal crop straw burning, which was believed to be the main cause of the air pollution in four cities, was detected by the MEP using remote satellite sensors during the night.
The MEP also found utilisation data for crop straw in the cities had been forged. Almost 90 percent and 70 percent of the data reported by Shuangyashan and Hegang respectively in 2016 was found to have been exaggerated.
Some coal-fired power utilities such as plants controlled by state-backed China Huadian Corporation and Harbin Hatou Investment Co as well as some steel mills and coal producers were found not to be enforcing capacity cuts during red alerts.
Officials at the four cities have been given 20 working days to make improvement plans, the MEP said.


BERLIN (Reuters) - German cities will call on the government to immediately release 1 billion euros (£903 million) of promised funding to cut diesel pollution and help them avert a potential ban on diesel vehicles.
Pressure is growing on Germany to enforce Clean Air limits introduced in the European Union in 2010. Ninety cities, including Berlin and Munich, could face penalties for having nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels in excess of the permitted limits, according to the DUH environmental lobby.
German municipalities and states are meeting Chancellor Angela Merkel and cabinet ministers for second “diesel summit” on Tuesday. Just before a September election, Merkel’s government announced it would double funding allocated to curbing excess NO2 levels, but nearly three months later the intended recipients are still waiting.
“I hope we will today agree on an immediate-action programme,” Gerd Landsberg, head of Germany’s association of municipalities (DStGB), told ARD television.
“The funds have to be released now. We cannot wait on and on,” he said.
Environmentalists have criticised the meeting for including neither the DUH nor carmakers.
Auto manufacturers including VW, Daimler and BMW pledged in August to overhaul the emissions-control software on 5.3 million diesel cars and to contribute about 250 million euros toward the 1 billion euros, steps dismissed as insufficient by the DUH.
The 1 billion euros of pledged support will not suffice to finance more long-term structural steps, such as digital tools to improve traffic management, infrastructure for electric cars and public transport expansion, said Landsberg.
“Ultimately we need broad changes in transport policy, it will not be possible to organise this with the 1 billion (euros),” he told ARD.
“But it would be a signal, also for the courts, that something is happening to reduce the nitrogen oxide emissions.”


ATHENS (Reuters) - Greek police found bomb making equipment and detonators during an early-morning raid at three addresses in Athens on Tuesday, it said in a statement.
Nine persons were being questioned, police said. Earlier police officials told Reuters the individuals were being quizzed for alleged links to DHKP/C, an outlawed group blamed for a string of attacks and suicide bombings in Turkey since 1990.
Police sources earlier said unspecified material in jars was found, and was being tested. The police statement said ‘commercial goods, which could potentially be used in making explosive materials’ were found.


NAYPYITAW (Reuters) - Pope Francis said on Tuesday that Myanmar is suffering from civil conflict and hostilities “that have lasted all too long and created deep divisions”, but in a speech in the country’s capital he did not refer to the minority Rohingya Muslims.
“The arduous process of peacebuilding and national reconciliation can only advance through a commitment to justice and respect for human rights,” he said, speaking after Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi had made an address.
“Religious differences need not be a source of division and distrust, but rather a force for unity, forgiveness, tolerance and wise nationbuilding,” the pope added.
The pope’s visit to Myanmar comes after an exodus of more than 620,000 Rohingya from Rakhine state to the southern tip of Bangladesh following a military crackdown that the United States last week branded “ethnic cleansing”.
His trip is so delicate that some papal advisers warned him   against even saying the word “Rohingya”, lest he set off a diplomatic incident that could turn the country’s military and government against minority Christians.
Myanmar does not recognise the Rohingya as citizens nor as members of a distinct ethnic group with their own identity, and it rejects the term “Rohingya” and its use.
Pope Francis did not use the word in his speech.


NAYPYITAW (Reuters) - Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi said on Tuesday there had been an erosion of trust and understanding between communities of Rakhine state, but did not refer to the hundreds of thousands of Rohingya Muslims who have fled since a military crackdown there.
“Of the many challenges that our government has been facing, the situation in the Rakhine has most strongly captured the attention of the world,” Suu Kyi said in a speech at a ceremony to welcome Pope Francis in the capital, Naypyitaw, on the second day of his visit to the country.
“As we address longstanding issues, social, economic and political, that have eroded trust and understanding, harmony and cooperation, between different communities in Rakhine, the support of our people and of good friends who only wish to see us succeed in our endeavours, has been invaluable,” she said.
More than 620,000 Rohingya have left northern Rakhine state over the past three months to escape what Amnesty International has dubbed “crimes against humanity”, gathering in refugee camps at the southern tip of neighbouring Bangladesh.
The United States has accused Myanmar of “ethnic cleansing” against the Rohingya, but China has stood by the country and Suu Kyi is due to travel to Beijing later this week.
Suu Kyi, a Nobel peace laureate and champion of democracy who for years faced down the junta that long ruled her country, has faced condemnation from around the globe for expressing doubts about reports of rights abuses against the Rohingya and failing to condemn the military.


BEIRUT (Reuters) - A Syrian government delegation will arrive in Geneva on Wednesday to attend peace talks this week, state news agency SANA said, quoting Syria’s foreign affairs ministry.
The delegation will be headed by Syria’s U.N. ambassador and chief negotiator Bashar al-Ja‘afari, SANA said on Tuesday.
The delegation had delayed its planned departure to the talks set to begin on Tuesday because of the opposition’s insistence that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad step down.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - No firm date has been set yet for a Congress of Syria’s peoples proposed by Russia, the Kremlin said on Tuesday, stressing that such a forum should be as inclusive as possible.
“There is no clarity yet (on the date), no one is setting a task for himself to adjust this event to the New Year holidays or after them,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a conference call with reporters.
“The main thing is to properly prepare and agree the lists (of the participants) - this is precisely the hardest part of it.”


DUBLIN (Reuters) - The two independent cabinet ministers that support Prime Minister Leo Varadkar’s minority government said the uncertainty over the future of his deputy prime minister was ‘very grave’.
“The situation is very grave. We will make our views known to the taoiseach (prime minister) at cabinet this morning,” the Independent Alliance group’s Finian McGrath told reporters. He would not comment on whether the deputy prime minister should resign.


LONDON, Nov 28 (Reuters) - The number of people newly diagnosed with HIV in Europe reached its highest level in 2016 since records began, showing the region’s epidemic growing “at an alarming pace”, health officials said on Tuesday.
That year, 160,000 people contracted the virus that causes AIDS in the 53 countries that make up the World Health Organization’s European region, the agency said in a joint report with the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC).
Around 80 percent of those were in eastern Europe, the report found.
“This is the highest number of cases recorded in one year. If this trend persists, we will not be able to achieve the ... target of ending the HIV epidemic by 2030,” the WHO’s European regional director, Zsuzsanna Jakab, said in a statement.
The trend was particularly worrying, the organisations said,  because many patients had already been carrying the HIV infection for several years by the time they were diagnosed, making the virus harder to control and more likely to have been passed on to others.
Early diagnosis is important with HIV because it allows people to start treatment with AIDS drugs sooner, increasing their chances of living a long and healthy life.
“Europe needs to do more in its HIV response,” said ECDC director Andrea Ammon. She said the average time from estimated time of infection until a person is diagnosed is three years, “which is far too long”.
The report said new strategies were needed to expand the reach of HIV testing - including self-testing services and testing provided by lay providers.
Almost 37 million people worldwide have the human immunodeficiency virus that causes AIDS. The majority of cases are in poorer regions such as Africa, where access to testing, prevention and treatment is more limited, but the HIV epidemic has also proved stubborn in wealthier regions like Europe.
The WHO European Region comprises 53 countries, with a population of nearly 900 million people.
The ECDC/WHO report found that over the past ten years, the rate of newly diagnosed HIV infections in this region has risen by 52 percent from 12 in every 100,000 of population in 2007 to 18.2 for every 100,000 in 2016.
That decade-long increase was “mainly driven by the continuing upward trend in the East,” the report said.
An ECDC study published earlier this year also found that around one in six new cases of HIV diagnosed in Europe are in people over the age of 50.


ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Tuesday his talks with U.S. President Donald Trump last week were the first occasion in a long time the two NATO allies were “on the same wavelength” and they would speak against this week.
Diplomatic ties between Ankara and Washington have been strained by several disagreements, particularly over the United States’ support for the YPG Syrian Kurdish militia, which Ankara regards as a terrorist group.
“The telephone call which we had with Trump on Friday was the first in a long time in which we got on the same wavelength,” Erdogan said in a speech to deputies from his ruling AK Party in parliament.
He said discussions would continue in the coming days on the issues of the YPG, defence industry cooperation and the fight against the network of a U.S.-based cleric whom Ankara accuses of orchestrating last year’s failed coup in Turkey.
According to Turkey’s foreign minister, Trump on Friday told Erdogan he had issued instructions that weapons should not be provided to the Syrian Kurdish YPG.
However, the Pentagon said on Monday it was reviewing “adjustments” in arms for Syrian Kurdish forces, but it stopped short of halting weapons transfers, suggesting such decisions would be based on battlefield requirements.
Speaking to reporters in parliament after his speech, Erdogan said the Pentagon statement would be discussed at Turkey’s National Security Council (MGK) meeting later on Tuesday.
He also said that Trump indicated that another call may happen this week.
“If he doesn’t call, I’ll call,” Erdogan said.
The YPG spearheads the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias fighting Islamic State with the help of a U.S.-led coalition.
Turkey regards the YPG as an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), which has fought a decades-long insurgency in Turkey and is designated a terrorist group by Ankara, the United States and European Union.


BEIJING (Reuters) - In Xinjiancun, a ramshackle village of migrant workers on the far southern fringe of Beijing, demolition machinery tears into buildings as residents drag out the last of their belongings under the gaze of police and security staff.
A citywide fire safety blitz prompted by a deadly blaze this month is forcing thousands of migrant workers out of their homes and businesses, igniting unusually direct criticism of city government measures seen by some people as unfairly targeting the vulnerable underclass.
Beijing’s municipal government launched the 40-day “special operation” targeting fire code and building safety violations after a Nov. 18 apartment fire in Xinjiancun killed 19, almost all of them migrants.
The Beijing government said it had acted on more than 25,000 violations in the operation’s first week, which it described as purely “for the lives and safety of the people”. Tens of thousands of people are believed to be affected, activists said.
While restaurants and shops not up to code in more affluent areas have not been immune, the safety blitz has mostly targeted outlying parts of Beijing where enforcement of construction codes has tended to be lax, and where migrant workers congregate due to cheaper rent.
“To say that this special operation is to drive out the ‘low-end population’ is irresponsible and baseless,” the Beijing government said in a statement carried by state media on Sunday.
“Some of the migrant population choose these places to work and live in, but they don’t understand the danger they’re in.”
One resident said her family of six, including her nine-month old grandson, had been suddenly rendered homeless, spending the previous night huddled in the back of their minivan in sub-freezing temperatures.
“We are also Chinese people. Why are we being treated this way?” said the woman, from central China’s Hubei province.
“What are we to do, where can we go to raise grievances? No one dares to,” she said, asking not to be identified due to the sensitivity of the matter.
Local authorities attributed the Nov. 18 blaze to faulty electrical wiring in an illegally modified two-storey property housing shops and a cold storage facility in the basement, with the top floor subdivided into small, crowded living quarters.
More than a dozen residents of Xinjiancun said at least 50 uniformed security guards and “chengguan” - an urban management force which assists police - had smashed their stores’ signage and issued threats to ensure compliance.
The Beijing city government and the Daxing district government, which covers the southern part of the city, did not respond to requests for comment.
Xia Xiaocong, a 44-year-old supermarket owner, said he was told to move everything out and leave within 48 hours, after security guards cut his electricity and trashed the front of his shop.
“I told them I have all the legal documents, and they said you have to close and get lost,” he told Reuters inside the damaged store, its shelves emptied. Residents and supermarket staff confirmed details of Xia’s account.
In Dingfuzhuang, a logistics hub in Beijing’s east, residents on Saturday said authorities had cut off electricity and running water to force them out.
“In 2008, it was ‘Beijing Welcomes You’,” said Liang Yinghui, from northern Hebei province, referring to the slogan of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. “Now, in 2017, Beijing loathes you, and wants to throw you out.”
An open letter to the Chinese government from more than 100 prominent academics, lawyers and intellectuals said the measures against Beijing’s migrant population were “illegal, unconstitutional and seriously trampled on human rights”.
Such open criticism of government is increasingly rare as officials have clamped down on various aspects of civil society under President Xi Jinping.
Some non-profit groups that sought to offer assistance said they have been obstructed by police, with their online advertisements blocked by censors.
Tongzhou Jiayuan, a private community service centre in Beijing’s Tongzhou district, said it was shut by police soon after posting a notice on social media welcoming struggling migrant workers to come and stay.
On Monday, Beijing party secretary Cai Qi said authorities should have given more time for residents to relocate and called for the operation to be carried out in a more orderly fashion, according to the official Beijing Daily.
Some 8.23 million Beijing residents came from outside the capital, almost 40 percent of its population of nearly 22 million, according to a 2016 report by the state-run Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
While the city says the clean-up is for safety, it is also consistent with policies to control growth. In September, the central government approved Beijing’s plan to cap its population at 23 million in 2020.
Ma Zhitao, 32, who arrived in Beijing at the start of the year to work as a labourer in the hope of providing a better life for his 10-year-old son back home in rural Shaanxi province, said he was now forced to return home.
“I thought it would be different,” said Ma, whose power and water had been cut off at his home in Dingfuzhuang.
“It’s the capital after all.”


NAIROBI (Reuters) - Burundi’s main opposition grouping said it is boycotting peace talks that resumed on Tuesday in Tanzania, leaving little chance that the negotiations will end simmering political violence that has claimed hundreds of lives.
Burundi has been gripped by unrest since April 2015, when President Pierre Nkurunziza announced he would stand for a third term, which the opposition said violated the constitution as well as a 2005 peace deal that ended the civil war.
He won a vote largely boycotted by the opposition, but protests sparked a government crackdown that has killed more than 700 people, displaced over 400,000 to neighbouring countries and left the economy moribund.
The International Criminal Court is investigating whether pro-government forces committed war crimes including murder, torture and rape. Burundi, which has withdrawn from the court, is refusing to recognise the investigation.
Exiled opposition grouping CNARED said former Tanzanian president Benjamin Mkapa, who is facilitating the Nov. 28-Dec. 8 round of talks in Arusha, had not invited them.
“We have always asked the facilitator to invite CNARED as an opposition bloc, but he has refused and rather decided to select some of our members who will take part to the dialogue without our consent,” said CNARED spokesman Pancrace Cimpaye.
At the end of October, Burundi’s cabinet adopted draft legislation seeking to change the current constitution to allow Nkurunziza to run for a fourth term in the 2020 election.
The proposed amendments, likely to go to a referendum by next year, seek to abolish the two-term limit and lengthen the presidential terms to seven years.
CNARED says amending the constitution will worsen the crisis.


SEOUL/BEIJING (Reuters) - China will allow travel agencies in Beijing and Shandong to partly resume sales of group tours to South Korea, in a sign of thawing relations between the nations that have been locked in a year-long diplomatic standoff.
However, executives from tour agencies in the regions said they had been told not to include in their travel packages units of South Korean retail-to-chemicals giant Lotte Group - which provided land for the installation of a U.S.-backed anti-missile system that Beijing vehemently opposed.
China had banned all group tours to the neighbouring country since March in the wake of South Korea’s decision to install the U.S. Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system. Beijing worries the THAAD’s powerful radar can penetrate Chinese territory.
In South Korea, a halving of inbound Chinese tourists in the first nine months of the year cost the economy $6.5 billion in lost revenue based on the average spending of Chinese visitors in 2016, official data shows.
But a late October agreement between the countries to move past the dispute had boosted hopes group tours may be allowed in the near future.
China National Tourism Administration will allow resumption of only over-the-counter sales of package tours from Beijing and Shandong to South Korea, Park Yong-hwan, deputy director at Korea Tourism Organization, and executives at Chinese travel agencies said on Tuesday.
Online sales of package tours, and chartering flights or cruise trips are still banned, Park said.
According to the executives at travel agencies, restrictions on including Lotte Group units, such as Lotte Duty Free, in tour packages also remain. The executives declined to be identified due to the sensitivity of the matter.
Lotte, South Korea’s No.5 conglomerate, has faced a major setback in the wake of deteriorating bilateral relations, with most of its hypermarkets in China being shut down after fire inspections.
The South Korean travel ban is expected to be be in place for other Chinese regions for now and be gradually lifted going forward, Park said.
Shares in South Korean tourism and retail companies rallied after the news of the partial lifting of the ban, first reported by Yonhap earlier in the day.
Asiana Airlines gained 3.1 percent and duty free store operator Hotel Shilla rose 2.8 percent. Casino operator Paradise rose 2.2 percent, while cosmetics maker LG Household & Health Care added 3.7 percent.


NAIROBI,  (Reuters) - Kenyan police fired teargas on Tuesday to try to control a crowd of thousands of people trying to force their way into a stadium to attend the inauguration of President Uhuru Kenyatta.
In a separate part of the capital city, where opposition leader Raila Odinga had planned to hold a rival meeting, police sealed off the area and lobbed teargas at opposition supporters trying to gather there.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A research arm of the U.S. intelligence community just wrapped up a competition to see who could develop the best facial recognition technology. The challenge: identify as many passengers as possible walking on an aircraft boarding ramp.
Of all the entries, it was a Chinese start-up company called Yitu Tech that walked away with the $25,000 prize this month, the highest of three cash awards.
The competition was one of many examples cited in a report by a U.S.-based think tank about how China’s military might leverage its country’s rapid advances in artificial intelligence to modernize its armed forces and, potentially, seek advantages against the United States.
“China is no longer in a position of technological inferiority relative to the United States but rather has become a true peer (competitor) that may have the capability to overtake the United States in AI,” said the report, written by Elsa Kania at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) and due to be released on Tuesday.
Future U.S.-China competition in AI, Kania wrote, “could alter future economic and military balances of power.”
Alphabet Inc’s (GOOGL.O) Executive Chairman Eric Schmidt, who heads a Pentagon advisory board, delivered a similar warning about China’s potential at a recent gathering in Washington.
Schmidt noted that China’s national plan for the future of artificial intelligence, announced in July, calls for catching up to the United States in the coming years and eventually becoming the world’s primary AI innovation centre.
“I‘m assuming that our lead will continue over the next five years, and that China will catch up extremely quickly. So, in five years we’ll kind of be at the same level, possibly,” Schmidt said told the conference, which was also hosted by CNAS.
An unreleased Pentagon document, viewed by Reuters, warned earlier this year that Chinese firms were skirting U.S. oversight and gaining access to sensitive U.S. AI technology with potential military applications by buying stakes in U.S. firms.
In response, a bipartisan group of lawmakers in the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives this month introduced bills to toughen U.S. foreign investment rules.
The CNAS report noted the Chinese acquisitions and said Beijing faces hurdles to forging a domestic AI industry to rival the United States, including recruiting top talent.
Schmidt, however, expressed confidence in China’s ability.
“If you have any kind of ... concern that, somehow their system and educational system is not going to produce the kind of people that I‘m talking about, you’re wrong,” he said.
BATTLEFIELD ‘SINGULARITY’
Artificial intelligence, which promises to revolutionise transportation with the advent of self-driving cars and bring major advances to medicine, is also expected to have military applications that could alter the battlefield.
Some machine learning technology is already being applied to a Pentagon project that aims to have computers help sift through drone footage, reducing the work for human analysts.
China’s People’s Liberation Army is also investing in a range of AI-related projects and PLA research institutes are partnering with the Chinese defence industry, the report said, citing publicly available documents.
“The PLA anticipates that the advent of AI could fundamentally change the character of warfare,” the report said.
Kania acknowledged that much of her research was speculative, given the early stages of AI development and policies surrounding it in China and elsewhere.
Still, she said some PLA thinkers anticipate the approach of a “singularity” on the battlefield, where humans can no longer keep pace with the speed and tempo of machine-led decisions during combat, the report said.
The report quoted PLA Lieutenant General Liu Guozhi, the director of the Central Military Commission’s Science and Technology Commission, warning “(we) must ... seize the opportunity to change paradigms.”
Although Pentagon policy currently calls for a human role in offensive actions carried out by machines, it was unclear whether China’s People’s Liberation Army would adopt such a policy, the report said.
“The PLA may leverage AI in unique and perhaps unexpected ways, likely less constrained by the legal and ethical concerns prominent in U.S. thinking,” Kania wrote.


BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Water entered the snorkel of the Argentine submarine ARA San Juan, causing its battery to short-circuit before it went missing on Nov. 15, a navy spokesman said on Monday as hope dwindled among some families of the 44-member crew.
The San Juan had only a seven-day oxygen supply when it lost contact, and a sudden noise was detected that the navy says could have been the implosion of the vessel. Ships with rescue equipment from countries including the United States and Russia were nonetheless rushing to join the search.
Before its disappearance, the submarine had been ordered back to its Mar del Plata base after it reported water had entered the vessel through its snorkel, causing a battery short circuit, navy spokesman Enrique Balbi told a news conference.
“They had to isolate the battery and continue to sail underwater towards Mar del Plata, using another battery,” Balbi said.
After contact with the San Juan was lost, the Vienna-based Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty Organization, an international body that runs a global network of listening posts designed to check for secret atomic blasts, detected a noise the navy said could have been the submarine’s implosion.
The search for the 65-meter (213-foot) diesel-electric submarine is concentrated in an area some 430 km (267 miles) off Argentina’s southern coast. The effort includes ships and planes manned by 4,000 personnel from 13 countries, including Brazil, Chile and Great Britain.
Among the crew’s family members, fissures started appearing on Monday between those who refuse to give up hope and those who say it is time to accept that their loved ones will not come back alive.
Some relatives have said they are focusing on the lack of physical evidence of an implosion and the possibility that the submarine might have risen close enough to the ocean surface to replenish its oxygen supply after it went missing.
But Itati Leguizamon said she believed her husband, crew member German Suarez, had died.
”There is no way they are alive,“ she told reporters, her voice shaking and eyes welling with tears. ”It is not that I want this. I love him. I adore him. He left his mother and sister behind, but there is no sense in being stubborn.
“The other families are attacking me for what I am saying,” she said, “but why have they not found it yet? Why don’t they tell us the truth?”


BEIJING/TAIPEI (Reuters) - China on Tuesday sentenced Taiwanese rights activist Li Ming-che to five years in prison for subverting state power, prompting Taiwan’s ruling political party to label the verdict “totally unacceptable”.
Li, a community college lecturer and an activist at a human rights non-governmental organisation in Taiwan, went missing while on a trip to China in March. Chinese authorities later charged him with subverting state power.
In the first hearing of Li’s case in September, he confessed to subversion, according to videos of the hearing, though his wife refused to recognise the court’s authority.
Tuesday’s verdict was handed down by the Yueyang City Intermediate People’s Court in central Hunan province, according to a video of proceedings released by the court’s social media account. A mainland Chinese rights activist, Peng Yuhua, tried alongside Li, was sentenced to seven years for the same crime.
Taiwan’s ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) said that it was “strongly dissatisfied and regretful” of the result, calling for Beijing to allow Li to return to Taiwan.
Beijing must ensure the health and well-being of Li, respect the law and continue to allow his family to visit him, the DPP said in a statement.
Li’s wife, Li Ching-yu, who had travelled to the mainland from Taiwan to attend her husband’s hearing, was in attendance when the verdict was read, according to the videos.
Li Ching-yu said in a statement sent to Reuters by her supporters that her husband had long realised that his rights work came with a cost and that there were “tigers in the mountains”.
“He came to understand early on that he must accept the torment of being made to accept guilt and of being imprisoned,” she said.
Peng had been the main actor in the subversion and Li had been an active participant, the court authorities said in the video.
Both Li and Peng said that they accepted the ruling and would not appeal, according to the court’s video.
Ties between Beijing and Taipei have been strained since  Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen, leader of the independence-leaning Democratic Progressive Party, took office last year.
Tsai’s refusal to state that Taiwan and China are part of one country has angered Beijing, as have her comments about human rights on the mainland.


MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Mexico’s finance minister resigned on Monday to seek the 2018 presidential nomination of the ruling party, anticipating a major break with tradition as it seeks outside help to clean up its tarnished image and stay in office for another six years.
Jose Antonio Meade had been widely expected to run for the centrist Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), whose credibility has been seriously undermined by corruption scandals, gang violence and accusations of electoral fraud.
Meade is not a PRI member, and his reputation for honesty has persuaded many party grandees that he is the best bet to take on the front-runner in the July 2018 presidential race, the leftist former mayor of Mexico City, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador.
PRI hopefuls can register from Dec. 3, and early indications suggested Meade would not face any major challengers. The PRI will formally elect its candidate on Feb. 18.
He was warmly received by party members on a whistle-stop tour of organizations affiliated to the PRI in Mexico City on Monday. All the other early PRI favourites for the presidency expressed their support for him on Twitter.
Soft-spoken and measured in tone, Meade, 48 first entered the Cabinet under the previous centre-right administration of the National Action Party, or PAN. His ability to draw votes from other parties is viewed as one of his principal assets.
“He’ll be an attractive candidate for those who don’t necessarily support the PRI,” tweeted Daniel Karam, who headed the Mexican Social Security Institute during Meade’s initial Cabinet stint under the PAN.
Eager to mend its reputation, the PRI changed its statutes in August to make it easier for outsiders to run for the job the party has held for most of the past century.
At an event at his official residence, President Enrique Pena Nieto said Harvard-educated former World Bank official Jose Antonio Gonzalez Anaya would leave his job as chief executive of state oil company Pemex to replace Meade in the Finance Ministry.
In a brief address at the ministry afterward, Meade said he would run for the presidency “after 20 years of serving my country continuously with integrity and honesty.”
Lopez Obrador, twice runner-up for the presidency, has railed relentlessly for years against government graft. He quickly lashed out on Twitter against the PRI as “corrupt” and “predictable” after Meade made his announcement.
Meade remains unknown to much of the Mexican public, and in opinion polls he lags far behind the veteran Lopez Obrador, who has sought to characterize all of the main opposition parties as corrupt extensions of the PRI.
Serving as energy, then finance minister in 2011, Meade became foreign minister when Pena Nieto took office in December 2012. He later switched to the Social Development Ministry before returning to the Finance Ministry last year.
Seen by allies as a discreet and diplomatic official, Meade’s grasp of finance and economics is matched by few in Mexico, and his academic career includes degrees in law and economics as well as an economics doctorate from Yale.
Crucially, argue his supporters, he has avoided the damaging scandals that have engulfed the PRI under Pena Nieto, who cannot constitutionally seek a second six-year term.
“I thank (Meade) for his dedication and commitment and I wish him success in the project he has decided to undertake,” Pena Nieto said at the event at his Los Pinos residence.
TV images showed Meade driving towards Los Pinos behind the wheel of a modest compact car, a frequent prop among Mexican politicians seeking to project the common touch.
Gonzalez Anaya, who is related by marriage to influential former President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, will be replaced at Pemex by Carlos Trevino, a senior executive at the company.


TEGUCIGALPA (Reuters) - A TV host was on course for victory in the Honduran presidential race on Monday, in a dramatic election that upended forecasts of a win for the country’s U.S.-friendly incumbent.
Flamboyant entertainer Salvador Nasralla, 64, was ahead by a 5 point margin with 70 percent of ballots counted, election official Marcos Ramiro Lobo told Reuters.
That was too large a lead for his rival, centre-right President Juan Orlando Hernandez, to overcome, Lobo said.
He did not say what percentage of the vote Nasralla had, but an initial tally of more than half of ballots early on Monday gave Nasralla 45 percent, and Hernandez 40 percent.
The TV star helms a left-right coalition called the Opposition Alliance Against the Dictatorship. Thousands of his young supporters poured onto the streets of the capital Tegucigalpa on Monday waving red flags and cheering.
“Thank you so much,” Nasralla told them outside the election tribunal office. “I don’t have words for the emotion I feel right now.”
One of the poorest nations in the Americas, Honduras has been blighted with years of gang violence, giving it one of the world’s highest murder rates. Nasralla tapped into widespread disillusionment about the country’s future, particularly among exasperated young voters.
“We want democracy, we want human rights to be respected and we want more jobs, so that there are more opportunities for the young so we can live dignified lives,” said 25-year-old Samuel Padilla, a trained mechanic who had not found work in two years.
Nasralla is backed by former President Manuel Zelaya, who was ousted in a 2009 coup after he proposed a referendum on his re-election. The dramatic comeback by the one-time leftist appears likely to raise concerns in Washington.
Hernandez has not yet conceded defeat, however.
He said on Twitter on Monday evening that he was waiting for officials to ratify “the resounding triumph of the presidential election.”
“This isn’t over until it’s over!” he said.
A second tribunal official told reporters more detailed results could come later on Monday, or even Tuesday.
But Lobo said Nasralla now appeared certain to win.
“The technical experts here say that (Nasralla’s lead) is irreversible,” he told Reuters.
On Monday afternoon, the unrelated Luis Zelaya, the third-placed candidate, said Nasralla was the country’s new president and urged Hernandez, 49, to accept defeat.
Hernandez was the longtime favourite, credited with lowering the murder rate and lifting economic growth. But he has also been hurt by accusations of ties to illicit, drug-related financing, which he denies.
His attempt to clinch a second term, which was made possible by a 2015 Supreme Court decision on term limits, also divided opinion in Honduras.
Washington sees Hernandez as a reliable ally in tackling drug trafficking and gangs, and helping control the flow of migrants to the United States. Nasralla at the helm would take the United States into unfamiliar territory.
“Now he can back up his anti-corruption positions. Or not,” a U.S. official said, noting the U.S. government expects to work “co-operatively in a number of ways” with Nasralla.
The United States has longstanding military ties to Honduras and few ideological allies among the current crop of Central American presidents. In Mexico, leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador leads opinion polls for next year’s presidential election.
Nasralla describes himself as a centrist, who “takes the best of socialist ideology.” He says he supports free markets and views private enterprise as the best way of creating jobs and slowing migration.
“We are going to have good relations with the United States and all countries,” he said before the election, adding he was happy to work with U.S. President Donald Trump.
Many believe coalition coordinator Zelaya is the true force behind Nasralla. Although Zelaya is viewed as a traditional Latin American leftist, Honduras business figures say he is a political opportunist who often reneges on his word.
The son of a wealthy landowner, Zelaya nearly returned to political prominence in the 2013 election, when his wife lost to Hernandez. Zelaya, who wears a big black moustache and cowboy hats, is a larger than life personality whose supporters fete him for having boosted minimum wages.
Nasralla is one of the country’s best known faces as the host of game shows that feature scantily-clad women by his side. With his booming voice and finely coiffed hair, he looked poised to be the latest entertainment star in the Americas to breach the upper echelons of political power.
In Guatemala, former TV comedian Jimmy Morales won the presidency in 2015, but his support has eroded after he clashed with a U.S.-backed anti-graft body investigating his family.


DUBLIN (Reuters) - Ireland was on the verge of a snap election on Monday after the opposition party propping up the minority government said the deputy prime minister’s refusal to quit would force the country to the polls next month.
The political crisis that deepened dramatically late on Monday has left the country’s two main parties with less than 24 hours to head off a general election in a dispute that cast a shadow over a key Brexit summit next month.
Ireland will play a major role at the meeting, telling EU leaders whether it believes sufficient progress has been made on the future of the border between EU-member Ireland and the British province of Northern Ireland.
The pressure on Deputy Prime Minister Frances Fitzgerald of Varadkar’s Fine Gael party mounted on Monday following the release of fresh documents about her disputed handling of a police whistleblower who alleged corruption in the force.
Fianna Fail, whose backing Varadkar requires from the opposition benches to keep his government functioning, has said it will move a motion of no confidence in Fitzgerald at 2000 GMT on Tuesday unless she quits, a position that hardened on Monday.
“I think the Tanaiste (deputy prime minister) should recognise that unless she does stand aside, she is going to force this country into an election nobody wants, that nobody needs and is not in the country’s interests,” senior Fianna Fail MP Jim O‘Callaghan told national broadcaster RTE.
“I don’t see any other method out of this.”
Varadkar has insisted that if the motion is not withdrawn, he will be forced to hold an election before Christmas, a prospect EU officials say would complicate the EU Brexit summit on Dec. 14-15.
A compromise had appeared possible earlier in the day when senior members of both parties struck a more conciliatory tone, but the momentum shifted instantly upon the release of the new documents.
Fitzgerald said last week that she did not recall receiving an email in May 2015 that detailed an attempt to discredit a police whistleblower whose allegations of widespread misconduct in the force cost her predecessor his job as justice minister.
The correspondence released on Monday showed Fitzgerald also received two more emails about the strategy in July 2015, but she resisted calls from all parties to resign, saying an ongoing a judge-led tribunal should judge her conduct in January.
A spokesman for Varadkar, who is due to meet Fianna Fail leader Micheal Martin again on Tuesday morning in a bid to avoid the election, said the government was standing by Fitzgerald.
However some Fine Gael members who spoke on condition of anonymity were livid, and local media reported that a number of the party’s ministers privately said she must step down.
The headline on the front page of Tuesday’s Irish Examiner newspaper read, “Ministers desert Fitzgerald as pressure rises.”
‘UTTERLY IRRESPONSIBLE’
While an opinion poll on Saturday gave Fine Gael a one-point lead over Fianna Fail and suggested another minority government as the most likely outcome, Dublin City University politics lecturer Eoin O‘Malley said Monday’s events would also hurt them.
“Fine Gael would be going into the election where they are seen to be the belligerent party, probably seen to be the one that caused it. It ... could be a career-ending election for the loser,” O‘Malley said, adding that an election was inevitable unless Fitzgerald quit.
The crisis has erupted at a particularly sensitive point in the Brexit talks.
Foreign Minister Simon Coveney, who continued to support Fitzgerald, reiterated on Monday that not enough progress had been made on the border issue and that he had the full backing of all members states on the EU’s negotiating side.
“We are in the process in the context of Brexit negotiations of ensuring that we influence what are going to be historic decisions for this country... The last thing we need right now is an election in the middle of all that,” he told RTE.
The border is one of three issues Brussels wants broadly resolved before it decides whether to move Brexit talks on to a second phase about trade, as Britain wants, and the Irish crisis steadied sterling on Monday, after it posted its biggest weekly rise in more than a month.
“The next couple of months are crucial for the future of Ireland,” said Kevin O‘Rourke, professor of Economic History at Oxford University, who has written extensively on Ireland’s role in the Brexit talks.
“Provoking an election right now would be utterly irresponsible.”


DENPASAR, Indonesia (Reuters) - Indonesia closed the airport on the tourist island of Bali on Monday and ordered 100,000 residents living near a grumbling volcano spewing columns of ash to evacuate immediately, warning that the first major eruption in 54 years could be “imminent”.
The airport was closed for 24 hours from Monday morning, disrupting 445 flights and some 59,000 passengers, after Mount Agung, which killed hundreds of people in 1963, sent volcanic ash high into the sky, and officials said cancellations could be extended.
(Interactive package on Agung eruptions - tmsnrt.rs/2AayRVh)
“Plumes of smoke are occasionally accompanied by explosive eruptions and the sound of weak blasts that can be heard up to 12 km (7 miles) from the peak,” the Disaster Mitigation Agency (BNPB) said in a statement after raising the alert from three to its highest level of four.
“The potential for a larger eruption is imminent,” it said, referring to a visible glow of magma at Mount Agung’s peak overnight, and warning residents to evacuate a danger zone at a radius of 8-10 km (5-6 miles).
Sutopo, a BNPB spokesman, said there had been no casualties so far and 40,000 people had left the area, but tens of thousands still needed to move.
Video footage shared by the agency showed volcanic mud flows (lahar) on the mountainside. Lahar carrying mud and large boulders can destroy houses, bridges and roads in its path.
Bali, famous for its surf, beaches and temples, attracted nearly 5 million visitors last year, and its airport serves as a transport hub for the chain of islands in Indonesia’s eastern archipelago.
But tourism has slumped in parts of Bali since September when Agung’s volcanic tremors began to increase and the alert level was raised to maximum before being lowered in October when seismic activity calmed.“I‘m really worried. Maybe I’ll go somewhere south that I think will be safe to avoid being trapped by the ashfall,” said Maria Becker, a German tourist staying in Amed, around 15 km (9 miles) from the volcano.
Agung rises majestically over eastern Bali to a height of just over 3,000 metres (9,800 feet). Northeastern Bali is relatively undeveloped compared to the more heavily populated southern tourist hub of Kuta-Seminyak-Nusa Dua.
Indonesia’s Vulcanology and Geological Disaster Mitigation Centre (PVMBG), which is using drones, satellite imagery and other equipment, said predictions were difficult in the absence of instrumental recordings from the last eruption 54 years ago.
In 1963, an eruption of Agung killed more than 1,000 people and razed several villages by hurling out pyroclastic material, hot ash, lava and lahar.
Recordings now show the northeast area of Agung’s peak has swollen in recent weeks “indicating there is fairly strong pressure toward the surface”, PVMBG said.
It warned that if a similar eruption occurred, it could send rocks bigger than fist-size up to 8 km (5 miles) from the summit and volcanic gas to a distance of 10 km (6 miles) within three minutes.
Some analysis, however, suggests the threat should not be as great this time because “energy at Mount Agung’s magma chamber is not as big” and the ash column only around a quarter as high so far as the 20 km (12 miles) reached in 1963, Sutopo said.
(Pacific Ring of Fire - tmsnrt.rs/2AzR9jv)
“CHECK-INS CLOSED”
Bali airport, about 60 km (37 miles) from the volcano, will be closed for 24 hours, its operator said.
Ten alternative airports have been prepared for airlines to divert inbound flights, including in neighbouring provinces.      Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd (VAH.AX) said it was cancelling flights on Tuesday, while Jetstar was offering to exchange Bali bound tickets for other destinations.
Television footage showed hundreds of holidaymakers camped inside the airport terminal, some sleeping on their bags, others using mobile telephones.
“We have been here (in Bali) for three days we are about to leave today, but just found out our flights have been cancelled. We have got no information because the gates, the check-ins, have been closed indefinitely,” said Carlo Oben from Los Angeles.
Cover-More, Australia’s biggest travel insurer, said on its website customers would only be covered if they had bought policies before the volcano alert was first issued on Sept. 18.
Indonesia’s hotel and restaurant association said stranded tourists at member hotels would get one night’s free stay.
The main airport on Lombok, next to Bali, was closed after being open for much of the day, a spokesman said.
Airlines avoid flying when volcanic ash is present because it can damage engines and can clog fuel and cooling systems and hamper visibility.


MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Owners of the Trump International Hotel in Panama City are trying to strip the president’s name from the building and remove his company from management, the Associated Press reported on Monday.
When it was completed in 2011, the 70-floor building was the future U.S. president’s first international hotel venture, a complex including apartments and a casino in a waterfront building that has earned Trump between $30 million and $50 million.
In August this year, Miami-based Ithaca Capital Partners completed its purchase of the hotel amenities and the majority of the units in the Trump International Hotel.
In October, Ithaca proposed removing the Trump Organization’s directors from the hotel board and sending a notice of default to Trump, to begin terminating Trump’s link to the property, after complaints over alleged mismanagement, the AP reported.
“Not only do we have a valid, binding and enforceable long-term management agreement, but any suggestion that the hotel is not performing up to expectations is belied by the actual facts,” the Trump Organization said in a statement.
Ithaca did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Trump licensed his brand to the luxury project and provided hotel management. A Reuters investigation published in November found that alleged fraudster Alexandre Ventura Nogueira had sold between one-third and one-half of the advance sales for the Trump Ocean Club, as the complex including the hotel and apartments is known. (reut.rs/2zOaBYo)
The story, reported in conjunction with U.S. broadcaster NBC News, detailed how Nogueira did business with a Colombian money launderer and two criminals from the former Soviet Union.
Nogueira told Reuters and NBC how, in the project’s early days, he had participated in business meetings with Ivanka Trump and that she had endorsed his recommendation to sell the apartments for a higher price.
Ivanka Trump declined to comment on the allegations, while the Trump Organization said it did not remember Nogueira.
Earlier in November, the Trump Organization said it would give up management of the Trump SoHo hotel in New York City by the end of the year.
The Trump Ocean Club Panama Owners Association could not be reached for comment.


BRASILIA (Reuters) - The United Nations has asked Brazil to send troops to join its peace mission in the Central African Republic, said Jean-Pierre Lacroix, the U.N.’s head of peacekeeping operations, in an interview on Monday.
The U.N. Security Council approved this month the deployment of an additional 900 peacekeepers to protect civilians in the impoverished landlocked nation, where violence broke out between Muslims and Christians in 2013.
Lacroix said violence had increased in the east, largely due to a security vacuum left by the departure of Ugandan troops, who had been part of a separate U.S.-supported African Union task force tracking Lord’s Resistance Army rebels.
The request for troops from Brazil, which has just ended a 13-year mission in Haiti, must be agreed to by President Michel Temer and approved by the Brazilian Congress.
“Brazil has a huge degree of know-how and professionalism and we definitely need those kinds of troops in our peacekeeping operations,” Lacroix told Reuters in Brazil’s capital, ahead of a meeting with the top brass of the country’s armed forces.
The troops did a “fantastic, really exceptional” job in Haiti, where they improved the security situation by establishing a relationship of trust with the Haitian population and exhibited good conduct and discipline, he said.
Brazil is emerging from its worst recession on record and a huge government budget deficit could weigh on a decision to send more troops abroad, though its contribution to peacekeeping has enhanced the South American nation’s international influence.
U.N. peacekeeping forces are facing the pinch of the United States pushing to reduce costs. Washington pays more than 28 percent of the $7.3 billion annual U.N. peacekeeping budget.
In June, the U.N. agreed to $600 million in cuts to more than a dozen missions for the year ending June 30, 2018.
Lacroix said the peacekeeping mission in Ivory Coast had been closed, troop deployment in Sudan’s Darfur was being reduced, and next year the peacekeeping operation in Liberia would be closed down.
“There is an expectation that we be prudent and use our resources in the most cost-effective way we can,” said Lacroix, a French diplomat who has been in the role since April.
The political objectives and efficiency of almost all of the U.N’s 15 peacekeeping operations worldwide were under review, Lacroix said.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Talks on forming a German coalition government were strained on Monday by an unlikely development: an EU vote on a weed-killer.
Chancellor Angela Merkel is expected to launch exploratory talks this week with the Social Democrats (SPD) on renewing their “grand coalition” after she failed to form a three-way alliance with the pro-business Free Democrats and the Greens.
But the centre-left SPD, which controls the Environment Ministry as junior partners of Merkel’s conservatives in the caretaker government, was enraged to learn that Germany voted in favour on Monday of using glyphosate for the next five years.
Germany backed the European Commission proposal to extend the use of the weed-killer after abstaining in previous meetings, defeating ally France in a very tight vote. The SPD party opposes the extension.
SPD parliamentary leader Andrea Nahles blamed the Christian Social Union (CSU), the Bavaria-based sister party of Merkel’s Christian Democrats, who control the Agriculture Ministry.
She suggested that CSU Agriculture Minister Christian Schmidt had made the decision unilaterally, which shows that Merkel had no control over her arch-conservative Bavarian allies.
A source at the chancellery told Reuters that Schmidt had taken the decision alone. Usually the Agriculture and Environment Ministries agreed on a joint position before EU votes on banning substances.
“I see this as a massive breach of trust,” Nahles said. “We see this as a heavy burden. And I hope that this crash course will not continue.”
Environment Minister Barbara Hendricks of the SPD said she had informed Schmidt two hours before the vote that she was opposed to the extension.
Merkel on Monday pressed the SPD to renew the alliance with her conservatives, arguing that the European Union and the wider world urgently needed a stable German government in place.
More than two months after its Sept. 24 national election, Europe’s economic and political powerhouse is still without a government and officials say coalition talks may now properly begin only in the new year.
France’s President Emmanuel Macron, who was elected in May on a platform of pursuing deeper EU integration alongside Germany, had wanted a shorter extension and a rapid phasing out of the product which is a mainstay of farming across the continent.


CAIRO (Reuters) - Islamic State claimed responsibility for a suicide attack that took place on Monday targeting the Nahrawan area southeast of Baghdad, the group’s Amaq news agency said.
The Sunni militant group said it had killed 35 members of Shi‘ite paramilitaries known as Popular Mobilisation Forces but the Interior Ministry had earlier said the attack targeted civilians and did not provide official casualty figures.


JERUSALEM (Reuters) - The Israeli parliament voted on Monday in favour of a draft law barring police from publicising its conclusions in criminal probes -- legislation seen as shielding Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is under investigation for corruption.
The draft must still pass two more parliamentary votes. But if written into law, police would not be allowed to say whether they have found sufficient grounds to charge Netanyahu, keeping the Israeli public in the dark until the attorney-general determines whether the prime minister is to be prosecuted.
The draft law also proposes a one-year jail term for officials who leak findings to the press.
Its two sponsors, confidants of Netanyahu, said the law is meant to protect suspects’ rights and reputation, while the opposition derided it as a blatant attempt to protect Netanyahu and withhold knowledge from the public about his investigations.
“The public doesn’t need to know everything. The public will find out at the end,” Netanyahu’s coalition head, David Bitan told the Knesset television channel.
Netanyahu has said he has no interest in promoting personal legislation but he has not ordered Bitan and his co-sponsor of the bill, David Amsalem, to withdraw the legislation.
Netanyahu is a suspect in two cases, one into alleged meddling in the media industry and the other into gifts he received from rich businessmen. He denies any wrongdoing.
But, if charged, he would come under heavy pressure to resign or could call an election to test whether he still had a mandate.
“This is a Netanyahu law,” said Yair Lapid, leader of the opposition party Yesh Atid, which latest polls show as neck in neck with Netanyahu’s Likud. “It is tailored for very few people. The only people to benefit from it are politicians, mafia heads and politicians who behave like mafia heads.”
All four prime ministers of the past two decades have been suspects in police investigations, but only Ehud Olmert was charged and convicted. He spent 16 months in jail for accepting bribes from real estate developers.
In high-profile cases such as these, police usually say if they have gathered sufficient evidence against the suspects, before handing over to the Justice Ministry, where the Attorney-General and prosecutors decide whether to file charges.
The attorney-general has expressed alarm about the proposed legislation. [L8N1NK5EK]
The two investigations in which Netanyahu is a suspect are known as Case 1000 and Case 2000.
Case 1000 revolves around gifts he received from businessmen, including cigars and champagne. Netanyahu’s lawyers say they were simply presents from long-time friends, with no quid pro quo.
Case 2000 focuses on suspicions Netanyahu negotiated with the publisher of Israel’s best-selling newspaper for better coverage in return for curbs on the competition. The prime minister’s lawyers say Netanyahu never seriously considered any such deal.
Netanyahu has described himself as a victim of a political witch hunt and said of the cases against him: “There will be nothing because there is nothing.”


GENEVA (Reuters) - The Syrian opposition delegation at peace talks in Geneva is aiming for the removal of President Bashar al-Assad and plans to engage his negotiators in serious and direct talks, the head of the opposition delegation Nasr Hariri said on Monday.
Hariri called for major powers, especially Russia, to pressure the Assad government into real negotiations on a political transition followed by a new constitution and free elections, in line with a U.N. roadmap to end the six-year war.
“We stress that political transition which achieves the ousting of Assad at the beginning is our goal,” Hariri told a news conference after arriving in Geneva for a round of U.N.-led talks that is scheduled to start on Tuesday.
“Our goal in the negotiation will be the departure of Bashar al-Assad from the beginning of the transition,” he said.
A breakthrough in U.N.-backed Syria peace talks in Geneva this week seems hardly more likely than in seven failed earlier rounds as Assad pushes for total military victory and his opponents stick by their demand he leave power.
All previous diplomatic initiatives have swiftly collapsed over the opposition demand that Assad must go and his refusal to do so.
The Syrian government delegation, led by its U.N. ambassador and chief negotiator Bashar al-Ja‘afari, failed to arrive in Geneva on Monday when it had been due. It was not clear whether the delegation would arrive on Tuesday, when U.N. mediator Staffan de Mistura is due to meet the opposition.
“We don’t have high hopes, the regime is using delaying tactics to obstruct progress towards a political solution, at a time when the opposition comes with one unified delegation,” Hariri said. “Russia .. .is the only entity capable of bringing the regime to the table of negotiations.”
For many years, Western and Arab countries backed the opposition demand that Assad leave office. However, since Russia joined the war on behalf of Assad’s government two years ago it has become increasingly clear that Assad’s opponents have no path to victory on the battlefield.
The Syrian civil war, now in its seventh year, has killed hundreds of thousands of people and caused the world’s worst refugee crisis, driving 11 million from their homes.
The Syrian government continued its bombing and sieges of areas including 400,000 people in eastern Ghouta, a rebel-held Damascus suburb, Hariri said on Monday.
“We are here for the hundreds of thousands who under siege who are in grave need of humanitarian aid and for hundreds of thousands of detainees who are at the verge of death, suffering but living death every day,” he said.


HARARE (Reuters) - Ousted Zimbabwe finance minister Ignatius Chombo, charged with three counts of corruption for offences that allegedly took place two decades ago, was denied bail on Monday and will be detained in custody until his case is heard on Dec. 8.
Zimbabwe’s new president Emmerson Mnangagwa named Patrick Chinamasa as acting finance minister to replace him.
Chombo, who faces charges including trying to defraud the central bank, was detained after the military seized power in “Operation Restore Legacy”, which it said was meant to remove “criminals” around former president Robert Mugabe.
His lawyer, Lovemore Madhuku, told reporters that he would appeal the magistrate’s ruling in the High Court on Tuesday.
“Their decision was always made up that bail would not be granted here ... We are hopeful that the High Court will show independence,” Madhuku said.
Earlier, he told a packed courtroom that Chombo, who sat impassively throughout the hearing, would deny the charges at his trial and had documentary evidence showing the allegations had no basis.
The magistrate who detained Chombo said the former minister could abscond, influence state witnesses or be the target of a mob attack over the allegations that he abused his position when he was minister of local government over a decade ago.
Chombo, who was appointed finance minister in October, was among members of the G40 political faction allied to Mugabe and his wife, Grace, who were also expelled from the ruling ZANU-PF party. Two ousted ZANU-PF Youth League leaders, Kudzanai Chipanga and Innocent Hamandishe, who were both allied to G-40, were also ordered to be detained until Dec. 8.
Some Mnangagwa supporters have called for unspecified action against G40 but the president has urged citizens not to undertake any form of “vengeful retribution”.
Chombo told the court on Saturday how he was abducted from his home on Nov. 15 by armed men in “soldiers’ uniform” and kept blindfolded for nine days.
He was promoted to the finance portfolio from the interior ministry by Mugabe in an October reshuffle, replacing Chinamasa, who the chief secretary to the president and cabinet said will return to the role until a new cabinet has been appointed.
Zimbabwe is struggling with a severe shortage of the U.S. dollars it uses instead of its own currency.
In his main act as finance minister, Chombo told parliament on Nov. 9 that Zimbabwe’s budget deficit would soar to $1.82 billion or 11.2 percent of gross domestic product this year from an initial target of $400 million.
Mnangagwa, who served Mugabe loyally for decades, was sworn in as president last Friday after the 93-year-old former leader quit under pressure from the military.
He is expected to form a new cabinet this week. Zimbabweans are watching to see Mnangagwa he breaks with the past and names a broad-based government or selects other figures from the Mugabe era’s old guard.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany’s Christmas markets opened on Monday at the start of the holiday season, with security staff on hand and concrete barriers to protect shoppers, nearly a year after an Islamist militant killed 12 people by driving a truck into crowds.
Some 2,600 markets, known for their sparkling Christmas trees and wooden stalls serving candied nuts, sausages, mulled wine and handicrafts, opened across Germany under tighter than usual security. The markets are beloved by Germans and a major tourist attraction for visitors this time of year.
In the city of Bochum in Western Germany, organisers decorate concrete bollards, wrapping them up as Christmas presents with bows to make them appear festive.
In Berlin, Petra Henne, who had been at the market in December last year just half an hour before Tunisian militant Anis Amri drove a hijacked truck into the crowd, came out for the opening this year to enjoy the festivities.
The extra security was “a bit oppressive”, she said. “And it is awful, this violence that you can’t do anything about. But Berliners are on good form and they carry on anyway. What else can one do?”
An interior ministry spokesman said the risk of an attack in Europe and Germany is “continuously high”.
Organisers and business owners had complained that the government was reluctant to share the cost of extra security measures.
“What could be done was done,” said Berlin’s Mayor, Michael Mueller on Monday, noting that those measures still could not guarantee absolute security.
The Alternative for Germany (AfD) far-right party asked members of the public to share pictures showing extra security measures at their local markets and post them on social media in protest against Chancellor Angela Merkel’s decision in 2015 to open Germany’s borders to more than a million asylum seekers.
The AfD blames Merkel’s immigration policy for what it says is a rise in crime and Islamist attacks.
Klaus Schultheis, an expert in German Christmas markets who collects annual national data on the subject, said he knew of only two markets that were cancelled over security concerns.
“Christmas markets are a piece of the German culture that shouldn’t disappear no matter what,” he said. “It goes on.”


(Reuters) - U.S. Senator Al Franken, trying to salvage his political career amid accusations of groping or inappropriately touching women, said on Sunday he does not plan to resign but called himself “embarrassed and ashamed.”
Franken, a Democrat and former comedian who has represented Minnesota in the Senate since 2009, said in a round of media interviews - his first since the allegations surfaced on Nov. 16 - that he looked forward to returning to his job on Monday.
“I‘m embarrassed and ashamed. I’ve let a lot of people down and I‘m hoping I can make it up to them and gradually regain their trust,” Franken told the Minneapolis Star Tribune.
Franken resisted comparisons between his behaviour and that of Roy Moore, the Republican nominee for a U.S. Senate seat from Alabama who has been accused of improper conduct involving teenage girls decades ago.
“I‘m going to take responsibility. I‘m going to be held accountable through the ethics committee,” said Franken, whose behaviour is being investigated by the Senate ethics panel. “And I‘m going to hopefully be a voice in this that is helpful... Again, I respect women. What kills me about this is it gives people a reason to believe I don’t respect women.”
Franken told Minneapolis television station WCCO in another interview that his predicament was “a bitter irony” because he has championed women‘s’ issues and has employed them in both his campaign and Senate offices.
“I’ve put them (women) in the highest jobs in my office,” he said.
In a separate interview with Minnesota Public Radio, Franken, one of the leading liberal voices in the Senate, said has no plans to quit.
When asked if he had considered resigning, Franken said: “No, no. The ethics committee is looking into this and I will cooperate fully with it.”
Pressed about stepping aside and allowing a woman to take his seat, Franken told Minnesota Public Radio, “I‘m committed to working as hard as I can here in the Senate for the people of Minnesota.”
Franken’s office had previously issued statements in which he either apologised or said he could not remember behaving in the manner the women have described. He has not denied any of the allegations.
Franken was first accused of sexual misconduct by radio broadcaster Leann Tweeden. She said Franken had forcibly kissed her during a 2006 USO war zone tour, and a photo showed him with his hands over her chest while she was sleeping.
Four days later, a woman named Lindsay Menz told CNN that Franken had touched her buttocks while the two were being photographed in 2010 at the Minnesota State Fair.
Franken has apologised to Tweeden, and has said he does not remember the incident with Menz. Last week, two other women told the Huffington Post Franken had touched their buttocks in separate incidents. The article did not provide the names of those two accusers.
“I don’t remember these photographs, I don‘t,” Franken told the Star Tribune. “This is not something I would intentionally do.”
“I have been reflecting on this,” Franken told Minnesota Public Radio of the allegations. “I want to be a better man.”
Franken is among a long list of celebrities and politicians who have been accused of sexual misconduct. The recent wave of accusations, some of them dating back decades, began in October.


PARIS (Reuters) - French President Emmanuel Macron on Monday said he would take all measures necessary to ensure that weed-killer glyphosate is banned in France as soon as an alternative is available and at the latest within three years.
Macron announced the move on Twitter after Germany defeated France in a tight vote in Brussels.
The EU vote cleared the use of glyphosate for the next five years after a heated debate over whether the weed-killer originally developed by Monsanto causes cancer. France had pushed for the whole bloc to renew the licence for only three years.
Despite the 5-year extension, EU rules allow France to unilaterally ban the substance. It has already decided to do so for private individuals in 2019.
“I have asked the government to take the necessary measures for the use of glyphosate to be banned in France as soon as alternatives are found, and at the latest in three years. #MakeOurPlanetGreatAgain,” Macron said in his Tweet.
“Five years is too long,” Environment Minister Nicolas Hulot said on RTL radio, adding: “Three years seems to be a reasonable timeframe to get everyone on board.”


PARIS (Reuters) - Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri said on Monday that the  political and militant group Hezbollah must stop interfering in regional conflicts and accept a neutral policy to bring an end to Lebanon’s political crisis.
The Iranian-backed Hezbollah, which forms part of the Lebanese government, is fighting alongside Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in Syria and in Iraq against Islamic State militants.
Gulf monarchies have accused the Shi‘ite group of also supporting the Houthi group in Yemen and of backing militants in Bahrain. Hezbollah denies any activity in Yemen or Bahrain.
Hariri’s main patron is Saudi Arabia, Iran’s main regional rival, which has also intervened in regional conflicts.
“I don’t want a political party in my government that interferes in Arab countries against other Arab countries,” Hariri said in an interview recorded on Monday with French broadcaster CNews.
“I am waiting for the neutrality which we agreed on in the government,” he said. “One can’t say one thing and do something else.”
Hariri shocked Lebanon on Nov 4 by resigning from his post in a statement from Saudi Arabia. His resignation, however, has not yet been accepted.
President Michel Aoun held talks on Monday with other Lebanese political leaders over the future of Hariri’s government but gave no sign whether they discussed Hariri’s demand that the country steer clear of regional turmoil.
“Lebanon cannot resolve a question like Hezbollah which is in Syria, Iraq, everywhere because of Iran. It is a regional political solution that needs to be done,” Hariri said.
“The interference of Iran affects us all. If we want a policy that is good for the region we shouldn’t be interfering.”
He said he was ready to stay on as prime minister if Hezbollah accepted to stick by the state policy of staying out of regional conflicts.
However, he said he would resign if Hezbollah did not keep to that, although consultations so far had been positive.
“I think in the interest of Lebanon, Hezbollah is carrying out a positive dialogue. They know we have to remain neutral in the region.”
He said that if this week’s consultations ended positively he would possibly modify the make-up of the government and added that he was open to elections before next year.


PRAGUE (Reuters) - The outgoing Czech government will submit its resignation when it next meets on Nov. 29, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka said on Twitter on Friday, making way for a new administration following an October parliamentary election.
Czech President Milos Zeman plans to appoint Andrej Babis as prime minister in early December. Babis’s ANO party won last month’s election by a large margin but fell short of a majority. It has yet to find any coalition partners and is still seeking votes to support a minority cabinet.


CARACAS (Reuters) - Just months ago, with crowds of protesters baying on the streets for the resignation of the “dictator” and “murderer,” Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro looked like a goner.
Global opinion hardened against his socialist government, with Washington the first to impose sanctions. Coup rumours spread amid one of the worst economic implosions in modern Latin American history, and there were two botched mini-uprisings.
Yet the unpopular successor to Hugo Chavez has not only survived, he is ending the year on a political high and is even a front-runner for the 2018 presidential election.
The upturn in Maduro’s fortunes began with a surprise victory in last month’s gubernatorial elections, thanks to abstentionism by disillusioned opposition supporters and election conditions stacked in favour of his Socialist Party.
He then seized the initiative by announcing Venezuela’s intention to restructure its more than $120 billion (90.29 billion pounds) foreign debt. The high-stakes moves allows him to blame a U.S.-led “capitalist conspiracy” for hyperinflation and shortages while potentially freeing hard currency to import food and medicines ahead of next year’s vote.
Government sources say a buoyant Maduro is now considering driving home his advantage by bringing forward the normally year-end election to February or March.
The president, so toxic last month that few gubernatorial candidates wanted to be seen with him, might now be his party’s best bet to retain power against an opposition in disarray.
Speculation about alternative candidates - from powerful Socialist Party No. 2 Diosdado Cabello to up-and-coming governor Hector Rodriguez - has quietened in recent days.
“For sure Maduro will be the candidate. How can anyone challenge him?” said Dimitris Pantoulas, a Caracas-based consultant who tracks Socialist Party politics.
“Look at him on TV: He’s bright and happy. He even dances better than before! ‘Chavismo’ has the momentum,” he added, referring to the movement founded by Chavez.
Maduro is taking credit in government circles for pushing through a Constituent Assembly super-body that cemented the socialists’ power - albeit in an election boycotted by the opposition and marred by fraud accusations even from the company running the voting machines - and for breaking the opposition coalition.
With the main parties within the opposition Democratic Unity coalition boycotting next month’s mayoral elections, another win looks likely at the local level.
The 55-year-old leader is already touting his potential 2018 campaign theme: No to the “Yankee” sanctions.
Some believe that was one motivation behind the proposed debt restructuring: to force creditors into pressuring Washington to ease sanctions because they hinder any refinancing of Venezuela’s obligations.
It is also part of Maduro’s strategy with the opposition in talks due to start on Dec. 1 in the Dominican Republic.
“We must demand the Venezuela opposition reach a pact for 2018 to have presidential elections with economic guarantees, an end to U.S. government sanctions and an end to the financial persecution of Venezuela,” Maduro said recently.
The government will also press for the opposition-controlled National Assembly to support debt refinancing, a potential way around sanctions that otherwise prevent U.S. banks from participating.
There has been no sign U.S. President Donald Trump would be willing to ease sanctions. On the contrary, a U.S. official told Reuters recently that Washington was weighing new sanctions in response to Maduro’s crackdown on the opposition.
Though the opposition is trying to rally Venezuelans to oust the socialists once and for all in the 2018 vote, there is no hiding their woeful state.
Leaders struggled to explain the October gubernatorial poll defeat, first blaming fraud then admitting they shot themselves in the foot via abstentionism.
The coalition openly split over the Dec. 10 municipal elections, with major parties opting for a boycott but others deciding to run candidates. That confused strategy - a far cry from their unity in 2015 parliamentary elections - has undercut western pressure on Maduro.
Given that the opposition’s most popular candidates are detained or banned from running, Maduro is goading veteran Democratic Action party leader Henry Ramos - a divisive figure, unpopular with many younger voters and hard-line opposition groups - to contest the 2018 poll.
‘DIFFERENT WAY’?
With an unpopular president potentially facing an unconvincing opposition candidate, next year’s election would seem to be fertile territory for a middle-ground aspirant.
“This is the best time for anyone proposing a different way,” said dissident former ‘Chavista’ Nicmer Evans.
Putting his money where his mouth is, Evans is tramping the streets of Caracas to campaign for a mayorship at the Dec. 10 vote with a new party called New Vision For My Country.
Many Venezuelans say the best president would be Lorenzo Mendoza, the billionaire head of the Polar brewing and food company, whose ratings dwarf mainstream politicians. He, however, has shown little inclination.
Assuming Mendoza remains on the sidelines and no Socialist Party faction displaces a Maduro candidacy, he seems to have a real chance of retaining the presidency despite popularity levels that have been halved during his rule to around 20-25 percent.
A bigger threat than the opposition would appear to be social protests at the economic crisis, or a Zimbabwe-style move from within the military.
Cliver Alcala, a former “Chavista” general who is now an outspoken critic of Maduro, said rank-and-file soldiers were fed up with personal penury and the politicization of their institution.
Even so, he saw little appetite for an uprising and said the military top brass appeared to have a vested interest in supporting Maduro due to the influence he allows them.
“There is more possibility of a popular social outburst due to lack of food and medicine, and the constant abuses of authority,” Alcala said.
That, however, is a cycle Venezuelans have lived through over and over in recent years: violent protests and national shutdowns coming at huge cost to life, property and productivity.
Through it all, Maduro has hung on - and for now is smiling again.


PARIS (Reuters) - Barely six months into office, President Emmanuel Macron is already preparing for his third visit to sub-Saharan Africa. Yet while the energetic young leader is eager to reshape France’s relationship with the continent, old problems die hard.
His Nov. 28-30 trip to Burkina Faso, Ghana and Ivory Coast is aimed at boosting cooperation on education, the digital economy and the environment. The visit will be capped by an EU-Africa summit in Abidjan, when migration will top the agenda.
“Africa is not just the continent of migration and crises. It’s a continent of the future,” the 39-year-old president told French ambassadors in August.
But even then, French forces were being sucked deeper into a years-long battle to quell Islamist militancy in Mali. Last month, a raid by French special forces in the Malian desert illustrated how deep that quagmire is becoming.
French troops stormed an Islamist training camp, killing 15 suspected militants. French officials said the operation was based on intelligence the camp housed Malians who had joined the Islamists. Mali said government soldiers held hostage by the Ansar al-Dine group were among the dead.
As recriminations flew, a defence official spoke of “a real trust problem”. Laurent Bigot, a former under-secretary in the French foreign ministry, was blunt: “Mali is a disaster,” he said. “We’re repeating mistakes made in Iraq and Afghanistan.”
That assessment underlines just how much work Macron faces if he is to strengthen security and migration policy without getting bogged down in costly military ventures. More than 7,000 French troops are already deployed across Africa.
Macron will make his first stop in Ougadougou, Burkina Faso, where he will set out his vision for Franco-African relations in his favoured style - a speech.
Language and tone are critical. French presidents usually make early visits to Africa, but some have misjudged. Nicolas Sarkozy declared “the tragedy of Africa is that the African has not fully entered into history”. The comment has haunted him.
A presidency official said Macron would emphasise education and investing in youth across the continent, themes he has touched on in his first six months in power.
In Ghana, a former British colony where France has ramped up investment, including in oil, telecoms and technology, Macron is to promote the digital economy and a broadening of French education initiatives.
In Ivory Coast, environment will be the main topic, before EU and African leaders meet to discuss security and migration, with both Macron and Germany’s Angela Merkel keen to limit the flow of migrants to Europe by introducing tighter checks and controls on African soil, not in Europe.
Macron’s proposals to bolster African growth and create jobs echo Germany’s call for a “Marshall Plan for Africa”. He also promises to raise France’s aid budget from 0.38 percent of national income to 0.55 percent by 2022.
After French colonialism ended in the 1950s and 60s, France wielded a tight grip over its former dominions, using military might to install leaders in return for French companies securing lucrative contracts -- a policy dubbed “Francafrique”.
But French diplomats say the days of France throwing its weight around for commercial favours are over.
Macron, born months after Djibouti became the last French colony to gain independence, has shown little inclination to revive the old networks that linked French businessmen and intelligence agents with African politicians.
“We have a president who has never known the colonies and never had those close links to the region’s leaders. He has more freedom to say what he thinks,” said one diplomat.
Macron has created an African Presidential Council to help shape his thoughts. Its 11 members are mostly young, dual-national entrepreneurs with backgrounds in art, media, finance and ecology. It reports directly to the president, irking some in diplomatic circles.
France’s shift away from Francafrique has eroded the privileges once enjoyed by companies such as Total, Orange and Areva, just as globalisation has opened the field to China and India.
French business group Medef is lobbying Macron for a greater role for the private sector in his vision for Africa, although some acknowledge French companies face huge competition and can still suffer an image problem.
“Africa is a fast growing continent, business opportunities are not a problem,” said Patrice Fonlladosa, president of Veolia Africa & Middle East and head of Medef’s Africa committee. “The problem is being chosen as the partner of choice.”


PRAGUE (Reuters) - The Prague High Court ruled on Friday that Russian citizen Yevgeniy Nikulin can be extradited to the United States where he is accused of hacking social networks including LinkedIn, a court spokeswoman said.
Czech police arrested Yevgeniy Nikulin in Prague in October 2016 in cooperation with the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Russia also accuses him of a small cyber theft and both countries have requested his extradition, leaving him in a tug-of-war between Washington and Moscow.
Friday’s decision does not end that competition.
The court had earlier ruled Nikulin could be extradited to either United States or Russia, which asked for him only after his arrest on the much older U.S. charges.
Nikulin has in the past rejected all the charges in comments reported by Czech media. His lawyer has also been quoted as saying that there had been no evidence presented by either the United States or Russia.
Nikulin filed a complaint against the possibility of being extradited to the United States, and the court ruled on Friday the complaint was groundless, leaving all options open, court spokeswoman Simona Heranova said.
The decision on whether and where Nikulin will be extradited now lies with Justice Minister Robert Pelikan.
A U.S. federal grand jury in California indicted the 29-year-old Nikulin last year on suspicion of hacking into the U.S.-based social media companies LinkedIn, Dropbox and Formspring in 2012.
LinkedIn has said the case was related to a 2012 breach at the social networking company that it previously said may have compromised the credentials of 100 million users, prompting it to launch a massive password reset operation.
After Nikulin’s arrest in Prague, Russia also asked for his extradition. A Moscow court issued a warrant for his arrest in November 2016 for the alleged theft of $3,450 via Webmoney in 2009, the Czech Justice Ministry said then.
The Russian Foreign Ministry criticised Nikulin’s arrest last year, saying it showed Washington was mounting a global manhunt against Russian citizens.


PRISTINA (Reuters) - Kosovo police arrested three lawmakers on Friday, including the popular main opposition leader whom they handcuffed in the street, after the three failed to appear in court on charges of releasing tear gas in parliament in 2015 and 2016.
Opposition lawmakers obstructed parliament for almost two years by letting off tear gas in the chamber in a protest against a border deal with Montenegro and an EU-brokered agreement with Serbia.
The leader of Kosovo’s biggest opposition party, Vetevendosje Albin Kurti, was seized and handcuffed by police close to parliament building when he was on his way to attend a regular session.
Police used paper spray to disperse several other lawmakers from Kurti’s party who tried to hold onto him and prevent police from taking him away, Kosovo media showed. He was eventually moved into a police van.
Kurti won more votes than any other political candidate and his party came first in June snap elections, but he did not enter the ruling coalition.
Dozens of other MPs have been indicted so far for releasing tear gas in the 120-seat parliament.
“This is the continuation of a massive and wide-ranging persecution that has started against Vetevendosje,” the party president, Visar Ymeri, said.
Last week a court in Pristina sentenced four people, including one member of parliament, to prison terms ranging from two to eight years for taking part in a grenade attack against the parliament building last year. They were all loyalists of Vetevendosje.
Opposition parties oppose the border deal with Montenegro saying the country of 1.8 million is losing land by handing over some 8,000 hectares (19,700 acres).
The opposition is also against a deal signed in 2013 between Pristina and Belgrade as part of an EU-sponsored dialogue that would give more rights to the local Serb minority. They say the deal will practically divide the poor Balkan country on ethnic lines.
Kosovo declared independence from Serbia in 2008, nearly a decade after NATO bombing drove Serb forces from the territory.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia is concerned that Japan is allowing Washington to use its territory as a base for a U.S. military build-up in north Asia under the pretext of countering North Korea, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Friday.
His remarks came at a joint press conference with his Japanese counterpart, Taro Kono, after talks between the two men in Moscow, and prompted Kono to defend Japan’s stance towards North Korea and its ties with the United States.
Japan had wanted to focus on resolving a seven-decade old territorial dispute between the countries but Lavrov’s comments on North Korea cast a shadow over the meeting.
“We are expressing deep concern, with facts to back it up, that Japan along with South Korea is becoming a territory for the deployment of elements of the U.S. global missile defence system which is being rolled out in that region under the pretext of the North Korea threat,” Lavrov said.
“We have no problems directly with Japan, we do not see risks there. We see risks because of the proliferation of a global U.S. missile defence system on the territory of countries that neighbour Russia, including Japan.”
He said that in the past few weeks the United States had conducted military exercises in the region and adopted additional sanctions despite the absence of provocation from Pyongyang.
“We are alarmed that in the last two months when North Korea conducted no tests or rocket launches, it seemed that Washington was not happy about that, and tried to do things that would irritate and provoke Pyongyang,” Lavrov said.
Referring to U.S. officials, he said: “It’s as if they are hoping that they (the North Koreans) will lash out again, and then it would be possible to engage in military options.”
“As you know, the U.S. leadership has said many times that all options are on the table, including military options, and we note that Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, at a meeting with President Trump in early November, said that he supports the American position 100 percent,” Lavrov said.
Japanese Foreign Minister Kono, after listening to Lavrov’s remarks, responded that Japan and its allies were not seeking regime change in North Korea. He said Tokyo had to act to defend itself after Pyongyang test-fired missiles which flew over Japan’s territory.
“This is unprecedented, the most important and most pressing threat not just to Japan and Russia but to the international community as a whole. It’s absolutely unacceptable,” Kono said, speaking through an interpreter.
“We believe it’s necessary to use all possible means and to increase the pressure on North Korea as much as possible to stop its nuclear programme and the rocket launches,” he said.
“Japan welcomes the position of the United States, which is that to protect Japan and South Korea, all means of deterrence will be used.”
Earlier this year, Japan’s Abe expressed hope of a breakthrough in Tokyo’s dispute with Moscow over a group of islands in the Pacific, but that prospect has now dimmed.
The islands are known in Japan as the northern territories and in Russia as the Kurile islands.
At the end of World War Two, Soviet forces took control over the islands from Japan. The island dispute has meant that Moscow and Tokyo have still not signed a formal peace agreement to end war-time hostilities.
Lavrov and Kono said at their talks that they had made progress on measures to boost Russian-Japanese economic cooperation on the islands, and to ease access for Japanese people wanting to visit.
They offered no details about any progress on resolving the core of the dispute, about who has sovereignty over the islands.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Friday progress had been made on confidence-building measures related to a territorial dispute between Moscow and Tokyo.
The measures focussed on easing access for Japanese visitors to the disputed islands in the Pacific, known in Russia as the Kurile Islands and in Japan as the Northern Territories, and boosting economic cooperation in the islands. Lavrov was speaking after talks in Moscow with his Japanese counterpart, Taro Kono.


CAIRO (Reuters) - Egypt’s government has declared three days of mourning after attack on north Sinai mosque killed at least 85 people on Friday, state television said.


LAHORE/ISLAMABAD (Reuters) - A newly freed Pakistani Islamist accused of masterminding a bloody 2008 assault in the Indian city of Mumbai called ousted former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif a “traitor” on Friday for seeking peace with neighbour and arch-foe India.
The release of Hafiz Saeed from house arrest raised fresh questions as to whether Saeed might enter politics to run a new, unregistered political party founded by his supporters.
India and the United States expressed concern at his release, calling for Saeed to be prosecuted over the Mumbai attack that killed 166 people, including Americans.
Saeed, who has a $10 million U.S. bounty on his head, spoke at Friday prayers in a mosque in the city of Lahore after being freed from house arrest by a court that said there was no evidence to hold him.
Saeed was placed under house arrest in January while Sharif was still prime minister, a move that drew praise from India, long furious at Saeed’s continued freedom in Pakistan.
In July, a Supreme Court ruling disqualified Sharif from office over a corruption investigation, though his party still runs the government with a close ally as prime minister.
Saeed, however, said Sharif deserved to be removed for his peace overtures with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
“Nawaz Sharif asks why he was ousted? I tell him he was ousted, because he committed treason against Pakistan by developing friendship with Modi, killers of thousands of Muslims,” Saeed said.
India’s Ministry of External Affairs condemned Saeed’s release, saying it showed Pakistan was not serious about prosecuting terrorists.
A U.S. official said Washington was “deeply concerned” about the release.
“The Pakistani government should make sure that he is arrested and charged for his crimes,” U.S. State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said.
‘NO ALLEGATION PROVED’
Saeed has repeatedly denied involvement in the 2008 Mumbai violence in which 10 gunmen attacked targets in India’s largest city, including two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre and a railway station.
The assault brought nuclear-armed neighbours Pakistan and India to the brink of war.
“I’m happy that no allegation against me was proved,” Saeed told supporters after his release, according to a video released by the Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD) Islamist charity, which he heads.
The United States says the JuD is a front for the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant group, which Saeed founded and which has been blamed for a string of high-profile attacks in India.
Pakistan officially banned the Lashkar-e-Taiba in 2002.
Saeed blamed India for his incarceration in Pakistan, saying “Pakistan’s rulers detained me on the aspiration of Modi because of their friendship with him”.
Saeed has long campaigned in support of Muslim separatists in the Indian-ruled portion of the divided Himalayan region of Kashmir, which Pakistan also claims.
India accuses Pakistan of supporting the LeT and other separatists battling in the Indian part of Kashmir. Pakistan denies that.
While Saeed was under house arrest, his JuD charity launched a political party, the Milli Muslim League (MML), which has won thousands of votes in by-elections.
Senior government and retired military figures say the party has the backing of Pakistan’s powerful military. The military denies any direct involvement in civilian politics.
MML officials have privately said that the party is controlled by Saeed, but it is not clear if Saeed will seek to contest elections or launch a political career.


PARIS (Reuters) - The head of a Saudi-based organisation that for decades was charged with spreading the strict Wahhabi school of Islam around the world has said those times were over and his focus now was aimed at annihilating extremist ideology.
Former justice minister Mohammed al-Issa, appointed secretary-general of the Mecca-based Muslim World League (MWL) just over a year ago, told Reuters during a European tour that his organisation would no longer sit by and let Islam be taken hostage by extremists.
The push for a more moderate Islam underscores efforts by Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to modernise the kingdom, which finances groups overseen by the organisation, and cleave to a more open and tolerant interpretation of Islam.
The ambitious young prince has already taken some steps to loosen Saudi Arabia’s ultra-strict social restrictions, scaling back the role of religious morality police, permitting public concerts and announcing plans to allow women to drive next year.
“The past and what was said, is in the past. What happened in the past and the way in which we worked then, is not the subject of debate,” Issa said in an interview late on Thursday.
“We must wipe out this extremist thinking through the work we do. We need to annihilate religious severity and extremism which is the entry point to terrorism. That is the mission of the Muslim World League.”
Saudi Arabia has used the MWL to export its strict Wahhabi version of Islam since it was set up in 1962 as a bulwark against radical secular ideologies.
The missionary society controls mosques and Islamic centres around the world, which critics say promote hatred and intolerance of other sects and religions - a charge the group has denied.
Issa said the MWL would be much more hands on now and aim to tackle any sign of extremism in areas where it operates, but also if it became aware of any other schools, centres or mosques where an extremist ideology was being propagated.
While he declined to give specific details, a week earlier he was in Geneva where he vowed to reform the city’s largest mosque after French and Swiss authorities raised concerns that it had become a hub of extremism. The mosque is supported by the MWL.
“Every time we spot such a message, we won’t keep our arms crossed, we will do everything to annihilate this ideology,” the 52-year-old said through a translator.
“ONLY THE TRUTH”
“What we are doing and want to do is purify Islam of this extremism and these wrong interpretations and give the right interpretations of Islam,” he said. “Only the truth can defeat that and we represent the truth.”
The emergence of Islamic State in Syria and Iraq with its thousands of foreign fighters has highlighted how Europe in particular has become a breeding ground for angry and fragile people to turn to radical Islam.
In France alone, a string of attacks that saw hundreds of people killed since 2015 were in large part carried out by French Muslims.
Issa said part of his work was to address the difficulties Muslims may have in adapting their religion to non-Muslim nations.
“We try to bring answers to face down these messages that change the reality of Islam. We want to offer the real interpretation of the sacred texts that have been taken hostage and interpreted in a wrong way,” he said.
As part of those efforts, Issa said he was also working with other faiths. After the Lebanese Maronite patriarch made a historic visit to Riyadh last week, Issa visited religious officials at Paris’ landmark Notre Dame Cathedral, but also Paris’ Grand Synagogue.
“We have a common objective to end hatred,” he said. “The Muslim World League really believes that we can accomplish that, and religions are very influential in doing that.”


LONDON (Reuters) - Britain has a constructive relationship with Ireland and will focus on making progress on Brexit negotiations, Prime Minister Theresa May’s spokesman said on Friday.
An Irish election appeared likely after opposition party Fianna Fail submitted a motion of no confidence in the deputy prime minister, which the ruling party considers a breach of a three-year agreement to support prime minister Leo Varadkar’s government.
“We feel that we have a constructive relationship with Ireland, and we will continue to talk with them regularly, as we do with the other EU27, and we will continue to focus on making progress in the negotiation,” May’s spokesman said, when asked about the political uncertainty in Dublin.


BEIRUT (Reuters) - Top Lebanese Druze politician Walid Jumblatt on Friday criticised the way Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri had been treated by “some Saudi circles”, the first time he has appeared to direct blame at Riyadh over Hariri’s resignation this month.
Jumblatt also condemned Iranian “dictates”, an apparent response to a statement by the commander of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards this week that disarming of the Iran-backed Lebanese group Hezbollah was out of the question.
Lebanese officials say Saudi Arabia put Hariri under effective house arrest in Riyadh and forced him to declare his resignation on Nov. 4. Saudi Arabia has denied holding Hariri against his will or forcing him to resign.
Hariri shelved his resignation on Wednesday after returning to Beirut this week following an intervention by France.
His resignation had thrust Lebanon to the forefront of the regional tussle between the Sunni monarchy of Saudi Arabia and Shi‘ite Islamist Iran.
“As Lebanese disapproved the unaccustomed way that Sheikh Saad was dealt with by some Saudi circles, we reject this Iranian diktat from Mohammad Ali Jafari, commander of the Revolutionary Guards,” Jumblatt wrote.
He appeared to be referring to Jafari’s comment that disarming the Iran-backed Lebanese group Hezbollah was out of the question.
“The Lebanese have enough experience and knowledge to deal with their affairs through dialogue. We do not want dictates from across the borders that go against their interests,” Jumblatt said.
Announcing his decision to suspend his resignation, Hariri stressed Lebanon must stick by its stated policy of staying out of regional conflicts, a reference to Hezbollah whose regional military role is a source of deep concern in Saudi Arabia.


HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe’s former president Robert Mugabe was granted immunity from prosecution and assured that his safety will be protected in his home country under a deal that led to his resignation, sources close to the negotiations said on Thursday.
Mugabe, who had led Zimbabwe from independence in 1980, stepped down on Tuesday after the army seized power and the ruling party turned against him. Emmerson Mnangagwa, the former vice president sacked by Mugabe earlier this month, is set to be sworn in as president on Friday.
A government source said Mugabe, who is 93 and was the world’s oldest serving head of state, told negotiators he wanted to die in Zimbabwe and had no plans to live in exile.
“It was very emotional for him and he was forceful about it,” said the source, who is not authorised to speak on the details of the negotiated settlement.
“For him it was very important that he be guaranteed security to stay in the country...although that will not stop him from travelling abroad when he wants to or has to.”
Mugabe resigned as parliament began a process to impeach him, sparking wild celebrations in the streets. His sudden fall  after 37 years in power was triggered by a battle to succeed him that pitted Mnangagwa against Mugabe’s much younger wife Grace.
“The outgoing president is obviously aware of the public hostility to his wife, the anger in some circles about the manner in which she conducted herself and approached ZANU-PF party politics,” a second source said.
“In that regard, it became necessary to also assure him that his whole family, including the wife, would be safe and secure.”
Mugabe had clung on to power for a week after the military intervened. He angered many Zimbabweans when he did not resign in a televised address on Sunday as many had anticipated.
The government source said the tipping point for Mugabe was the realisation that he would be impeached and ousted in an undignified way. “When the process started, he then realised he had lost the party,” the source said.
Mugabe will receive a retirement package that includes a pension, housing, holiday and transport allowance, health insurance, limited air travel and security.
The elderly ex-president was “rugged and drained” by events of the past week and may travel to Singapore for medical checks in the coming weeks, the source said. He had been due to leave for the Southeast Asian country in mid-November before the military put him under house arrest.
Mugabe has maintained that he leads a frugal life and that he does not possess any wealth or properties outside Zimbabwe.
But last month a legal quarrel between Grace and a Belgian-based businessman over a $1.3 million diamond ring lifted a veil on the wealthy lifestyle of Mugabe and his wife, nicknamed “Gucci Grace” for her reputed dedication to shopping.
In Zimbabwe, Mugabe runs a dairy business and the family has several farms while local and foreign media have reported that Grace has bought properties and luxury cars in South Africa.
Addressing a cheering crowd in Harare on Wednesday night,  Mnangagwa said Zimbabwe was entering a new stage of democracy.
He had returned to the country earlier in the day, having fled for his safety when Mugabe sacked him as vice president two weeks ago to smooth a path to the succession for Grace.
“The people have spoken. The voice of the people is the voice of God,” Mnangagwa told thousands of supporters gathered outside the ruling ZANU-PF party’s offices in the capital.
On Thursday, Mnangagwa urged the country’s citizens not to undertake any form of “vengeful retribution”.
Some of his supporters have been calling for unspecified action against the G40 group that backed Mugabe and his wife.
The army appears to have engineered a trouble-free path to power for Mnangagwa, who was for decades a faithful lieutenant of Mugabe and member of his elite.
His own human rights record also stirs hostility in many Zimbabweans.
Mnangagwa was Mugabe’s state security minister in the 1980s when a Korean-trained army brigade cracked down on the minority Ndebele, who supported the PF-ZAPU party of Mugabe’s then-main rival Joshua Nkomo.
Rights groups say up to 20,000 people died during the operation, which Mugabe later said was a moment of madness.   Mnangagwa denied responsibility in an interview with Britain’s New Statesman last December.
Restoring Zimbabwe’s fortunes and international standing will be a challenge. Human rights abuses and flawed elections prompted many Western countries to impose sanctions in the early 2000s that further damaged the economy, even with Chinese investment to soften the blow.
Staging clean elections next year will be key to winning fresh funds.
In its first official comments since Mugabe resigned, the opposition Movement for Democratic Change said it was cautiously optimistic a Mnangagwa presidency would not “mimic and replicate the evil, corrupt, decadent and incompetent Mugabe regime”.
Zimbabwe’s bourse, which had been on a rapid rise, lost $6 billion during the military intervention as its main index fell by 40 percent. Analysts say it will fall even further before recovering.
Zimbabwe was once one of Africa’s most promising economies but suffered decades of decline as Mugabe pursued policies that included the violent seizure of white-owned commercial farms and money-printing that led to hyperinflation.
Most of its 13 million people remain poor and face currency shortages and sky-high unemployment, something Mnangagwa promised to address.
An International Monetary Fund official said Zimbabwe’s economic situation remained “very difficult” as sustainable growth is threatened by high government spending, an untenable foreign exchange regime and inadequate reforms. Immediate action is critical, Gene Leon, IMF mission chief for Zimbabwe said.
Britain’s Minister for Africa, meanwhile, said the former colonial power wants Zimbabwe’s new rulers to place the country on a more democratic and prosperous path.
“Zimbabweans suffered for too long as a result of Mugabe’s ruinous rule,” Minister Rory Stewart said on arriving in Harare.


NAIROBI (Reuters) - Hours after Zimbabwe’s Robert Mugabe was forced out after 37 years in power, Uganda’s president, another former guerrilla in office for more than three decades, was tweeting about pay rises for civil servants and bright prospects for his army tank crews.
Supporters of long-serving African leaders dismiss parallels with Zimbabwe, where Mugabe’s former deputy - sacked during a power struggle with Mugabe’s wife - is about to take power with military and public backing.
But Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni’s tweets, which come amid rising anger at the 73-year-old’s attempts to prolong his rule, suggest he is looking south and wondering about his own fate.
“Now that the economic situation in Uganda is improving, the government will be able to look into raising of salaries of soldiers, public servants, health workers and teachers and also deal with institutional housing,” Museveni tweeted on Wednesday.
It was unclear what improvement he meant. Uganda’s faltering economy is growing too slowly to absorb a booming population of 37 million. The number of citizens spending less than a dollar a day has surged to 27 percent, the statistics office reported in September, up from 20 percent five years ago.
Museveni’s office was not immediately available for comment on the tweets, but John Baptist Nambeshe, a ruling party lawmaker who opposes the president’s attempts to have an age limit on his post lifted, said there was no coincidence.
“The timing couldn’t have been coincidental. It was to underscore his might, that probably the military is still solidly behind him, unlike in Zimbabwe,” Nambeshe told Reuters.
Museveni may not be alone.
Several African leaders have faced popular opposition in recent years, from Togo, where thousands protested this autumn, to Gabon, where riots broke out last year after President Ali Bongo was re-elected in a disputed vote.
Mugabe’s fall has raised hopes among opposition politicians that other long-serving leaders will fall, but also stoked fears that those who replace them may be no better.
President since 1986, Museveni is among Africa’s longest-serving leaders. They include Equatorial Guinea’s Teodoro Obiang, president for 38 years; Cameroon’s Paul Biya, president for 35 years; Congo’s Denis Sassou Nguesso, president for two stints totalling 33 years.
The Gnassingbé family have ruled Togo and the Bongo family have ruled Gabon for half a century, while the Kabila family have run the Democratic Republic of Congo for 20 years.
Some countries allow only two presidential terms, but several have rolled back such legislation.
In Cameroon, Biya scrapped term limits and cracked down on the opposition. In Congo, Nguesso jailed an opposition leader this year for protesting against removal of term limits.
Franck Essi, secretary-general of the opposition Cameroon Peoples’ Party, said opposition movements were closely watching events in Zimbabwe.
“Leaders must put in place mechanisms for a democratic and peaceful transition that will allow new leadership. If not, sooner or later, the people who are suffocating will wake up,” he said.
Some places have already seen change. Burkina Faso’s Blaise Compaore was ousted by protests in 2014 as he tried to change the constitution and extend his decades-long rule. In January, Gambia’s erratic ruler Yahya Jammeh fled after regional pressure ended his 22-year reign.
Angolan president Jose Eduardo dos Santos stepped down this year after four decades in power; his handpicked successor has pushed out some key dos Santos allies.
For many nations, a Zimbabwe-style switch in the loyalties of the armed forces or a rift in the inner circle represents one of the few ways that rulers might be forced from power. Despite Zimbabwe’s well-established opposition, change didn’t come until Mugabe’s inner circle fell out over his succession plans, and the military put him under house arrest.
Brigitte Adjamagbo-Johnson, a top Togolese opposition official, said they had hoped for a Zimbabwean-type change of power where the military came over to their side.
”We’d wanted the Togolese army to fight alongside us. We were moved seeing that Zimbabwe’s army and civilian population were all in the streets dancing. That’s what we want in Togo,“ she said. ”There will be change in Zimbabwe this year and there will be in Togo too.”
“THEIR TURN WILL COME”
A slump in commodities prices has deprived some nations of the resources they have traditionally used to muffle protests. In some cases, corruption has also emptied state coffers.
In central Africa, Congo’s Kabila has repeatedly postponed elections after refusing to step down at the end of his term last year, sparking deadly protests.
Jean-Pierre Kambila, Kabila’s deputy chief of staff, tweeted that Zimbabwe’s protests were a colonial fantasy.
“A fabricated demonstration dreamed up by those who do not accept the liberation of Africa. Other Mugabes will be born. Nothing to worry about,” he wrote.
Uganda, a key Western ally set to begin exporting its substantial oil reserves, removed term limits in 2005 to extend Museveni’s rule.
The east African nation has seen far less violence under Museveni than the two dictators who preceded him. But now tensions are rising as social services crumble and parliamentarians attempt to remove a constitutional age cap that would bar Museveni from standing in the next election.
Police have used deadly force against protesters, and repeatedly arrested the main opposition leader. Security forces dragged parliamentarians opposing the bill out of the legislature. On Wednesday, police raided a popular newspaper, detaining eight staff.
Okello Oryem, Uganda’s state minister for foreign affairs, dismissed any parallels with Zimbabwe, saying Mugabe’s overthrow was the result of Western interference.
“The intelligence services of the West have worked day and night to bring down Zimbabwe,” he told Reuters. “Citizen pressure in Zimbabwe can only work if and when the army allows it.”
But another Ugandan opposition leader, Asuman Basalirwa, warned that national leaders who refused to step down risked plunging their countries into conflict. Military intervention to end dictatorships ultimately leads to more repression, he said, something that many feared might be in store for Zimbabwe.
“It is time for the continent to democratize,” he said. “Those who have not yet experienced what happened in Egypt, Tunisia, Libya and now Zimbabwe should just wait for their turn because it will surely come.”


MANILA (Reuters) - Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said on Friday he has terminated intermittent peace talks with Maoist-led rebels and would consider them “terrorists” because hostilities had continued during negotiations.
Ending the nearly half-century long conflict with the communists, in which more than 40,000 people have been killed, was among Duterte’s priorities when he took office in June last year.
Duterte said he would consider the political arm of the Maoists a “terrorist group” and was demanding that dozens of rebel leaders he freed last year in order to restart talks turn themselves in.
“I am ordering those I have released temporarily to surrender or face again punitive action,” Duterte in a speech to soldiers.
“Let it not be said that I did not try to reach out to them,” he said.
Duterte on Thursday signed a proclamation ending the peace talks, which started in August last year and were brokered by Norway. Talks have been intermittent since 1986.
“We find it unfortunate that their members have failed to show their sincerity and commitment in pursuing genuine and meaningful peaceful negotiations,” Duterte’s spokesman, Harry Roque, said in a statement late on Thursday.
In May, government negotiators cancelled a round of formal talks with the Maoist-led rebels in the Netherlands as the guerrillas stepped up attacks in the countryside.
The rebels had no choice but to intensify guerrilla warfare in rural areas, Jose Maria Sison, chief political consultant of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDF), said in a statement.
The NDF, the political arm of the Maoist guerrillas, said it regretted the unilateral cancellation of talks on such vital social and economic reforms.
Government troops were advised to stay alert on the movements of the estimated 3,800 leftist guerrillas, said military spokesman Major-General Restituto Padilla.
Government forces are also battling Islamist fighters in the south of the largely Christian country, some of whom recently occupied a town for several months in the biggest battle in the Philippines since World War Two.


BERLIN (Reuters) - German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier will host a joint meeting next week between Chancellor Angela Merkel, the leader of the centre-left Social Democrats (SPD) and the head of the Bavarian Christian Social Union (CSU), a spokeswoman said.
Merkel’s Christian Democrats (CDU) and their CSU Bavarian sister party have ruled with the SPD in a “grand coalition” since 2013 and their caretaker government remains in place after an election in September.
“After meeting this week with the leaders of the CDU, CSU and SPD the federal president has agreed to meet a joint meeting at Schloss Bellevue,” Steinmeier’s spokeswoman said in a statement. “The meeting takes place next week. The exact date will be communicated at a later time.”


SEOUL (Reuters) - A defector’s treatment for critical injuries suffered during a dramatic dash from North Korea has highlighted a shortage of South Korean trauma doctors and again underscored Seoul’s lack of preparedness in the event of hostilities with Pyongyang.
The defector, identified only by his family name of Oh, was shot at least four times by his former comrades during his daring escape into South Korea last week.
American military helicopters flew the wounded soldier not to one of the many hospitals in Seoul, closer to the border, but to the Ajou University trauma centre an hour south of the capital.
The centre, and its lead surgeon John Cook-Jong Lee, have been thrust into the spotlight amid a push for more trauma facilities and specialist doctors in a country still technically at war and where preventable trauma death rates are already amongst the highest in the OECD.
An official at South Korea’s Ministry of Health said more than 30 percent of people who suffered fatal trauma injuries last year could have survived if they had access to proper, timely treatment. That’s far higher than the 10 to 15 percent in places such as the United States and Japan.
“Although 133 surgeons are currently entitled to perform trauma surgery, I highly doubt that all of them can actually perform,” said Park Chan-yong, general affairs manager of the Korean Society of Traumatology. “Many of them just gained the rights, but never had practiced this kind of surgery.”
By Friday, attention sparked by the defector’s case had prompted nearly 200,000 South Koreans to join a petition asking the presidential Blue House to boost funding for Lee’s trauma centre, one of just nine in the country.
“THERE IS NO HOPE”
During increased tensions this year with heavily armed North Korea, Seoul has faced criticism over a lack of preparation for major emergencies, with many bomb shelters, for example, laying forgotten and unstocked with food or water.
The government has launched programs to raise awareness, but public emergency drills often fail to attract much response.
Despite the apparent need for specialists, Lee said he has faced “ignorance,” including from some doctors who complained he was showing off with new techniques, since returning from training in the United States in 2003.
“I had to explain whenever I met new doctors here, what a trauma surgeon was. Every day,” he said.
Often, trauma medicine is not seen as attractive or lucrative as other fields, said Park.
“Residents and medical students avoid coming to traumatology, because there is no hope and no dream.”
The South Korean government says it recognises the problem, and in 2014 set a goal of lowering its rate of preventable trauma fatalities to levels closer to those of other OECD countries by 2020.
But with a shortage of funding, only half of a planned 17 regional trauma centres have been built so far, a health ministry official said.
Germany, for example, has less than twice the population of South Korea, but 10 times as many operational trauma centres.
South Korea’s strict gun control laws also mean there are far fewer gunshot wounds like those suffered by the defector.  Between January 2012 and August 2017, 31 people were killed and 51 wounded by guns, according to the police.
In comparison, in the United States, where Lee trained, more than 33,000 people die from gunshot wounds every year, according to annual averages of government data.
However, the kinds of industrial accidents and car crashes commonly seen in South Korea can cause equally bad injuries, Lee said.
“In South Korea, roughly speaking, more than 90 percent of trauma victims are brought to the hospital in less than an hour,” Lee said. “However, frequently, they are put in emergency rooms for a while, sometime for hours, to get proper care.”
Lee has made a name for himself and the Ajou trauma centre, in part by cultivating a close relationship with the American and South Korean militaries, making it an obvious choice for the defector’s treatment.
Lee said his fascination with the American medical evacuation crews and the techniques he learned in the United States have led him to push for a series of new additions at the trauma centre, including a recently completed roof-top helipad with flashing neon messages in English for American pilots.
U.S. military air crews, however, have yet to obtain Pentagon permission to use the new helipad, Lee said.
The arrival of the North Korean defector has brought Lee a new round of criticism for appearing to seek attention, including from one lawmaker, a charge he says is unfounded.
But it has also highlighted the need for more funding for his centre and more trauma facilities in South Korea.
“To those who get only 10, 20 minutes of sleep while working to save emergency room patients, to those who only get to go home once a week or not even that – we should not be criticizing them but rather, discuss how to resolve problems within the system,” the petition submitted to the Blue House said.


BERLIN (Reuters) - German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier wants to hold a joint meeting with Chancellor Angela Merkel and the leader of the centre-left Social Democrats (SPD) next week, mass-selling Bild newspaper reported on Friday, citing presidential sources.
Bild said Steinmeier wants to meet with Merkel, SPD leader Martin Schulz and Horst Seehofer, the leader of the Christian Social Union (CSU), the sister party to Merkel’s Christian Democrats (CDU), either on Monday or Tuesday.


LONDON (Reuters) - Ireland is trying to force the United Kingdom, or at least Northern Ireland, to remain in the customs union after Brexit as it suits their national interest, the deputy leader of the province’s Democratic Unionist Party said on Friday.
“Their real aim is to try to get to a situation where either they try to force the United Kingdom as a whole to stay within the customs union, which is in their interests clearly,” Nigel Dodds told Sky News.
“Or, if they fail that, to at least force Northern Ireland to stay within the customs union and the single market, follow the rules of it, something then we’d have no say over, but we’d have to abide by the rules which would then bring about a united Ireland much easier.”


GENEVA (Reuters) - Conditions in Myanmar’s northern Rakhine state “are not in place to enable safe and sustainable returns” of more than 600,000 Rohingya refugees who fled violence to Bangladesh since late August, the United Nations refugee agency UNHCR said on Friday.
UNHCR said it had still not seen a repatriation agreement signed by the two countries on Thursday, but stressed that any returns by the “traumatised” group must be safe and voluntary. Spokesman Adrian Edwards told a news briefing: “It is important that international standards apply, and we are ready to help.”


DUBLIN (Reuters) - Ireland’s second-largest party Fianna Fail, which helps prop up the government, indicated on Friday it would force an election if the country’s deputy prime minister does not resign over a policing scandal.
Asked in an interview with national broadcaster RTE whether the only thing that could prevent a snap general election was the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister Frances Fitzgerald, senior Fianna Fail member Dara Calleary said: “I think so.”


DUBLIN (Reuters) - Ireland’s government will collapse if the opposition Fianna Fail party proceeds with its plan to vote for the resignation of the Deputy Prime Minister Frances Fitzgerald on Tuesday, Foreign Minister Simon Coveney said.
“If they move ahead with the motion of no confidence, then the confidence and supply (agreement) is over,” Coveney, a member of the ruling Fine Gael party, told state broadcaster RTE on Friday, referring to a three-year agreement Fianna Fail signed to support the government.
“If there is no confidence and supply agreement in place ... then I don’t see how we can have a government that can function,” he said.


HONG KONG (Reuters) - Amid calls from Hong Kong’s pro-Beijing elite for sweeping new national security laws, government advisers and lawyers say the legislation is likely to be tougher than proposals shelved 14 years ago, raising fears about the city’s cherished freedoms.
Those demanding urgency for the long-delayed Article 23 are using a fledgling independence movement in the former British colony as justification – even though the independence debate would have been allowed when Article 23 was first proposed in 2003.
Lawyers, diplomats and activists fear the new pressure could lead to legal “overkill” in an open city already struggling with increased interference from Beijing’s Communist Party rulers.
“We can see an intolerance from the central authorities over any kind of independence discussion,” said Simon Young, a professor at the University of Hong Kong law school.
“In this atmosphere, there is a concern that we could end up with something that criminalises even the advocacy of independence, something that goes much further and is tougher than the previous proposals.”
Kevin Yam, of Hong Kong’s Progressive Lawyers Group, said it was vital to win the argument against independence by persuasion and debate, rather than a sweeping new law that curbs freedoms.
“If the government goes too far, it will undoubtedly have a chilling impact on Hong Kong,” he said. “This is of great concern.”
The government, in response to Reuters’ questions, did not provide information on when or how it would kick-start legislation, but said it “will seek to create a favourable social environment for the community to handle this constitutional obligation ... in a positive manner.”
Hong Kong, a free-wheeling global financial hub, has been ruled under a “one country, two systems” formula since Britain handed it back to China in 1997, guaranteeing freedoms not enjoyed on the mainland, including an independent judiciary and freedom of expression.
Those freedoms are outlined in the Basic Law, a mini-constitution that also demands the city pass its own law covering treason, secession and subversion against Beijing.
But many see Beijing increasingly involved in Hong Kong’s affairs, such as the shadowy detention in 2015 of five Hong Kong booksellers who sold gossipy material critical of Beijing, and a legal interpretation from the Chinese parliament that eventually led to the disqualification of six democratically elected lawmakers. The calls to enact Article 23 follow that pattern, they say.
Previous government proposals outlawed incitement to violence but sought to protect political debate. Hundreds of thousands took to the streets to protest against Article 23 in 2003, forcing the government to shelve it. Months-long pro-democracy demonstrations in 2014 further heightened political sensitivities surrounding the legislation, and the government has not set a firm timetable to re-introduce it.
But now pressure is mounting on Hong Kong to push through the laws after mainland officials expressed concerns in both public and private meetings.
“POTENTIAL HAZARDS”
Senior Chinese parliamentarian Li Fei used a visit to Hong Kong last week to warn that Article 23 was a “duty that can’t be shirked” while the chief of China’s Liaison Office in the city also called for action.
“Many risks and potential hazards that would affect or even threaten national sovereignty, security and developmental interests have not been effectively eliminated or prevented,” Liaison Office chief and Communist Party Central Committee member Wang Zhimin told pro-establishment lawmakers, according to his office’s website.
Chinese President Xi Jinping took what some saw as a harder line on Hong Kong’s future during his visit in July to mark the 20th anniversary of the handover from the British. Challenges and threats to China’s sovereignty and power, or the use of Hong Kong as a base for infiltration and sabotage, were acts that crossed “the red line” and were “absolutely impermissible”, Xi said.
Two members of Hong Kong’s executive council - effectively the cabinet of leader Carrie Lam - have told Reuters that the 2003 bill would almost certainly have to be updated to reflect the fresh concerns.
The city’s independence movement, which has largely gone underground after most of its young leaders were charged for their roles in various protests, did not exist in 2003.
Executive Council member Regina Ip - who pushed the previous bill as Hong Kong’s then-security chief - said she could not say if the old proposals were sufficient in 2017.
“We must review any proposed legislation against the evolving security situation... that is only natural,” she said.
Her colleague and moderate democrat Ronny Tong said he believed, realistically, any new laws could draw the line at organised efforts to promote independence.
“If the last version were to be passed, in fact it would not stop ... what is done by the students, because they are not advocating violence,” he said.
“Hong Kong people are getting more and more intolerant of Beijing, and they (Chinese rulers) don’t like that at all. Even short of independence, they feel that something needs to be done ... to try to make people more respectful to Beijing.”


SEOUL (Reuters) - North Korea has reportedly replaced guards and fortified a section of its border with South Korea where a North Korean soldier defected last week, while South Korean and U.S. soldiers have been decorated for their role in the defector’s rescue.
The North Korean defector was shot and wounded by his fellow soldiers as he dashed into the South Korean side of the Joint Security Area (JSA) last week.
The South Korean and U.S. soldiers who led a rescue attempt to drag the gravely injured soldier to safety have been awarded medals, according to U.S. Forces Korea.
A group of senior diplomats based in Seoul visited the JSA on Wednesday morning where they saw five North Korean workers digging a deep trench in the area where the soldier had dashed across the line after getting his jeep stuck in a small ditch, a member of the diplomatic delegation told Reuters on Friday.
In a photograph of the visit posted to the Twitter account of acting U.S. ambassador to South Korea, Marc Knapper, North Korean workers could be seen using shovels to dig a deep trench on the North Korean side of the line as soldiers stood guard.
“The workers were being watched very closely by the KPA guards, not just the two in the photo, but others out of shot behind the building,” said the diplomat, who asked not to be identified because of the sensitivity of the situation.
According to an intelligence official cited by South Korea’s Yonhap news agency, the North has replaced the 35-40 soldiers it had guarding the JSA at the time of the incident.
“We’re closely monitoring the North Korean military’s movement in the JSA,” a South Korean defence ministry official told reporters, without confirming the reduction in border guards. “There are limits as to what we can say about things we know.”
Reuters was unable to independently verify the reports, although photos taken by Knapper and other diplomats of soldiers guarding the area where workers were digging the trench showed them dressed in slightly different uniforms to the ones usually worn by North Korea’s JSA guards.
Two new trees had also been planted in the small space between the ditch and the line with the South, the diplomat told Reuters, in an apparent effort to make it more difficult for would-be defectors to drive across the ground.
Meanwhile, in South Korea, U.S. Forces Korea (USFK) said it had awarded its own JSA soldiers - three South Korean and three U.S. soldiers - the Army Commendation medal in recognition for their efforts in rescuing the defector.
The medals were personally handed out by USFK Commander Vincent Brooks in a ceremony on Thursday, according to USFK’s Facebook page.
The soldiers had been responsible for dragging the wounded North Korean soldier to safety in a daring rescue seen in security camera footage released by the United Nations Command earlier this week.
Pyongyang has not commented on the defection of its soldier, who is now in stable condition despite sustaining multiple injuries sustained from gunshot wounds to his arm and torso.
The young soldier, known only by his family name Oh, is a quiet, pleasant man who has nightmares about being returned to the North, his surgeon told Reuters on Thursday.


BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Ireland does not need an election now that talks on the terms of Britain’s exit from the European Union are entering a crucial phase on how to avoid a physical border between Ireland and Northern Ireland, Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney said on Friday.
The Irish government was on the verge of collapse on Thursday after the party whose votes Prime Minister Leo Varadkar depends on to pass legislation said it would seek to remove the deputy prime minister in a breach of their cooperation agreement.
“Ireland does not need an election right now. There is no reason why Frances Fitzgerald should be forced to resign. The issues that are under discussion are under investigation by a tribunal we all agreed to set up,” Coveney said.
“The main opposition party... are risking an election at a time when there are some really, really serious issues for the government to manage in the national interests,” he said referring to Brexit negotiations.


JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - The family of murdered model Reeva Steenkamp welcomed the increased sentence of 13 years and five months handed down on Paralympian Oscar Pistorius on Friday and said it showed that justice could prevail in South Africa.
“This is an emotional thing for them. They just feel that their trust in the justice system has been confirmed this morning,” Tania Koen, a spokeswoman for the Steenkamp family, told Reuters.


ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish authorities issued detention warrants on Friday for 79 former teachers, the state-run Anadolu news agency said, as part of a widening crackdown since last year’s failed coup attempt.
The teachers were formerly employed at schools allegedly linked to the U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, accused by Ankara of orchestrating last July’s abortive putsch, Anadolu said. The schools were shut down after the coup attempt.
Gulen, who has lived in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania since 1999, denies involvement.
Anadolu said security forces were carrying out operations to capture the suspects in Ankara, where thousands of teachers from across the country arrived to visit the mausoleum of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of modern Turkey, to celebrate the national teachers’ day.
Since the abortive coup, more than 50,000 people have been jailed pending trial over alleged links to Gulen, while some  150,000 people have been sacked or suspended from jobs in the military, public and private sectors.
Rights groups and some of Turkey’s Western allies have voiced concern about the crackdown, fearing the government is using the coup as a pretext to quash dissent.
The government says only such a purge could neutralise the threat represented by Gulen’s network, which it says deeply infiltrated institutions such as the army, schools and courts.


PHNOM PENH (Reuters) - “We speak our mind”, says the website of a group of young Cambodians who have met at weekends for the past six years to discuss politics over mugs of coffee.
But discussions by the Politikoffee group were postponed indefinitely by the organisers after the main opposition party was dissolved last week at the request of authoritarian Prime Minister Hun Sen’s government.
For participants, the suspension of their meetings because of the difficult environment was just one more sign of debate being shut down in what has been one of Southeast Asia’s most open societies.
“People are sensitive in talking about politics or talking about what the government is doing right now,” said Noan Sereiboth, 28, a researcher for health projects who was a regular attendee at the Politikoffee gatherings.
“Sometimes people’s parents tell them not to talk about politics to stay safe,” he said.
The arrest of opposition leader Kem Sokha for alleged treason in September and the ban on his party have eliminated the main obstacles to Hun Sen extending more than three decades in power in a general election next year.
But the crackdown by the government has been felt much deeper: to once vocal civil society groups nurtured by Western donors, to independent media and to anyone posting subversive comment on social media.
“Local NGOs have been paralysed and scattered,” said Naly Pilorge of the Licadho human rights group, which has a long record of reporting on detentions and land seizures.
“People say space is shrinking. It’s not shrinking, it’s closed,” she told Reuters at her office in Phnom Penh.
Three other groups declined to comment or did not respond to requests for official comment.
It was not lost on the groups that their names featured as associates of the opposition during testimony at the Supreme Court on banning the Cambodia National Rescue Party (CNRP), which was accused of plotting a revolution with American help.
The opposition says there was never a plot, dismissing accusations as a ploy to eliminate Hun Sen’s rival.
“GRADUATED FROM FEAR”
The government said nobody had reason to fear in a country that has been transformed since the devastation wrought by the Khmer Rouge genocide in the 1970s.
“Everyone has full freedom of expression in every way,” said Huy Vannak, undersecretary of state at the Interior Ministry. “We have long graduated from fear.”
Civil rights groups and other non-governmental organisations flourished in Cambodia with the help of Western countries that hoped to build a liberal democracy after the first multiparty elections in 1993.
That brought a more open environment than in neighbouring countries such as communist Vietnam and Laos or military-ruled Thailand, with its harsh sentences for criticising the monarchy.
But Western donors lack the weight they one had in Cambodia and Hun Sen has brushed of their criticism of the crackdown.
China is now the biggest aid giver. Since the ban on the CNRP, it has voiced support for Cambodia in the name of protecting political stability and economic development.
Politikoffee, which gets speakers from all sides for its debates, said that postponing its recent events because of the difficult environment did not mean it was giving up.
“We hope we can weather the dramatically changing political order,” team leader Aun Chhengpor told Reuters. “The forum will be back in place soon.”
Although the debates among a few dozen participants cost little to organise, Politikoffee uses space provided by the Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, a German pro-democracy group which said it had no say over the group’s discussions.
The political troubles are not evident in the daily bustle of Phnom Penh, capital of a country of 16 million people which has recorded economic growth of around seven percent for the past six years.
But few wish to speak about politics.
“We must just keep quiet and let it pass,” said Chrock Soth, 46, who just about makes a living selling bananas from his bicycle on the outskirts of the city.
In an informal survey of more than 30 people in and around Phnom Penh, traditionally a stronghold of the opposition, roughly half declined to comment on the situation or said they did not care about politics.
The rest were unhappy, but said they could do nothing.
“Youths care about politics,” Noan Sereiboth said. “But in the current situation they can’t do anything except watch.”


HARARE (Reuters) - Incoming Zimbabwe leader Emmerson Mnangagwa assured former president Robert Mugabe he and his family would be safe in the country when the two men spoke for the first time since Mnangagwa returned home this week, state media said on Friday.
The State-owned The Herald newspaper said Mugabe and Mnangagwa, who is set to be sworn in as president later on Friday, had agreed that the former leader may not attend the swearing-in ceremony because he was tired.


JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - The Southern African Development Community (SADC), an intergovernmental organisation, said on Friday that it was ready to work closely with Zimbabwe’s incoming leader Emmerson Mnangagwa and his government.
Mnangagwa is due to be sworn in as Zimbabwean president on Friday following the resignation of Robert Mugabe, who had ruled Zimbabwe since independence in 1980.
SADC is a 16-country intergovernmental organisation which is currently chaired by South Africa.


DUBAI (Reuters) - The vast majority of about 200 businessmen and officials implicated in a sweeping crackdown on corruption are agreeing to settlements under which they hand over assets to the government, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman told the New York Times.
“We show them all the files that we have and as soon as they see those about 95 percent agree to a settlement,” which means signing over cash or shares in their companies to the Saudi Treasury, the newspaper quoted Prince Mohammed as saying.
“About 1 percent are able to prove they are clean and their case is dropped right there. About 4 percent say they are not corrupt and with their lawyers want to go to court.”
Prince Mohammed repeated a previous official estimate that the government could eventually recover around $100 billion (75.23 billion pounds) of illicit money through settlements.
The government said two weeks ago that it had questioned 208 people in the crackdown and released seven without charge. Dozens of princes, senior officials and top businessmen are believed to be held in Riyadh’s opulent Ritz Carlton hotel as their cases are processed.
Over 2,000 Saudi bank accounts have been frozen during the probe, causing concern that the crackdown could damage the economy. But the government has insisted that the companies of detained businessmen will continue operating normally.
”We have experts making sure no businesses are bankrupted in the process,” Prince Mohammed told the Times.
He dismissed suggestions that the crackdown aimed to strengthen his political power as ludicrous, noting that prominent people held at the Ritz had already publicly pledged allegiance to him and his reforms. “A majority of the royal family” is behind him, Prince Mohammed said.
“Under Saudi law, the public prosecutor is independent. We cannot interfere with his job — the king can dismiss him, but he is driving the process.”
“You have to send a signal, and the signal going forward now is, ‘You will not escape.’”


DHAKA (Reuters) - Several small opposition parties in Bangladesh have called for a half-day strike on Thursday against a power tariff increase, which could cause traffic chaos in the congested capital as Pope Francis arrives for a three-day visit.
The strike will begin on Thursday morning and end in the early afternoon, after the pope is expected to land in Dhaka following a visit to neighbouring Myanmar.
Strikes in Bangladesh often involve street protests.
The Communist Party of Bangladesh, which is leading the protest against the increase in electricity prices by an average of 5.3 percent from next month, said it had no intention of disrupting the pope’s visit but the action was necessary given the “burden” on the people.
But police said there would be no problem.
“We will be able to control the situation during the strike and there is nothing to worry about,” said police spokeswoman Sahely Ferdous.
Dhaka is one of the most densely populated cities in the world, with an average traffic speed of just 7 kph (4.3 mph), slightly faster than an average walking speed, according to the World Bank.
Congestion in Dhaka eats up 3.2 million working hours per day, it says.
Pope Francis’ visit will include a mass and meetings with a group of Rohingya Muslim refugees from Myanmar.
More than 600,000 Rohingya have fled to Bangladesh following violence in Myanmar since late August.


KIEV (Reuters) - Five Ukrainian servicemen were killed when pro-Russian rebels attacked government positions mostly in the Luhansk region on Thursday, the Ukrainian military said.
An almost three-year-old peace agreement has failed to stop fighting in eastern Ukraine with each side accusing the other of violating the terms of a ceasefire on a near-daily basis.
The Ukrainian military said in a statement they suffered losses during an eight-hour clash near the small village of Krymske, 30 km (20 miles) west of Luhansk.
The situation in the Luhansk region had escalated after a conflict between separatist factions controlling the city.


SYDNEY (Reuters) - A rebel member of Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull’s coalition government is circulating a draft bill to step up pressure for an official inquiry into the country’s scandal-hit banks.
Although the prime minister has staked much political capital on defending the banks, his government’s control of parliament is teetering over a citizenship crisis, giving the bill a chance of passing by the end of the year.
A banking inquiry would turn up the heat on the country’s “Big Four” banks, which have been grilled by cross-party parliamentary committees over scandals including providing misleading financial advice, insurance fraud and rate-rigging.
The draft bill, reviewed by Reuters, was being circulated late this week by Barry O‘Sullivan, a senator of the junior coalition partner, the National Party. It calls for a wide-ranging inquiry to appeal across the political divide.
Turnbull has previously rejected public and opposition calls for an inquiry into the banks but the leader of the Liberal-National-led coalition is languishing in opinion polls and has lost his majority in the lower house. Several lawmakers were forced to quit because they had dual citizenship, making them ineligible for office under the constitution.
The bill suggests the probe should have the same powers as a Royal Commission, including being able to compel executives to testify under oath, to demand documents and to recommend both prosecution and legislation.
It proposes a wide-ranging investigation, including whether banks, insurers and superannuation funds were engaged in unethical or unlawful behavior, and whether a new independent regulatory body should be established.
The inquiry would report to a group of three commissioners appointed by the senate, the draft bill says.
To fend off an inquiry and calls for a Royal Commission, Citigroup banking analysts said on Friday in a note to clients that Turnbull’s government would propose the banks enter into private mediation.
However, they said the banks might reject the idea.
“They may form the view that they will get a Royal Commission under a Labor Government in any case,” Citigroup analysts wrote in a note to clients on Friday, a reference to the opposition party that is gaining ground as Turnbull’s coalition languishes.
“It is still our view the Prime Minister and the Treasurer will oppose a Royal Commission or Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry in the event the banks reject this proposal.”
A Treasurer spokesman said the Citigroup “claims are completely false and the report is misinformed. We are having individual and direct discussions with the banks.”
Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA.AX), the biggest of the “Big Four”, faces claims of systemic breaches of money laundering and counter-terrorism-financing laws that could result in billions of dollars in fines and damages.
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd (ANZ.AX) and National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB.AX) earlier this month agreed to pay A$50 million ($38 million) each to settle interest rate-rigging cases. Westpac is contesting the same allegations.
Anna Bligh, the head of the sector’s lobby group, had said Australia already had one of the most highly regulated finance sectors in the world, and another inquiry would not help to improve confidence in the banking sector.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Lawyers for Michael Flynn, President Donald Trump’s former national security adviser, have told Trump’s legal team they can no longer discuss a probe into Russian meddling in the U.S. election, indicating Flynn may be cooperating with the investigation, the New York Times reported on Thursday.
Flynn, a retired Army general, is a central figure in a federal investigation led by Special Counsel Robert Mueller into whether Trump aides colluded with Russia to boost his 2016 presidential campaign.
The probe has hung over the White House since January, when U.S. intelligence agencies concluded that Russia interfered in the election to try to help Trump defeat Democrat Hillary Clinton by hacking and releasing embarrassing emails and disseminating propaganda via social media to discredit her.
Russia has denied interfering in the U.S. election and Trump has said there was no collusion.
Flynn’s lawyer and a spokesman for Mueller declined to comment on Thursday.
Jay Sekulow, an attorney for Trump, said: “No one should draw the conclusion that this means anything about General Flynn cooperating against the president.”
The Times reported that Flynn’s lawyers had been sharing information with Trump’s legal team about the Mueller investigation. Citing four unnamed people involved in the case, the newspaper reported the cooperation agreement had ended.
Due to rules that aim to prevent conflicts of interest when lawyers represent clients, the move by Flynn’s lawyers to stop communicating with Trump’s lawyers indicated Flynn was now cooperating with Mueller, the Times said, although adding that in itself was not proof.
But the development has led Trump’s lawyers to believe that Flynn has begun discussions with Mueller about cooperating, according to the Times.
Flynn served 24 days as Trump’s national security adviser but was fired after it was discovered he had misrepresented his contacts with a Russian diplomat to Vice President Mike Pence.
Mueller’s inquiry is looking into Flynn’s paid work as a lobbyist for a Turkish businessman in 2016, in addition to contacts between Russian officials and Flynn and other Trump associates during and after the Nov. 8 presidential election, Reuters reported in June.
A lawyer for Flynn’s son, Michael Flynn Jr., who worked with his father and is also being investigated by Mueller, according to a person familiar with the matter, declined to comment.


MAR DEL PLATA, Argentina (Reuters) - The Argentine navy raised the possibility on Thursday that a navy submarine missing in the South Atlantic suffered an explosion, heightening concerns over the fate of the 44 crew members on the eighth day of an international search effort.
A sound detected underwater by an international agency on the morning of Nov. 15, around the time the ARA San Juan sent its last signal and in the same area, was “consistent with an explosion,” navy spokesman Enrique Balbi told reporters.
The sub had only a seven-day supply of oxygen, a fact that drained hope from some of the relatives of the crew who have gathered at the vessel’s base in the city of Mar del Plata.
“What’s the point of hope if it’s already over?” Itati Leguizamon, wife of one of the missing crew members, told reporters.
The navy did not have enough information to say what the cause of the explosion could have been or whether the vessel might have been attacked, Balbi said.
Search-and-rescue crews were undeterred by a series of false leads that raised hope over recent days that the sub might be located. Asked during an evening news conference about the fate of the 44 sailors, Balbi said the situation was “critical”.
“We are not going to enter into conjecture out of respect for the families,” he added.
The information about the possible explosion was received  on Thursday from the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty Organization, or CTBTO, an international body that runs a global network of listening posts designed to check for secret atomic blasts.
The Vienna-based agency, which has monitoring stations equipped with devices including underwater microphones that scan the oceans for sound waves, said in a statement that two of its  stations had detected an unusual signal near where the submarine went missing. The agency was more guarded about whether that  was caused by an explosion.
A huge sea and air hunt is being conducted for the San Juan, a German-built, diesel-electric powered submarine that was launched in 1983, as crew members’ relatives waited anxiously for news more than a week after the vessel disappeared.
The relatives had been largely optimistic until Thursday. They shed tears and insulted authorities after being briefed on the news of the possible explosion. They were told about it before the public announcement.
Balbi said the news of the abnormal sound was consistent with a separate report received on Wednesday of an “acoustic anomaly” in the same area and around the same time. The San Juan was some 430 km (270 miles) off the Patagonian coast when it sent its last signal.
“This is very important because it allows us to correlate and confirm the acoustic anomaly from the U.S. report yesterday,” Balbi said. “Here, we’re talking about a singular, short, violent, non-nuclear event, consistent with an explosion.”
In Vienna, CTBTO hydroacoustic engineer Mario Zampolli said the signal his agency had detected “could be consistent with an explosion but there is no certainty about this.” Speaking to Reuters, he agreed with Balbi’s description of the signal as unusual and short, adding that the cause was non-natural.
The submarine was en route from Ushuaia, the southernmost city in the world, to Mar del Plata, 400 km (250 miles) south of Buenos Aires, when it reported an electrical malfunction shortly before disappearing.
Some relatives have questioned authorities for letting the crew navigate on an ageing submarine - criticism that has highlighted the armed forces’ dwindling resources since the end of a military dictatorship in the 1980s.
Authorities have said the level of maintenance, not the age, was what mattered, and that the vessel was in good condition.


MUMBAI (Reuters) - A passenger train slipped off the rails in northern India early on Friday, killing at least three people and injuring about 10, the railways ministry said.
The train was on its way from Goa in western India to Patna in the east when 13 coaches derailed, the ministry said. It did not provide any reason for the accident, which occurred in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh.
Television news agency ANI however quoted the Uttar Pradesh Additional Director General of police as saying that the cause of accident is most probably a fractured railway track “as per local assessment.”
A medical train and a relief train had reached the accident spot, the railways said.
India has seen a spate of rail accidents over the last 12 months. Earlier in August, there were three separate incidents on the world’s fourth-biggest rail network injuring over 165 people and killing several others.
The biggest accident so far this year was on Aug. 19 in Uttar Pradesh, which resulted in the death of 23 people and led to the suspension of three senior railways officials. A crash in Uttar Pradesh last November killed 150 people.
India’s ailing rail network is in the midst of a $130 billion (97.80 billion pounds), five-year modernisation process.
In addition, the government launched a $15 billion safety overhaul in February after the surge in accidents blamed on defective tracks.
But in June, Reuters reported that the overhaul was facing delays as the state steel company could not meet demand for new rails.


TOKYO (Reuters) - A U.S. Navy said it has called off a search for three sailors missing since a transport plane crashed in the Philippines Sea south of Japan on Wednesday enroute to the USS Ronald Reagan aircraft carrier.
“During the course of two days, eight U.S. Navy and Japan Maritime Defence Force ships, three helicopter squadrons and maritime patrol aircraft covered nearly 1,000 square nautical miles,” the U.S. Seventh Fleet said in a press release.
Eight other people on a C-2 Greyhound were rescued shortly after the aircraft crashed and transferred to the Reagan.
The latest Navy accident in the Asia Pacific comes after two deadly incidents in the region involving U.S. warships that have raised questions about training and the pace of Navy operations in the region, prompting a Congressional hearing and the removal of a number of some senior officers.
The propeller powered C-2 on Wednesday was conducting a routine flight carrying passengers and cargo from Marine Corps Air Station Iwakuni in Japan to the carrier.
The mainstay transport aircraft for the U.S. carrier fleet has been in operation for more than five decades and is due to be replaced by a long-range version of the tilt-rotor Osprey aircraft.
The U.S. Navy said it is investigating the cause of the crash. Japanese Minister of Defence Itsunori Onodera told reporters on Wednesday that the U.S. Navy informed him that the crash may have been a result of engine trouble.


MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Mexico’s ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) said on Thursday registration for PRI contenders in the July 2018 presidential election will begin on Dec. 3, and that a national convention would pick the candidate on Feb. 18.
In a statement, the PRI said the national convention would be made up of around 19,100 delegates to be chosen during the second week of December. President Enrique Pena Nieto is barred by law from seeking a second six-year term.
Ruling Mexico continuously from 1929, the PRI had become a byword for corruption by the time it was voted out in 2000.
Pena Nieto returned the party to power in 2012, but a slew of corruption scandals, ongoing gang violence and anaemic growth have sapped the PRI’s credibility in the past five years.
The party faces an uphill struggle to hang on to power, and veteran leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, twice a runner-up for the presidency, has led most early polling for 2018.
The run-up to the election takes place in the midst of fraught discussions between Mexico, the United States and Canada over the future of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which underpins much of the region’s commerce.
U.S. President Donald Trump has threatened to walk away from the accord if he cannot rework it in favour of the United States. The three nations have pledged to keep talking through March.


TOKYO (Reuters) - Police in northern Japan have found eight men near a boat at a seaside marina who said they were from North Korea, and appear to be fishermen whose vessel ran into trouble, rather than defectors, a police official said on Friday.
The incident comes at a time of rising tension over North Korea’s nuclear arms and missile programmes after President Donald Trump redesignated the isolated nation a state sponsor of terrorism, allowing the United States to levy further sanctions.
Japanese police took the men into custody after a resident of Yurihonjo, a city in the prefecture of Akita, told police of the presence of individuals of unknown nationality, the official, Yoshinobu Ito, told Reuters.
The men, who said they were North Koreans, appear to be fishermen whose wooden boat, found nearby, had trouble and went adrift, Ito said. Police and authorities were now dealing with the matter, he added.
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, asked if the possibility the men were spies had been ruled out, told a news conference authorities were handling the matter carefully.
Japan is studying plans to cope with a possible influx of tens of thousands of North Korean evacuees should a military or other crisis break out on the peninsula, as well as how to weed out spies and terrorists among them, a domestic newspaper said.
Last week, the Japan Coast Guard rescued three North Korean men on a capsized boat in the Sea of Japan, off central Japan. The men said they were fishermen and were later sent home aboard a North Korean vessel. Twelve more crew went missing.
Last week a North Korean soldier dramatically defected to the South after being shot and wounded by his country’s military as he made his getaway across the border in the heavily guarded Demilitarized Zone between the two countries.


KABUL (Reuters) - Three Georgian military personnel serving with the NATO-led Resolute Support mission in Afghanistan were lightly wounded when their vehicle was attacked near an airbase north of the capital Kabul, officials said.
None of their injuries was considered life-threatening, Resolute Support spokesman Capt. Tom Gresback said in an emailed statement on Thursday.
“During a recent patrol south of Bagram Airfield yesterday afternoon, three Georgian service members suffered minor injuries when a motorcycle-borne IED (improvised explosive device) was detonated next to their patrol,” he said.
The attack came as NATO prepares to send more troops to Afghanistan to support a new U.S. strategy aimed at breaking the stalemate with the Taliban.
Georgia, one of the largest contributing nations to the 13,500-strong Resolute Support mission, has around 870 troops in Afghanistan, behind only Germany, Italy and the United States.
In August, a Georgian soldier was killed and six other coalition personnel were wounded in an attack on a convoy in Qarabagh district, the area in which Wednesday’s attack occurred.


BERLIN (Reuters) - The leader of Germany’s Social Democrats came under growing pressure on Thursday to drop his opposition to a new “grand coalition” with Angela Merkel’s conservatives, with senior politicians arguing the party had a duty to promote stability.
Merkel is facing the biggest political crisis of her career since efforts to forge a three-way coalition with the pro-business Free Democrats (FDP) and Greens collapsed last weekend. That has raised worries across Europe of a prolonged leadership vacuum in the continent’s economic powerhouse.
The Social Democrats (SPD) have governed in coalition under Merkel since 2013. But leader Martin Schulz said the party must heed the will of voters by going into opposition after achieving its worst result of the postwar period in the Sept. 24 election.
Pressure is growing on the party to revisit his decision, either by agreeing to prop up a conservative-led minority government by not voting against it, or by forming a renewed coalition.
In either case, the position of Schulz as party leader could become untenable. If changing course and teaming up with the conservatives requires a change of leadership at the SPD, that would be unlikely before a party conference on Dec. 7-9.
Schulz held a lengthy meeting with President Frank-Walter Steinmeier, a former SPD lawmaker and foreign minister, on Thursday afternoon before heading to party headquarters to consult senior party members. Steinmeier is trying to help facilitate a coalition government and avoid fresh elections.
“We will talk about if and how one can get a federal government in Germany,” a senior SPD member said ahead of the meeting, adding that one option on the table was to support Merkel only indirectly by not blocking a minority government.
But Stephan Weil, the SPD premier of the state of Lower Saxony, one of the party’s most influential figures after he defied polls by winning re-election this year, implied a full coalition would preferable to a minority government.
“Minority governments are fragile constructs,” he told the RND newspaper consortium. The SPD had to chart a path between a party rank-and-file reluctant to repeat the bruising experience of a grand coalition and its democratic obligations.
“Everyone understands that the stakes are high, involving the stability of an extremely important member of the European Union,” he added.
Volker Kauder, leader of the conservative parliamentary group and a key ally Merkel ally, echoed the sentiment, calling for the grand coalition to be reprised.
“Europe is waiting for a Germany capable of acting so that it can finally respond to the questions raised by French President (Emmanuel) Macron,” he said, referring to Macron’s call for fiscal reforms to strengthen the euro zone.
Germany, the world’s fourth largest economy, has long been a bastion of stability in the EU, and officials in Brussels and Paris fear months of political uncertainty could harm plans to reform euro zone governance and EU defence and asylum policies.
Merkel, who remains acting chancellor until a new government is agreed, has said she would prefer to work with the SPD, but if that option fails, she would favour new elections over an unstable minority government.
Another election would also provide no speedy resolution. Under Germany’s constitution, the president could call another election only after Merkel had lost several votes in the Bundestag -- a process that could take several months.
The mass-circulation Bild newspaper reported on Wednesday that 30 members of the SPD’s 153-strong parliamentary group this week had questioned Schulz’s preference for going into opposition during a meeting of the parliamentary party.
Speaking to ZDF television on Thursday, SPD deputy leader Karl Lauterbach said his party might have to rethink its opposition to another “grand coalition”, but added he was still sceptical about joining one led by Merkel.
The SPD supports Macron’s proposal to give the euro zone the power to spend money to protect members of the single currency bloc against external shocks.
If the SPD changes tack about a “grand coalition”, however, the leader of Merkel’s sister party in the state of Bavaria, the Christian Social Union (CSU), said on Thursday it should not expect the conservatives to grant any significant concessions.
“We can’t be blackmailed,” said Horst Seehofer, who is himself fighting to hang on as CSU leader in the face of internal opposition.


WARSAW (Reuters) - A bill sponsored by Poland’s ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party will undermine the fairness of elections, opposition deputies said in parliament on Thursday.
The proposal would introduce live web feeds from polling stations, but also replace all current members of the State Electoral Commission, a body responsible for conducting and overseeing elections, as well as all election commissioners, giving political parties more say in naming new ones.
The PiS has said its bill would make voting more transparent, but critics said the real aim is to boost the electoral prospects of the party, which has been accused by the European Commission of eroding democratic standards.
“This bill is a thuggish project. This is a mine placed under elections in Poland,” the head of opposition PSL party, Wladyslaw Kosiniak-Kamysz said in parliament.
The socially conservative PiS, in power since late 2015, is already at loggerheads with fellow members of the European Union over its push to bring the courts and state media under more direct government control, as well as over migration.
According to the 72-page long amendment that did not undergo any public consultations, seven of the nine members of the State Electoral Commission would be chosen by parliament for 9-year terms, with PiS set to directly appoint three members and the remaining parties four.
The remaining two members would be judges chosen by the head of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Supreme Administrative court.
PiS deputies have already appointed the head of the Tribunal following changes in the law that opposition parties said violated the constitution, a charge PiS denies.
“The changes proposed in the bill will destabilise the election system and are a serious threat to the effective carrying out of the local elections in 2018,” the State Election Commission said in a statement last week.
Head of the Commission Wojciech Hermelinski said on Thursday the amendment would also give an advantage to political parties at the expense of independent candidates.
The bill would require the newly-chosen Commission to appoint nearly 400 election commissioners within 60 days of the bill coming into force, removing the requirement for the commissioners to be independent from political parties.
Lawmakers are expected to initially vote on the bill early on Friday. If finally passed by the PiS-dominated parliament, the bill would still have to be signed into law by President Andrzej Duda, who could potentially veto it.


KAMPALA (Reuters) - Eight managers and editors of a daily newspaper arrested this week have been charged with treason, Ugandan police said on Thursday.
Police raided the Red Pepper, Uganda’s leading tabloid, late on Tuesday and detained the journalists, whom they accused of publishing a false story the previous day.
The story, citing unnamed sources, alleged that Rwanda believed Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni was plotting to oust its leader, Paul Kagame.
Besides treason, the journalists were charged with “offensive communication and publication of information prejudicial to national security,” police spokesman Emilian Kayima told Reuters.
Kayima couldn’t say when the journalists would appear in court.
Rights groups and journalists have complained of escalating harassment and intimidation of independent media by security personnel in Uganda.
“We believe that this is economic sabotage aimed at occasioning the media house financial loss since all its production have been stopped,” the Human Rights Network for Journalists - Uganda (HRNJ-U), a local media rights group, said in a statement issued on Thursday.
Local media, including Red Pepper, have reported this month on tensions between Uganda and neighbouring Rwanda over a range of economic and security disputes. Uganda’s foreign affairs ministry has dismissed the reports as rumours and insisted relations between the two countries were untroubled.


BERLIN (Reuters) - German lawmakers have protested after Wolfgang Schaeuble, the new president of the Bundestag, announced a ban on sending tweets from inside the parliament chamber.
In a letter published in German media on Thursday, the former finance minister told lawmakers that “using devices to photograph, tweet or send messages from the plenary chamber is inappropriate to the proceedings of the Bundestag”.
German politicians are far behind other countries’ in addressing voters via Twitter’s short messaging service, and none comes close to U.S. President Donald Trump - but the measure has not gone unprotested.
“This is not going to be the last word on the matter,” tweeted conservative lawmaker Dorothee Bär, who with more than 64,000 followers is among the biggest Twitter stars of German politics, proving her adeptness with a winking smiley and a string of hashtags.
“You can watch parliamentary sessions live, but we can’t tweet from it,” tweeted her liberal colleague Frank Sitta. “Would a handwritten letter from inside be ok? It makes no sense!”
It was not clear if either of those tweets had been sent from the parliament chamber.
The backlash comes after an election which heard promises to address Germany’s relative slowness in adopting the latest digital technologies. Politicians fear the industrial and export titan’s strength risks being undermined by more nimble digital upstarts from Silicon Valley.
During his decade at the finance ministry, Schaeuble earned a reputation for ruthlessly policing indebted euro zone states’ budgets. Lawmakers chose him for his new job in the hope he would ably discipline a parliament that since September’s national election is more fragmented than ever before.


TRIPOLI (Reuters) - Libya’s U.N.-backed government said on Thursday it was investigating reports of African migrants being sold as slaves and promised to bring the perpetrators to justice.
Footage broadcast by CNN appearing to show African migrants being traded in Libya sparked an international outcry and protests in Europe and Africa.
“There have been direct instructions issued to form an investigative committee so as to uncover the truth and to capture the wrongdoers, and those responsible, and put them before the judiciary,” Libyan Interior Minister Aref al-Khodja told journalists in Tripoli.
“We are now currently waiting for the results of the investigations which I believe are coming to a close.”
The CNN video showed what it said was an auction of men offered to Libyan buyers as farmhands and sold for $400, appearing to confirm earlier reports of the existence of markets for trading migrants in Libya.
Many Libyans reacted with anger to the outcry, with some pointing to a European push to stop migrants from crossing the Mediterranean to Italy that activists say has resulted in a worsening of conditions for migrants inside Libya.
“We call on local and international bodies to cooperate with the Attorney General’s Office and provide any information that helps to reveal the truth,” the U.N.-backed government’s presidency said in a statement.
“We, in Libya, are victims of illegal migration and we are not a source for it,” it added, appealing to foreign powers to help stop flows from migrants’ countries of origin and across Libya’s southern borders.
The U.N. Libya mission said on Wednesday it was “actively pursuing the matter with the Libyan authorities to set up transparent monitoring mechanism that safeguards migrants against horrific human rights abuses”.
Under pressure from Italy, the U.N.-backed government has co-opted local groups and tried to bolster Libya’s coastguard to stem the record flows of migrants crossing the Mediterranean since 2014.
Though sea arrivals to Italy are down almost a third this year, this week was marked by a surge in rescues after several days of bad weather, and one body was recovered, Italy’s coast guard and humanitarian groups said.
On Wednesday, 1,100 migrants were rescued from 11 boats, the coast guard said, and more than 200 were picked up on Thursday.


PALM BEACH, FLORIDA (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump gave a bullish Thanksgiving address to troops overseas on Thursday, hailing progress in Afghanistan and against ISIS, and telling them they were fighting for “something real,” including a stock market at record highs and his promised “big, beautiful fat tax cuts.”
Speaking in a live video teleconference from Palm Beach, Florida, with military personnel serving in Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere, Trump told them they were “very, very special people.”
He called troops in Afghanistan “brave, incredible fighters” who had “turned it around” in the past three to four months.
“We opened it up; we said go ahead, we’re going to fight to win,” he said. “We’re not fighting any more to just walk around, we are fighting to win.”
Trump said the Marines were inflicting “defeat after defeat” on Islamic State, and again credited his change of approach compared to that of the Obama administration.
“They weren’t letting you win before; they were letting you break even. ... They weren’t letting you win,” he said.
Trump told the troops they could look forward at home to the benefits of “big, beautiful fat tax cuts,” a stock market at record highs, jobs and economic growth.
“We’re doing well at home, the economy is doing great,” Trump said. “You’re fighting for something real, you’re fighting for something good.”
Trump took one of his trademark swipes at the news media as he spoke from a lavishly decorated room at his Mar-a-Lago resort, telling the military personnel he was addressing that journalists were in the room, and adding:
“Better me than you; believe me fellas, better me than you.”
Later, Trump and his wife, Melania, handed out sandwiches and shook hands at a Coast Guard station in nearby Riviera Beach and told personnel his administration was building up wealth so it could protect the country through military acquisitions.
Talking about his plans for boosting military spending, he said contractors saved the best equipment for U.S. troops. “When we sell to other countries - you never know about an ally - an ally can turn,” he said.
Trump said he had told the troops overseas the country was “doing great,” thanks to his cuts in “regulation and all the waste and all the abuse.”
“I told them ... you folks are fighting so hard and working so hard, and it’s nice that you’re working for something that’s really starting to work.”
While optimism about a major tax overhaul has helped push the U.S. stock market up for most of this year, Trump is still seeking his first major legislative win after almost a year in office.
According to a majority of economists in a recent Reuters poll, U.S. Republicans are not expected to push the tax cuts through Congress this year. Economists are also sceptical that the legislation would provide a significant boost to the economy.


VIENNA (Reuters) - An international nuclear test-ban body that runs a global network of listening posts designed to check for secret atomic blasts detected an “unusual signal” underwater last week near where an Argentine submarine went missing, it said on Thursday.
The Vienna-based Comprehensive nuclear Test-Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) runs monitoring stations equipped with devices including hydrophones - underwater microphones that scan the oceans for sound waves.
Two of its monitoring stations detected the unusual signal, the CTBTO said in a statement, adding that it was passing the information on to the Argentine authorities coordinating the search for the ARA San Juan, which had 44 crew on board when it went missing last week.
An Argentine navy spokesman said earlier on Thursday that an abnormal sound detected near the submarine’s last known position in the South Atlantic was “consistent with an explosion”, but the CTBTO was more guarded on the possible cause.
“It could be consistent with an explosion but there is no certainty about this,” CTBTO hydroacoustic engineer Mario Zampolli told Reuters. He agreed with the navy spokesman’s description of the signal as unusual and short, adding that the cause was non-natural.
“We can also calculate the time when the event happened in that location and that time is about three and a half hours after the last contact that the sub apparently had, according to what’s out in the news,” he said. The stations that detected it are far apart, in the Atlantic and Indian oceans, he added.


HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe’s stock market has shed $6 billion (£4.51 billion) while its main index has slumped 40 percent since last Wednesday when the military seized power leading to the fall of Robert Mugabe, stock exchange data showed on Thursday.
The main industrial index was at 315.12 points compared with 527.27 points on Wednesday last week when the military announced its takeover and put former president Mugabe under house arrest. On Thursday the index fell 4.4 percent.
The Zimbabwe Stock Exchange had been on a rapid rise in the last two months, driven by investors seeking a safe haven for their investment amid fears of a return to hyperinflation in an economy suffering acute shortages of foreign exchange.
But analysts said the market had entered a period of correction on investor optimism of a change in economic policy in a post-Mugabe era.
Market capitalisation was $9 billion, down from $15 billion last week, bourse data showed.
On the currency front, black market rates for buying cash dollars softened further on Thursday.
Buying $100 using electronic transfer cost $150, down from $180 last week. Some black market traders said they were not buying dollars at all, anticipating further softening of rates.
Zimbabwe adopted the U.S. dollar in 2009, along with Britain’s pound and the South African rand, to tame inflation that topped out at 500 billion percent.
“The market is adjusting back to reality,” an analyst at a Harare-based asset management company said.
“The gains that we had seen were being fuelled by an outlook of a return to hyperinflation, continued isolation of Zimbabwe by international lenders as well as well as a depressed economic outlook.”
An analyst at a local stockbrocking firm said Mnangagwa had hit the right notes with his speech on Wednesday.
Mnangagwa said he wanted to grow the economy, create jobs and for Zimbabwe to re-engage the international community as the country has faced isolation since 1999 when it defaulted on its debt with the International Monetary Fund.
Most of Zimbabwe’s 13 million people remain poor and face currency shortages and sky-high unemployment, something Mnangagwa promised to address.


LUANDA/LONDON (Reuters) - On Oct. 6, with the dust still settling on Angola’s first change of power in 38 years, new President João Lourenço sat down with international oil majors at the presidential palace in Luanda.
The top executives in Angola of Chevron (CVX.N), Total (TOTF.PA), BP (BP.L), Eni (ENI.MI) and Exxon (XOM.N) said the oil sector was being devastated by delays in project approvals at Sonangol and a backlog of payments owed by the state oil company, according to four oil industry sources with knowledge of the meeting.
They warned Lourenço that Angola’s production would decline from 2019 unless swift action was taken to tackle problems at the firm, which was headed by Isabel dos Santos, daughter of his presidential predecessor, the sources said. They declined to be named because the discussions were confidential.
Six weeks later the president fired dos Santos, Africa’s richest woman who is nicknamed the “princess” in Angola.
The oil majors all declined to comment on the meeting. Lourenço’s office and Sonangol did not respond to requests for comment.
It was a highly unusual gathering; foreign oil firms operate nearly all of Angola’s production and hold huge sway, but meeting the president as a united group was almost unheard of.
The nature of the discussions has not been previously reported. The talks, and subsequent events leading up to dos Santos’ dismissal, shed light on the reasons behind her ouster - a decision never officially explained.
They offer new insight into the current state of the most important company in Angola, which relies on oil for a third of its economic output and over 95 percent of exports, and the big challenges facing the new management of the debt-laden firm.
The dismissal also points to the waning power of the dos Santos family, which has dominated Angolan politics and business for decades. Isabel dos Santos’ father José Eduardo had ruled the country since 1979, amassing wealth for his relatives who own companies in almost every part of the economy.
‘NEAR PARALYSIS’
Billionaire dos Santos, who had been Sonangol chair since June 2016, has said she was in the process of restructuring to root out waste and corruption at a company that was struggling even before oil prices plunged in mid-2014.
Her representatives declined to comment for this story, and instead pointed Reuters to two statements, issued in the days after her exit, when she outlined her achievements including reducing debt to $7 billion from $13 billion, raising annual revenue to $15.6 billion from $14.8 billion and cutting costs.
In her departing speech to staff, she said the company had been “nearly bankrupt” when she took over, devastated by the oil-price collapse. “Memories are short,” she added.
However, according to interviews with 10 sources, including the four oil industry sources as well as officials from Sonangol and the government, Lourenço was frustrated with the slow pace of change at the company.
On Oct. 13, a week after meeting the oil majors and 17 days after taking office, the president ordered government ministers, Sonangol and international oil companies to form a 30-day working group to review the state of the industry.
The group’s meetings, many of them led by new Secretary of State for Oil Carlos Saturnino, were tense, the sources said. Saturnino, an oil industry veteran, had been fired by dos Santos from his role as head of production and exploration at Sonangol last year when she accused him of gross mismanagement.
Even though dos Santos had launched a turnaround plan, huge hold-ups in the approval of projects were strangling the oil sector, according to the sources. Her board had implemented a system for checking projects submitted by foreign oil companies which in practice exacerbated the problem, they said.
She had also created a gulf between her board and the rest of the company by surrounding herself with foreign consultants, said the people, who declined to be named due to the confidential nature of the industry review and related discussions.
The working group concluded there was “a near paralysis” at Sonangol, according to a government source.
As the group assessed the state of the industry, Lourenço met with Sonangol’s biggest lenders - including the Bank of China, Standard Bank and Standard Chartered - to understand Sonangol’s financial situation and secure lower lending rates, according to a source familiar with the talks.
“Lourenço realised Sonangol needs money fast,” said the source, adding that the company had been seeking to restructure some payments.
Standard Bank declined to comment, citing client confidentiality, while Standard Chartered and Bank of China did not respond to requests for comment.
Sonangol’s direct debt to Chinese banks and lending consortia including Chinese banks stood at $3.8 billion at the end of 2016, according to the company’s annual report.
Oil industry sources told Reuters this debt now stood at about $3 billion, plus another $3 billion to majors, contractors and traders. Of that, nearly $1 billion is owed to trading firms Trafigura and Vitol under loans guaranteed by oil or product exports, according to a source close to Sonangol.
The government itself also last year took out a further $6.9 billion loan from the China Development Bank that it lent to Sonangol, $3.8 billion of which the firm used to refinance debt, according to an International Monetary Fund report.
Supporters of dos Santos, who are familiar with her work at Sonangol, said the debts dated back to before her tenure. They said the company was now in better financial state. The slow pace of restructuring, they say, was due to the scale of the job and restraints imposed by the state on selling assets.
Her dismissal, according to them, was purely political and part of a campaign by the president against her family.
‘GOLDEN GOOSE’
With consensus in government building fast against dos Santos, she responded with a charm offensive.
In London, she met CEOs of major oil companies at an industry conference. On Oct. 18, she did a rare live interview at the Reuters office in the city’s Canary Wharf financial district.
In the Reuters interview, she described her relationship with the new president as one of “full alignment”. But she gave a hint that her days at Sonangol may be numbered, when asked if she would stay to see through the transformation of the firm.
“Once the foundations have been laid and are right, it doesn’t matter who steps in as long as the plan is good,” said dos Santos, who has stakes in businesses from telecoms to diamonds.
The charm offensive was too little, too late.
On Nov. 15, dos Santos and most of her board were sacked. She was replaced by the man that had become her nemesis: Saturnino.
Foundations notwithstanding, the new management faces the tasks of getting projects moving again, repaying billions of dollars owed to oil majors, contractors and traders, and servicing billions more dollars of debt owed to Chinese banks.
An executive at Sonangol said a massive round of lay-offs had been delayed until after the election and the task would also now most likely fall to the new team.
Lourenço, however, appeared confident of Sonangol’s potential when he attended the board’s inauguration on Oct. 16, describing the company as a “golden goose”.
“Take good care of her,” he said.


PARIS (Reuters) - Forty people were arrested and 500 people rescued after a swoop on human trafficking across West Africa, international police organisation Interpol said on Thursday.
The Interpol-led action comes amid a global outcry sparked by footage of Africans being solved as slaves in Libya, often the final transit for migrants wanting to reach Europe.
In a statement, Interpol said that some 500 people, including 236 minors, had been rescued in simultaneous operations across Chad, Mali, Mauritania, Niger and Senegal. Forty suspected traffickers were arrested.
“The results of this operation underline the challenge faced by law enforcement and all stakeholders in addressing human trafficking in the Sahel region,” said the operation’s coordinator Innocentia Apovo.
The 40 arrested face prosecution for offences including human trafficking, forced labour and child exploitation.
“They are accused of forcing victims to engage in activities ranging from begging to prostitution, with little to no regard for working conditions or human life,” the statement said.


PARIS (Reuters) - Cambodia’s Prime Minister Hun Sen will be driven from power like President Mugabe in Zimbabwe, veteran opposition chief Sam Rainsy told Reuters on Thursday, adding that Western states should impose targeted sanctions after his party was dissolved.
The opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party (CNRP) was banned at the government’s request last week, deepening Hun Sen’s fight with Western donors who accuse him of demolishing democracy in the country he has ruled for over 32 years.
Rainsy resigned in February from the party, saying he feared it would be banned if he did not. Defamation convictions that he calls politically motivated drove him to flee Cambodia for France in 2015.
“Cambodia is at a tipping point. The people are fed up with Hun Sen and what is happening in Zimbabwe is inspiring,” Rainsy told Reuters in an interview.
“Mugabe has fallen and it will soon be the turn of Hun Sen, who has become unacceptably anachronistic.”
Mugabe, who had led Zimbabwe from independence in 1980, stepped down on Tuesday after the army seized power and the ruling party turned against him.
Hun Sen’s government called for the CNRP ban after arresting its leader Kem Sokha on Sept. 3. It charged him with treason for an alleged plot to take over the Southeast Asian country with the help of the United States.
His opponents say the charges were intended to eliminate Kem Sokha from next year’s election so the strongman, who is currently the world’s longest serving prime minister, can extend his rule.
Rainsy, who announced his return to politics on Nov. 15, described the party ban as “just on paper”.
He said the opposition needed to demonstrate that it continued to garner “strong support” after winning some 3 million votes in the 2013 elections, and push Cambodia’s main western donors to shy away from the Phnom Penh government.
“What is important is to show Hun Sen that what he did was unacceptable. The world is not going to do business as usual with this government ... and needs to tell him it would never recognise a government that came out of these elections,” he said.
According to a recording leaked online on Thursday, Hun Sen has warned his party it could still lose the vote even after the CNRP was banned, and he demanded that it improve its image.
Western countries have condemned the government’s crackdown on the opposition, civil rights groups and independent media and have called for the release of Kem Sokha to allow credible elections.
Washington has said it is cutting planned aid for holding elections and will take further steps.
France, which ruled the country for almost a century before its 1953 independence, on Thursday said the government needed to abide by a democratic process.
Hun Sen, a former commander in the ultra-leftist Khmer Rouge led by Pol Pot which is blamed for the deaths of around two million people in the 1970s, has brushed off Western criticism, and warned that trade sanctions will hurt the people first.
Rainsy said the U.S. and European Union should initially withdraw all assistance for the elections and impose targeted sanctions ranging from visa bans to asset freezes.
He stopped short of calling for economic sanctions, saying that this could be used further down the line.
“We need personal sanctions that target individuals so that it won’t hurt the people, but (hurt) the leaders who have hidden their ill-amassed fortunes abroad. They react when their personal interests are hurt,” he said.
When asked about Hun Sen increasingly turning to China, Cambodia’s biggest donor, Rainsy said he believed the relationship would eventually unravel.
“China looks beyond Hun Sen. No government is stupid enough to continue to bet on him. What is happening in Cambodia now is reminiscent of the Khmer Rouge era. Pol Pot was isolated from the world and relied on China, but ... when it didn’t need him it threw him out.”


BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Iraqi forces launched an operation on Thursday to clear the desert bordering Syria of Islamic State in a final push to rid Iraq of the militant group, the military said.
Troops from the Iraqi army and mainly Shi‘ite paramilitaries known as Popular Mobilisation Forces (PMF) were taking part in the campaign against militants hiding in a large strip of border land, Iraqi military officials said.
“The objective behind the operation is to prevent remaining Daesh groups from melting into the desert region and using it as a base for future attacks,” said army colonel Salah Kareem, referring to Islamic State by an Arabic acronym.
Islamic State fighters who ruled over millions of people in both Iraq and Syria since proclaiming their “caliphate” in 2014, have been largely defeated in both countries this year, pushed out of all population centres to empty desert near the border.
Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said on Tuesday  Islamic State had been defeated from a military perspective, but he would declare final victory only after the militants were routed in the desert.
In the latest operation, Iraqi forces had “purified” 77 villages and exerted control over a bridge and an airport, operations commander Lieutenant General Abdul Ameer Rasheed Yarallah said in a statement. Over 5,800 squared kilometres had been “purified,” he added.
On Friday Iraqi forces captured the border town of Rawa, the last remaining town under Islamic State control. Iraqi army commanders say the military campaign will continue until all the frontier with Syria is secured to prevent Islamic State from launching cross border attacks.
“We will completely secure the desert from all terrorist groups of Daesh and declare Iraq clean of those germs,” said army Brigadier General Shakir Kadhim.
Army officials said troops advancing through sprawling desert towards the Syria border are facing landmines and roadside bombs placed by retreating militants.
“We need to clean scattered villages from terrorists to make sure they no longer operate in the desert area with Syria,” said army Lieutenant-Colonel Ahmed Fairs.
Iraqi military helicopters provided cover for the advancing troops and destroyed at least three vehicles used by militants as they were trying to flee a village in the western desert, said the army officer.
Islamic State’s self-declared caliphate has swiftly collapsed since July, when U.S.-backed Iraqi forces captured Mosul, the group’s de facto capital in Iraq, after a gruelling battle that had lasted nine months.
Driven also from its other main bastion in Syria’s Raqqa, Islamic State has since been gradually squeezed into an ever-shrinking pocket of desert straddling the Syria-Iraq frontier, pursued by a range of enemies that include most regional states and global powers.
The group’s leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, is believed to be hiding in the stretch of desert which runs along the border of both countries.


DUBLIN (Reuters) - Ireland has not yet seen sufficient progress on the issue of the border with Northern Ireland to allow Brexit talks to move on to the second phase on trade next month, Foreign Minister Simon Coveney said on Thursday.
“We need a lot more clarity and a lot more credibility around the parameters by which we will work out how to maintain the largely invisible border on the island of Ireland in the future,” Coveney told a parliamentary committee regarding one of the three issues Brussels wants broadly solved before the talks can move on.


BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - An abnormal sound detected in the South Atlantic ocean around the time that an Argentine navy submarine sent its last signal last week was “consistent with an explosion,” a navy spokesman said on Thursday.
Spokesman Enrique Balbi described the blast in the morning of Nov. 15 as “abnormal, singular, short, violent” and “non-nuclear.” A huge sea and air hunt is being conducted for the ARA San Juan, which went missing with 44 crew on board.


GENEVA (Reuters) - The Saudi-led coalition’s blockade of Yemen, which has cut off food imports to a population where 7 million people are on the brink of famine, is “illegal collective punishment” of civilians, a prominent aid official said on Thursday.
Major agencies said aid was still blocked a day after the Saudi-led military coalition said it would let humanitarian supplies in.
The U.S.-backed coalition fighting Houthi rebels in Yemen said on Wednesday it would allow aid in through the port of Hodeidah, as well as U.N. flights to the capital Sanaa, more than two weeks after blockading the country.
“We have not yet had any movement as of now,” said Jens Laerke, spokesman of the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance.
Jan Egeland, a former U.N. aid chief who now heads the Norwegian Refugee Council, said of the blockade: “In my view this is illegal collective punishment.”
Egeland, whose group helps 1 million Yemenis, welcomed the coalition announcement as a “step in the right direction”, but added: “We only have it in writing now and haven’t seen it happen.”
The coalition closed air, land and sea access on Nov. 6 to stop the flow of arms to the Houthis from Iran. The action came after Saudi Arabia intercepted a missile fired towards Riyadh. Iran has denied supplying weapons.
“Sending a missile in the direction of Riyadh is really very bad. But those who are suffering from the blockade had nothing to do with this missile,” Egeland told Reuters while in Geneva.
“Even if both the flights and humanitarian shipments will go through now, it is not solving the underlying crisis that a country that needs 90 percent of its goods imported is not getting in commercial food or fuel.”
Houthi authorities who control the capital Sanaa were also imposing restrictions on access for aid workers, he said.
The United Nations says some 7 million Yemenis are on the brink of famine and 945,000 have been infected since April with cholera. More than 2,200 people have died.
U.N. officials have submitted requests to the coalition for deliveries via Hodeidah and Sanaa, and the “hope and expectation” was that the vital aid pipelines would re-open on Friday, the U.N.’s Laerke said.
The International Committee of the Red Cross said it was vital to get commercial traffic resumed.
“Yemenis will need more than aid in order to survive the crisis and ward off famine,” spokeswoman Iolanda Jaquemet said.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia’s defence ministry said on Thursday long-range bombers had carried out air strikes on Islamic State targets in Syria’s Deir al-Zor province, the RIA news agency reported.


BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The sweet smell of waffles is familiar in Belgium but on Thursday people were left choking as a fire at a waffle factory sent a dense black cloud across Brussels, disrupting some rail traffic in the capital.
Police said the blaze at the Milcamps factory, which produces the national sweet treat in various regional variants, broke out at lunchtime. It was not immediately clear what started it or whether anyone was hurt.
“A lot of smoke has been emitted and we are advising people to keep doors and windows shut and to stay inside. Drivers should close air vents in their cars,” local police said.
A sharp smell of burnt waffle caused coughing in the city centre, 6 km (4 miles), from the blaze.
Belgian waffles, traditionally sold from mobile vendors and street kiosks, have become popular around the world. They are batter cooked between hotplates patterned according to various regional traditions and dusted with icing sugar.
Their history dates back to the wafers baked for Mass in the mediaeval monasteries of the Low Countries.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives are rallying around her despite the failure of talks to form a three-way ruling coalition, buying her time in office and putting the onus on her Social Democrat rivals to break Germany’s political impasse.
Resolute conservative support for Merkel is significant, as some members of the Social Democratic Party (SPD) have said privately their price for a re-run of its ‘grand coalition’ with the conservatives would be Merkel’s head.
The collapse late on Sunday of the coalition talks, which followed an inconclusive Sept. 24 election, has plunged Germany into the worst political crisis since the end of World War Two.
President Frank-Walter Steinmeier, who is trying to broker a deal, is keenly aware the source of Germany’s international clout is its economic power and that businesses want a stable coalition soon to end the uncertainty and avoid another poll.
SPD leader Martin Schulz, whose party is the second biggest in Germany and was the junior coalition partner to Merkel’s conservative bloc in the last parliament, has insisted the SPD should rebuild in opposition after heavy losses in September.
But with Merkel secure for now at the helm of her Christian Democrats (CDU), the pressure shifts to the SPD to help form a coalition after the failure of the chancellor’s three-way talks with the liberal Free Democrats (FDP) and Greens.
Surveys suggest going to the polls again would deliver a similar outcome to September’s result. Furthermore, 58 percent of voters want Merkel to remain chancellor, an Infratest Dimap poll for broadcaster ARD showed this week.
‘NUMBER ONE’
While the SPD prevaricates, Merkel looks reasonable for trying to resolve the impasse.
“One thing is clear: Angela Merkel’s position in the CDU is very strong. She is our Number One,” David McAllister, a CDU executive committee member, told Reuters.
Her party believes she did all she could to forge a three-way coalition. Merkel’s efforts also improved ties with the CDU’s Bavarian allies in the conservative bloc, the Christian Social Union (CSU), which had been strained over immigration.
Another senior CDU official said there was no question of sacrificing Merkel as the party had no credible alternative.
A third senior CDU official, Volker Kauder, leader of the conservative parliamentary group in the lower house of parliament, said he hoped the Social Democrats would change their minds about rejecting another grand coalition.
Steinmeier is due to meet Schulz on Thursday at 1400 GMT as part of his efforts to help facilitate a coalition government and avoid more elections.
Asked about the possibility of the SPD supporting a Merkel-led minority government or entering a new grand coalition, an SPD spokesman pointed to Schulz’s meeting with Steinmeier and said, “then we will see what comes afterwards”.
A former SPD leader, Steinmeier is meeting leaders from all parties in parliament this week and wants them to make agreement on a new government possible “in the near future”.
Only after a new government has formed is Merkel’s position likely to come under pressure - and even then, not immediately.
Her mentor, Helmut Kohl, and Konrad Adenauer, who led Germany’s rebirth after World War Two, are the only post-war chancellors to have ruled Germany longer than her.
Merkel, 63, only decided to run again last November after thinking long and hard. She said then she was seeking to stay on “if health allows”. In 1998, she was quoted as saying: “I don’t want to be a half-dead wreck when I leave politics.”
She appears in robust health, but given she has already held power for 12 years, questions will inevitably arise about who will succeed her before she is half way through any new four-year term. Potential successors are not circling just yet.
“She will have probably a year or so after a government is formed before the question of her succession becomes an overwhelming issue in German domestic politics,” said Jan Techau at the American Academy in Berlin.
“The moment that starts, her power will be greatly diminished.”
But first, Merkel must form a new government. If Steinmeier fails to convince the SPD to enter a new grand coalition, other options include a three-way coalition after all, a Merkel-led minority government, or new elections.
“Since snap elections won’t change relative strengths, my prediction is ... another grand coalition between the only two parties that have learned to compromise,” said Josef Joffe, publisher-editor of weekly Die Zeit.
Bild newspaper reported on Wednesday that some SPD deputies were now questioning their party’s rejection of a renewed grand coalition.
Changing course and teaming up with Merkel again may require a change of leadership at the SPD and there could yet be a shake out at a party conference in early December.
“The pressure needs to build up within the Social Democratic party,” said Techau.
He said Merkel should focus on being a responsible caretaker chancellor until a new government forms. “She just needs to play her own game well and then she can survive.”


BEIJING (Reuters) - Beijing has ordered local governments across China not to fuel “religious crazes” to boost tourism and grow their economies.
Sites of religious significance are banned from charging high entrance fees, according to guidelines released on Thursday by departments including the State Administration of Religious Affairs (SARA), aimed specifically at Buddhist and Taoist temples.
Local governments are also discouraged from erecting large religious effigies and building temples in non-religious locations for the sake of attracting tourists.
Religion has seen a revival in China in the last 30 years as the officially atheist Communist Party has relaxed its once-severe repression.
Buddhism and Taoism have tens of millions of followers. In recent years some temples have been converted into museums by local authorities, and tourists required to buy tickets.
In other cases, officials and developers build parks and lakes around temples and demand that the resident clergy share revenue from entrance fees.
Authorities say they will also crack down on the hiring of bogus monks or the holding of fake rituals to reap donations.
Temples are allowed to engage in commercial activities, such as publishing books or selling religious objects, but they should be for the maintenance of the temples or for charity programmes, said a SARA statement.


BRUSSELS (Reuters) - British Prime Minister Theresa May will meet European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and his chief Brexit negotiator in Brussels on Monday, Dec. 4, the EU executive confirmed on Thursday.
EU officials hope that May will make new offers to unblock negotiations on a treaty on Britain’s 2019 withdrawal from the Union. They say any British move needs to come by around Dec. 4 if leaders meeting at a Dec. 14-15 are to be able to endorse a move to a new phase of talks, to include future trade relations.
On Friday, May will meet European Council President Donald Tusk in Brussels as part of what EU officials describe as a bid to agree the “choreography” of a deal in December.
Confirming the Juncker-May meeting, the Commission’s chief spokesman told reporters they would discuss Brexit but declined to comment further on the state of negotiations. “Everyone is talking to everyone, already, at all levels,” he said.
No comment was immediately available from May’s office.
Envoys from the 27 other member states agreed on Wednesday to delay by a week until Wednesday, Dec. 6, a meeting to prepare the drafts of the summit conclusions, diplomats said.
Those conclusions will determine whether leaders agree that Britain has made “sufficient progress” toward agreeing divorce terms for the summit to approve new talks on a post-Brexit relationship.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia’s defence ministry has sent an oceanographic research ship to the South Atlantic to help with the search for an Argentine submarine which went missing more than a week ago, TASS news agency reported on Thursday.
The vessel, called Yantar (Amber), is equipped with two self-propelled deep submergence vehicles allowing it to examine underwater areas up to 6,000 metres (3.75 miles) deep, TASS quoted the Russian military as saying.
Dozens of planes and boats are searching for the San Juan submarine. The search entered a “critical phase” on Wednesday as the 44 crew on board could be running low on oxygen, an Argentine navy spokesman said.
If the German-built submarine, in service for more than three decades, had sunk or was otherwise unable to rise to the surface since it gave its last location on Nov. 15, it would be using up the last of its seven-day oxygen supply.


BAHIA BLANCA, Argentina (Reuters) - A U.S. Navy plane detected an object near the area where a missing Argentine navy submarine sent its last signal during a search flight over the South Atlantic, a Reuters witness said on Thursday after traveling on board the plane.
The crew emphasized that the object could not be identified and it was not known if it was related to the ARA San Juan, which went missing more than a week ago with 44 crew on board.
The plane, a P-8A Poseidon, returned to its base in Bahia Blanca, Argentina late on Wednesday. It was one of dozens of Argentine and foreign boats and planes hunting for the submarine.


JALALABAD, Afghanistan (Reuters) - Islamic State beheaded 15 of its own fighters due to infighting in Afghanistan’s eastern province of Nangarhar, officials said, while a separate suicide attack on Thursday tore into a crowd in the provincial capital, Jalalabad, killing at least eight.
The two incidents underline the insecurity and lawlessness across Afghanistan, where thousands of civilians have been killed or wounded this year amid unrelenting violence involving militant groups including Islamic State and the Taliban.
In a bloody day for the province, a suicide bomber blew himself up, killing at least eight people at a meeting of supporters of a police commander who was sacked for illegal land grabbing.
There was no claim of responsibility and no immediate indication of who was behind the attack on the crowd in Jalalabad, which had gathered to demand the reinstatement of the commander, who survived the attack.
A spokesman for the Jalalabad hospital confirmed eight people had been killed and 15 wounded.
Nangarhar, on the porous border with Pakistan, has become a stronghold for Islamic State, generally known as Daesh in Afghanistan, which has grown to become one of the country’s most dangerous militant groups since it appeared around the start of 2015.
Attaullah Khogyani, the provincial governor’s spokesman, said the 15 Islamic State fighters were executed after a bout of infighting in the group, which has become notorious for its brutality. The killings occurred in the Surkh Ab bazaar of Achin district.
Further details were not available and there was no confirmation from Islamic State, whose local branch is known as Islamic State in Khorasan, an old name for the area that includes modern Afghanistan.
The Taliban and Islamic State have frequently fought each other in Nangarhar and both have been targeted by sustained U.S. air strikes.
But the exact nature of the relationship between the two groups is little understood. There have been isolated incidents in Afghanistan in which the fighters of both appear to have cooperated.
Afghan intelligence documents reviewed by Reuters this year showed security officials believe Islamic State is present in nine provinces, from Nangarhar and Kunar in the east to Jawzjan, Faryab and Badakhshan in the north and Ghor in the central west.


LASHKAR GAH, Afghanistan/KABUL (Reuters) - As U.S. and Afghan forces pound Taliban drug factories this week, farmers in the country’s largest opium producing-province and narcotics experts say the strategy just repeats previous failed efforts to stamp out the trade.
U.S. Army General John Nicholson, who heads NATO-led forces in Afghanistan, announced on Monday a new strategy of attacking opium factories, saying he wanted to hit the Taliban “where it hurts, in their narcotics financing”.
Critics say the policy risks further civilian casualties and turning large swathes of the population dependent on poppy cultivation against the Afghan government.
“The Taliban will not be affected by this as much as ordinary people,” said Mohammad Nabi, a poppy farmer in Nad Ali district in the southern province of Helmand, the heartland of opium production.
“Farmers are not growing poppies for fun. If factories are closed and businesses are gone, then how will they provide food for their families?”
Opium production in Afghanistan reached record highs this year, up 87 percent, according to the United Nations.
The U.N. Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) said last week that output of opium from poppy seeds in Afghanistan, the world’s main source of heroin, stood at around 9,000 metric tons in 2017, worth an estimated $1.4 billion on leaving the farms.
In Helmand, cultivation area increased 79 percent.
Publicising the new strategy, which he said was open-ended, Nicholson showed one video of an F-22 fighter jet dropping 250-pound bombs on two buildings, emphasising that a nearby third building was left unscathed.
U.S. troops have long been accused of causing unnecessary collateral damage and civilian deaths. The United States says it takes every precaution to avoid civilian casualties.
The four-star general emphasised that farmers were not the targets.
“They are largely compelled to grow the poppy and this is kind of a tragic part of the story,” said Nicholson.
“WHACK-A-MOLE”
Experts, however, question whether the new strategy will have an impact on Taliban financing.
“All these things have been tried before and not produced effective results. If they had, we wouldn’t be where we are now,” said Orzala Nemat, director of the Kabul-based Afghanistan Research and Evaluation Unit, which has been researching the country’s drug trade for a decade and a half.
Another analyst said it was simply a futile game of “whack-a-mole.”
Those familiar with the drug industry in Afghanistan said it would only take three or four days to replace a lab, which generally has a low sunk-cost. They also say it was not just the Taliban involved in Afghanistan’s drug trade.
“Drugs are elemental to the political economy of Afghanistan, to those who rule and to those who oppose that rule,” said one analyst, asking not to be named.
Prior to being ousted by U.S.-led forces in 2001, the Taliban virtually eliminated the trade, saying it was forbidden by Islam.
The United States and its Western allies, the Afghan government and United Nations have made repeated efforts since to eradicate poppy cultivation, including encouraging farmers to cultivate alternatives such as saffron, spraying poppy fields with herbicide, and destroying labs.
However, they have not made any serious headway in stemming the rise in drug production.
The issue underlines problems faced by the Afghan government and its allies, as they seek to cut off a major source of financing for the Taliban and stem the flow of drugs to Europe.
The Taliban said that U.S. forces were mistaken in their targeting and were hitting civilians.
“There are no drug producing factories in these areas. Invading Americans are carrying out these attacks based on false information and to make propaganda, which most of its victims are civilians,” said Taliban spokesman Qari Yousuf Ahmadi on Wednesday.
Although World Bank projections show Afghanistan’s economy picking up modestly, the improvement is more than offset by population growth, leaving many in rural areas saying they have no alternative to growing poppies.
“The government must provide jobs so people can feed their families and survive,” said poppy farmer Haji Daoud in Sangin, Helmand. “It should provide security and infrastructure.”


JERUSALEM (Reuters) - A top Israeli diplomat was rebuked by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Thursday for suggesting that American Jews have a poor commitment to service in the U.S. military.
Asked in an English-language television interview about criticism of Israeli policies by some U.S. Jews, Deputy Foreign Minister Tzipi Hotovely questioned whether “people that never send their children to fight for their country” could understand the “complexity” of the Middle east.
“Most of the Jews don’t have children serving as soldiers, going to the Marines, going to Afghanistan or to Iraq,” she said on i24 TV news on Wednesday.
“They don’t feel how it feels to be attacked by rockets, and I think part of it is to actually experience what Israel is dealing with on a daily basis,” said Hotovely, a member of Netanyahu’s right-wing Likud party.
While Israel has often quarrelled with American Jews over their right to advise it from afar, Hotovely’s remarks went further by appearing to insinuate they are not fully committed to their native country, a notion U.S. Jewish organizations have long fought against in their battle against anti-Semitism.
In a statement, Netanyahu, who also serves as Israel’s foreign minister, denounced Hotovely’s comments as “hurtful”.
“There is no place for such a harangue and her remarks do not reflect the State of Israel’s position,” the statement said.
According to a 2009 survey published by the congressionally-mandated Military Leadership Diversity Commission, an estimated 1.09 percent of the members of the U.S. armed forces are Jewish. The Pew Research Center estimated in 2013 that Jews make up about 2 percent of the U.S. adult population.
The website of the National Museum of American Jewish Military History in Washington lists more than 50 Jewish service members killed in Iraq and Afghanistan since 2001.


LONDON (Reuters) - Iran has told jailed Iranian-British aid worker Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe that she will appear in court next month accused of spreading propaganda, her husband, Richard, said on Thursday.
“She’s been told she will appear in court on Dec. 10,” he told Reuters. He said that he understood she would appear in court charged with spreading propaganda.
Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, a project manager with the Thomson Reuters Foundation, was sentenced to five years after being convicted by an Iranian court of plotting to overthrow the clerical establishment. She denies the charges.
Zaghari-Ratcliffe’s fate become a major political issue in Britain after Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson made remarks on Nov. 1 that appeared to cast doubt on statements from her employer about what she had been doing in Iran.
The Thomson Reuters Foundation, a charity organisation that is independent of Thomson Reuters and operates independently of Reuters News, said she had been on holiday.
Johnson told a parliamentary committee he understood she had been teaching people journalism before her arrest in April 2016. He later apologised for his remarks. The Thomson Reuters Foundation said she had not been training journalists in Iran.
Iranian state television has said Johnson’s comments showed Zaghari-Ratcliffe’s guilt and that she was involved in spying.


PALONG KHALI, Bangladesh (Reuters) - Mohammad Ayas, a 12-year-old Rohingya refugee in the sprawling Palong Khali camp, is busy hawking piazu, a fried mixture of onions, lentils and spices.
The 150 portions of piazu, made by his mother from the aid package the family received after fleeing violence in Myanmar, sell for 1 taka each, or a little more than 1 U.S. cent.
“I started my trading here with the relief I got,” Mohammad told Reuters. “I did not buy anything. I got this relief package five days ago and my mum made this piazu this morning.”
Myanmar’s Rohingya Muslims have endured killings, arson and rape by Myanmar troops and ethnic Rakhine Buddhist vigilantes since Aug. 25, in response to Rohingya insurgent attacks on security posts, the United Nations says.
It says problems like children trafficking existed in Bangladesh’s camps, even before they were overwhelmed by the more than 600,000 new arrivals.
Now, driven by a need for food and other essentials, trade is starting to thrive in the Palong Khali camp, located about 4 km (2.5 miles) from the Naf River that marks the border between Bangladesh and Myanmar.
For the photo essay on trading inside the camps click on: reut.rs/2A5Sg7v
Some refugees are returning to their previous occupations to eke out a living.
Abul Fayaj, a 50-year-old vegetable seller from Buthidaung township in Rakhine, now sells green chillies to residents of the camp.
He said a Bangladeshi lent him money for the chillies, which he sells for 200 taka ($2.39) per kg, higher than the local market price of 130 taka per kg.
“I don’t have the money to take lots of food, that’s why I have to take a loan,” he said.
“I have to pay more to the lender who gave me the money to buy the vegetables, so there is only a small profit,” said Fayaj, adding he takes home 100 taka a day.
Obaidul Mannan, 40, with five daughters and two sons, traded clocks in Myanmar until the military came to his village, arresting people and burning homes.
He now sells betel nut that he bought with 9 grams (0.3 ounces) of gold that belonged to his wife. His complaints are common to shopkeepers everywhere.
“The problem I’m facing here is that I‘m selling next door to traders who are also selling the same items,” he said.
Some Bangladeshi shopkeepers have hired Rohingya to run shops within the camp.
Kalim Ullah, 42, fled from the Buthidaung area with his wife, six sons and a daughter.
He used to transport goods in Myanmar, but was told that Rohingya could not own a business in Bangladesh. Ullah joined up with a local business owner and now sells snacks and red chillies in the camp for a daily wage of 100 taka.
Two Bangladesh government officials confirmed that the refugees are not legally allowed to own businesses in the country since they are not citizens.
“We are giving all kind of humanitarian assistance. They are not our citizens,” said a senior home ministry official. “The Myanmar government will have to take them back.”
Bangladeshis are aware of the opportunities that the Rohingya exodus provides for trade and a number of them have moved closer to the camps.
Abdur Razzak, 26, sells knives, pots and water buckets in the Palong Khali camp where he set up shop three months ago.
After paying rent on his shop, wages for two assistants and transporting goods from the town of Ukhia, about 9 km (5.4 miles) north of the camp, Razzak earns about 500 taka profit on sales of 2,000 taka.
“I‘m not making a lot of money. I just profit a little,” he said.


BERN (Reuters) - European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said on Thursday that it would be seen in the next few days whether Brexit talks with Britain had made enough progress to enter a second phase of negotiations.
“We are in intense negotiation with the UK to end the first phase of the talks about topics such as citizen rights, the ‘Ireland problem’, the bill that will have to be paid,” Juncker told a news conference during an official visit to Switzerland.
“The worst is behind us, but there has not been sufficient progress for me to say that we can enter the second phase of the talks about our relationship in the future. We’ll see that within the next few days,” he said.
Asked about a report the UK could pay 45 billion pounds for its Brexit divorce, he said: “I‘m not crazy enough to give an immediate answer to the question.”


BEIJING (Reuters) - China’s air force has again flown bombers and other warplanes through two strategic channels near Taiwan and also over the disputed South China Sea during training drills, state media said on Thursday.
Numerous H-6K bombers and other jets recently flew through the Bashi Channel between Taiwan and the Philippines and the Miyako Strait in Japan’s south, and also over the South China Sea on a “combat patrol”, the official Xinhua news agency said, citing Air Force spokesman Shen Jinke.
Shen did not say when the drills began but said all planes had finished their patrols on Thursday, which were intended to “improve maritime real combat capabilities and forge the forces’ battle methods”.
China has been increasingly asserting itself in territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas. It is also worried about Taiwan, run by a government China fears is intent on independence.
Beijing has never ruled out the use of force to bring proudly democratic Taiwan under its control, and has warned that any moves towards formal independence could prompt an armed response.
China is in the midst of an ambitious military modernisation programme that includes building aircraft carriers and developing stealth fighters to give it the ability to project power far from its shores.
Taiwan is well armed, mostly with U.S. weaponry, but has been pressing Washington to sell it more high-tech equipment to better deter China.


YANGON (Reuters) - The U.S. labelling of a Myanmar army crackdown on Rohingya Muslims as “ethnic cleansing” is unhelpful and could aggravate the situation, Russia’s ambassador to the southeast Asian nation said on Thursday, criticising “excessive external intervention”.
Rights groups have accused the military in mostly Buddhist Myanmar of carrying out mass rape and other atrocities during a ferocious military sweep launched in late August in retaliation for attacks by Rohingya Muslim militants in Rakhine State.
That drove 620,000 Rohingya refugees, many traumatised with gunshot wounds and burns, to flee to Bangladesh, joining hundreds of thousands who have sheltered there for years after previous spasms of violence in the former Burma.
The military operation  amounted to “ethnic cleansing”, the United States said on Wednesday, echoing an accusation first made by top U.N. officials in the early days of the humanitarian crisis.
“I don’t think that it will help to solve this problem,” Russian ambassador Nikolay Listopadov told Reuters in an interview in Yangon, when asked about the U.S. move.
“On the contrary, it can aggravate the situation, throw more fuel,” he said in English, citing concern over how the Buddhist community in Rakhine would react to such a designation.
This month, Russia and China agreed to a UN Security Council statement urging Myanmar to “ensure no further excessive use of military force” and expressing “grave concern over reports of human rights violations”, but they have opposed tougher steps and further pressure on Myanmar.
“We are against excessive external intervention, because it won’t lead to any constructive results,” Listopadov said. “Just pressure and blaming and accusing - it simply won’t work.”
On a visit to Myanmar last week, U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson urged the government of Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi to lead a credible and impartial inquiry, saying those who committed abuses should be held responsible.
But prospects for such an inquiry remain dim and Suu Kyi’s government refused to cooperate with a mission launched by the United Nations Human Rights Council in March after a less intense bout of violence in Rakhine.
The “so-called independent investigation” demanded by Tillerson was “absolutely” out of the question for Myanmar, Listopadov said.
“It’s absolutely not acceptable for the Myanmar side - it will never accept it...it won’t work - it’s counterproductive,” said Listopadov. “Independent investigation means international (investigation) - no, it’s not acceptable.”
Moscow’s approach was for the Rakhine issue to be solved by “political means, political dialogue,” he added, without elaborating.
He welcomed talks being held in Myanmar’s capital of Naypyitaw between Myanmar and Bangladesh on the repatriation of Rohingya refugees, stressing it was “important to start this process.”
“We wish them success,” said Listopadov, “this complicated Rakhine issue can be solved mostly only by negotiations and agreements between the two sides, because they’re the most involved,” he said, referring to Bangladesh and Myanmar.
China wants closer ties with Myanmar’s military to help protect regional peace and security, a senior Chinese general told the visiting head of the southeast Asian country’s army this week.


YANGON (Reuters) - Myanmar and Bangladesh signed a memorandum of understanding on Thursday, a senior Myanmar official told Reuters, for the return home of hundreds of thousands of Rohingya refugees who fled to the neighbouring country to escape a Myanmar army crackdown.
“We are ready to take them back as soon as possible after Bangladesh sends the forms back to us,” said Myint Kyaing, a permanent secretary at Myanmar’s ministry of labour, immigration and population, referring to registration forms the Rohingya must complete with personal details before repatriation.


SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australia called on Thursday on the United States to build a strong presence in Asia and bolster ties with “like-minded” partners while warning against China’s rising influence.
A more insular United States would be detrimental to the liberal nature of the world’s “rules-based order”, the government said in a 115-page foreign policy white paper.
“Australia believes that international challenges can only be tackled effectively when the world’s wealthiest, most innovative and most powerful country is engaged in solving them,” the government said.
The white paper is a guide for Australian diplomacy and provides a roadmap for advancing its interests.
The election of President Donald Trump represented a step towards a more isolationist world, which could be negative for Australia’s export-dependent economy, commentators have said.
Trump withdrew from the Trans-Pacific Partnership regional trade agreement in January, shortly after he took office.
“Strong and sustained U.S. engagement in the international system remains fundamental to international stability and prosperity,” the government said in the paper.
“Without such engagement, the effectiveness and liberal character of the international order would erode.”
Australia is one of the staunchest U.S. allies and troops from the two countries have fought alongside each other in all major conflicts for generations.
But the economic growth and power that the United States has enjoyed since the end of the World War Two is now being challenged by China, Australia said.
Australia and China have close economic ties but China is suspicious of Australia’s close military relationship with the United States.
‘TENSIONS, BENEFITS’
Australia warned in the paper of risks it faces, particularly in the “Indo-Pacific region” due to a shift in the balance of power.
While the government recognised the economic benefits from China’s rise, it was also trying to “wish China away”, said Jane Golley, deputy director at the Australian Centre on China in the World, Australian National University.
“To actually drop the word ‘Asia’ from ‘Asia-Pacific’ undoes three decades of diplomatic effort,” Golley said, referring to the use of the phrase “Indo-Pacific” which came up 120 times in the paper. “Asia-Pacific” was not used once.
The United States and some of its allies have recently been talking up their vision of the “Indo-Pacific”, instead of the “Asia-Pacific”, in a play on words aimed at undermining the influence of China.
“There is a small reference to China’s geo-economic strategy in the paper but the emphasis is on the tensions that could create, rather than the economic benefits,” Golley said.
“We’ll have to see how China reacts to this but they’re not going to like this policy.”
Relations between Australia and China sank to a low point this year after Australia rejected high-profile Chinese investments, citing “national interest”.
Australia has also shown little enthusiasm for China’s  ambitious Belt and Road initiative, which aims to connect China to Europe and beyond with infrastructure projects.
The initiative was mentioned just once in the paper.
“We are not embracing the future,” Golley said.
“We are holding on to the past and reaching on to the life jacket rather than thinking of building a whole new ship.”


BEIJING (Reuters) - Some northern Chinese cities failed to improve air quality by much last month, hitting the smog-prone region’s overall results in a drive against pollution, the government said as it warned provincial officials to comply with stringent steps to clear the skies.
“Some cities did not improve air quality by much or even experienced some volatility, and in a way, they have dragged down the regional air quality level,” Ministry of Environmental Protection (MEP) spokesperson, Liu Youbin, said at a regular briefing on Thursday.
He did not identify the underperforming cities, but the comment comes amid concerns about the country’s ability to reduce pollution in winter as it battles to avoid a repeat of the near-record levels of choking smog that enveloped key northern areas at the start of the year.
“There is no jesting in war. For those local officials who do not enforce the measures of the campaign effectively and could not improve air quality in time, we will hold them accountable,” Liu added.
Data earlier this month showed only four of 28 northern Chinese cities met their air quality targets in October and air quality in 338 Chinese cities worsened in October, with levels of hazardous breathable particles, known as PM 2.5, up 5.6 percent on the year to an average of 38 micrograms per cubic meter.
Beijing is under huge pressure to meet politically crucial air quality targets and clear the skies of toxic smog that blankets the north of the country as homes turn up the heat which is powered by coal.
Liu said overall air quality in the northern cities was improving compared with September. Average PM 2.5 levels in the region dropped 15.8 percent in October from the month before, he said.
“It shows that our measures are working. As long as we are persistent, and diligently enforce existing measures, regional air quality will definitely improve,” he said.
Under the six-month campaign, 28 northern Chinese cities were ordered to thin traffic and cut industrial output. Thousands of pollution sources including steel mills, coal-fired boilers, cement and ceramic plants, mines and building sites will be shut.
These measures, part of Beijing’s years-long time war on smog, have already roiled commodities market, fuelling worries that the tough inspections are hurting the already slowing economy.


DUBAI (Reuters) - Kuwait’s Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber al-Sabah was discharged from hospital on Thursday after successful medical tests, state news agency (KUNA) reported, one day after he was admitted following a cold.
The agency cited Emiri Court Affairs Minister Sheikh Nasser Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah as saying that the 88-year-old ruler of the Gulf Arab state, which is allied with the West, left hospital after “successfully completing regular medical tests”.


MANILA (Reuters) - There is a “strong likelihood” Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte will lift a suspension on police from his war on drugs, his spokesman said on Thursday, a move likely to alarm activists who accuse police of committing murder under the guise of drug busts.
Amid international concern over the staggering death toll and several killings of youngsters, President Rodrigo Duterte last month suspended police anti-narcotics operations for a second time and put the country’s undermanned drugs enforcement agency, PDEA, in charge.
Presidential spokesman Harry Roque reiterated Duterte’s concern expressed last week that the drugs problem could intensify and gains might be lost with the Philippine National Police (PNP) sidelined.
“A decision will soon be made,” Roque told a regular briefing.
“That’s the president’s call. If he thinks it (the war on drugs) must be returned (to the PNP) then it must be, the PDEA has been given enough time.”
He added: “Effectively he has manifested already a decision to return it to the PNP.”
Close to 4,000 mostly urban poor Filipinos have been killed in what police say are anti-drug operations. Human rights groups and political opponents say executions of drug users and small-time peddlers have been widespread, but police insist those killed were all dealers who put up violent resistance.
Police have rebuffed criticism and cite 117,000 arrests as proof that their policy is to preserve life. They also deny links to at least 2,000 mysterious street killings of drug users.
Roque said Duterte knew the police had flaws and would not tolerate abuses, but he still believed in them.
He suspended police in January and reinstated them five weeks later, arguing that drugs were pouring back to the streets.
It is unclear why he removed them again on Oct. 11. His directive was to “bring order” to the campaign, but in angry, at times incoherent speeches, he suggested he was trying to appease the international community.
Duterte last week oversaw his biggest international summit yet but there was no known challenge from other leaders to his war on drugs, including from U.S. President Donald Trump.
The volatile Duterte did, however, lash out afterwards about Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, calling it an “insult” that he should express his concern to him.
Phelim Kine, deputy director of Human Rights Watch in Asia, said people should “brace for more bloodshed” and called again for a United Nations-led international investigation.
“Until that happens, the number of victims denied justice and accountability will likely only continue to grow,” he wrote in a web posting.


YANGON (Reuters) - The United States temporarily suspended travel for American officials to parts of Myanmar’s Rakhine state, the U.S. embassy said on Thursday, citing concerns over potential protests after Secretary of State Rex Tillerson accused Myanmar of “ethnic cleansing” in the state.


HAVANA (Reuters) - Cuba’s foreign minister and his North Korean counterpart rejected the United States’ “unilateral and arbitrary” demands on Wednesday while expressing concern about escalating tensions on the Korean peninsula, the ministry said.
North Korea is searching for support amid unprecedented pressure from the United States and the international community to cease its nuclear weapons and missile programs, which it carries out in defiance of U.N. Security Council resolutions.
The country, which has made no secret of its plans to develop a missile capable of hitting the U.S. mainland, has maintained warm political relations with Cuba since 1960, despite the island’s opposition to nuclear weapons.
Some diplomats said Cuba was also one of the few countries that might be able to convince North Korea to move away from the current showdown with the United States that threatens war.
The ministers, meeting in Havana, called for “respect for peoples’ sovereignty” and “the peaceful settlement of disputes,” according to a statement released by the Cuban foreign ministry.
“They strongly rejected the unilateral and arbitrary lists and designations established by the U.S. government which serve as a basis for the implementation of coercive measures which are contrary to international law,” the statement said.
U.S. President Donald Trump has also increased pressure on Cuba since taking office, rolling back a fragile detente begun by predecessor Barack Obama and returning to the hostile rhetoric of the Cold War.
A U.S. State Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that the United States had made clear it wanted a peaceful resolution to the North Korean nuclear issue.
“The DPRK’s belligerent and provocative behaviour demonstrates it has no interest in working toward a peaceful solution,” the official said.
DPRK stands for North Korea’s official name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Cuba said in the statement the Cuban and North Korean foreign ministers had “expressed concern about the escalation of tensions” on the Korean peninsula.
“The ministers discussed the respective efforts carried out in the construction of socialism according to the realities inherent to their respective countries.”
Cuba and North Korea are the last in the world to maintain Soviet-style command economies, though under President Raul Castro, the Caribbean nation has taken some small steps toward the more market-oriented communism of China and Vietnam.
Cuba maintains an embassy in North Korea, but publicly trades almost exclusively with the South. Last year, trade with the latter was $67 million (50.28 million pounds) and with the North just $9 million, according to the Cuban government.
North Korea defends its weapons programs as a necessary defence against U.S. plans to invade. The United States, which has 28,500 troops in South Korea, a legacy of the 1950-53 Korean war, denies any such intentions.


BANGKOK (Reuters) - Bangkok’s famous street-food vendors have joined the digital revolution, embracing payment via Quick Response (QR) barcodes that can be read using smartphones.
Thailand is famous for its traditional street stalls that offer everything from stir-fried noodles to clothes and for many Thais eating out at a pavement stall is part of their daily routine.
Now, some vendors in the capital Bangkok are offering digital transactions after the Bank of Thailand (BOT) last week gave the green light for five banks including Bangkok Bank and Siam Commercial Bank to implement  electronic payment systems using QR codes.
“The global trend is towards a ‘cashless society’ as it is more convenient and there is proof of transaction. The QR code system would be most practical in Thailand as less investment is needed on behalf of vendors,” Somsak Khaosuwan, Deputy Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society, told Reuters.
At Samyan Market, a market and shopping area in Bangkok that sells everything from vegetables to handbags, vendors said QR codes were taking off although some shoppers still prefer to use cash, particularly those who are less tech-savvy.
“I don’t need to worry about finding change,” said Kitti Khoonphisitwong, 40, a dried-fruit vendor.
“But most customers, especially older people, find the app a hassle,” he said.
Shoppers in their 20s and 30s said they were more inclined to use the system.
“I often shop online so I have no issue with digital transactions,” said Thanachanok Teesakul, 20, a student.
Scams using fraudulent QR codes are on the rise in China, where digital payments are booming. Somsak said Thailand needs to ensure QR payment systems are secure.
“We need to make people feel comfortable in using the system,” he said.


NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India has approved a three-year budget for its flagship public health program almost 20 percent lower than what the health ministry said was needed, according to sources and previously unreported government documents reviewed by Reuters.
The federal finance ministry in August renewed the National Health Mission with $20 billion of funding between 2017-20, against the health ministry’s estimated requirement of $25 billion, the documents showed.
Officials familiar with the plan said the finance ministry reduced planned funding because of other spending priorities and because of state governments’ poor track record of spending the health budgets they’ve been allotted in the past.
The finance and health ministries did not respond to several requests for comment.
The National Health Mission is one of the world’s largest health programs and forms the backbone of public services in India. It provides everything from free drugs to immunization services to millions of rural poor.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has hiked federal funding for the overall health budget this year as part of a plan to improve care and meet a 2025 goal of raising health expenditure to 2.5 percent of GDP from the current 1.15 percent.
The National Health Mission typically accounts for about half of the federal health budget and officials said the lower spending approval would make achieving the government’s 2025 target more difficult.
After focusing on maternal and child health for years, the program had planned to broaden its priorities to tackle the rising threat of non-communicable diseases (NCDs).
Faced with the lower funding, the health ministry has reduced its three-year allocation to tackle NCDs such as cancer and diabetes to $1.4 billion, close to half of the estimated need of $2.4 billion, the documents showed.
The Lancet, a British medical journal, last week said NCDs caused a disease burden in India “like never before”. More than 60 percent of deaths in the country during 2016 were due to non-communicable diseases, up from about 38 percent in 1990, according to the publication.
While funding for such diseases up to 2020 will be higher than in recent years, the lower-than-planned approved funding will slow government efforts to tackle these diseases, two government officials said.
“The cutbacks in NCDs (spending) are dangerous ... this can potentially stall the NCD screening and management plan,” said Oommen C. Kurian, a health researcher at the New Delhi-based think-tank Observer Research Foundation.
India this year introduced free NCD screening for patients in 100 districts, with plans to eventually cover the country.
Beyond non-communicable diseases, spending on strengthening the health system - such as improving district hospitals and patient transport services - will be an estimated $4.3 billion between 2017-20, a third lower than the ministry’s request.
Planned funding for immunization will be $2.9 billion versus $3.2 billion requested.
The spending breakdown for different schemes will be finalised once the health ministry is allocated funding in India’s annual budget.
Modi’s government has taken steps to improve public healthcare including a 27 percent budget hike this year to $7 billion, accompanied by cuts to prices of critical medical devices and drugs.
Shamika Ravi, a health expert at Brookings India, said Modi’s government was also pursuing “fundamental structural reforms” to improve healthcare, such as the ranking of district hospitals and empowering state medical officers.
“There is a lot of background work happening,” said Ravi, who is also on Modi’s economic advisory council.
However, critics say more needs to be done to address the underfunded and overburdened public health system.
Some 900,000 children in India died before turning five in 2016, the highest in the world, The Lancet estimates.
In March, health officials faced criticism from other government departments for the National Health Mission’s inefficiencies and were asked to rework the renewal proposal for 2017-20 after they drew up spending estimates of $33 billion.
The health ministry revised the cost to nearly $25 billion, but the finance ministry reduced estimates by another $5 billion while approving the plan, the documents showed.
The estimates were pared back because Modi’s government has other priorities and because the finance ministry wants to control spending as it seeks to balance fiscal deficit targets while boosting growth, several government officials aware of the process said.
“It’s about political priorities - you have programs on roads, on infrastructure, on ports,” said one of the officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
The government is also concerned states do not have the governance capacity to spend large health budgets efficiently, officials said. A shortage of workers, bureaucratic bungling and slow procurement processes have plagued the states’ health systems.
More than $1.4 billion in health budgets was unspent by states by 2015-16, India’s federal auditor said earlier this year.


NICE, France (Reuters) - Billionaire Russian businessman Suleiman Kerimov was put under formal investigation on Wednesday in Nice in southern France on suspicions of laundering tax fraud proceeds, Nice prosecutor Jean-Michel Pretre said.
Under France’s legal system, being formally placed under investigation often - but not always - leads to a person being sent to trial.
French police arrested the 51-year-old businessman and lawmaker at Nice airport on Monday evening in connection with a tax evasion case.
The prosecution requested that Kerimov be kept in custody and a decision by a judge was due in the night from Wednesday to Thursday.
Earlier a French judicial source said investigators were focussing on the purchase of several luxury residences on the French Riviera via shell companies, something that could have enabled Kerimov to reduce taxes owed to the French state.


DUBAI (Reuters) - The four Arab countries boycotting Qatar added 11 more individuals and two other entities, including a major group of Islamist scholars, to their “terrorist” blacklists for the Gulf state, Saudi state news agency SPA reported on Thursday.
The lists now include the Qatar-based International Union of Muslim Scholars (IUMS) which was formed in 2004 mostly by clerics belonging to the Muslim Brotherhood and is chaired by the influential Sheikh Youssef al-Qaradawi.
A statement issued by Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Bahrain said they also blacklisted the International Islamic Council (IIC).
“The two entities listed are two terrorist organisations that promote terrorism by using Islamic rhetoric as a cover to facilitate terrorist activities,” the statement said.
The move deepened the rift between the four countries and Qatar, the world’s top gas exporter and host to the biggest U.S. military base in the Middle East. The countries cut ties with Qatar in June, accusing it of financing militants in Syria and allying with Iran, their regional foe.
The Saudi-led quartet also added 11 individuals to their lists, including the acting Brotherhood leader Mahmoud Ezzat Ibrahim.
The Muslim Brotherhood movement led the Arab Spring protests in 2011 that toppled some autocrats in the Middle East and North Africa. The Gulf States’ rulers see the group, whose political ideology challenges the principle of dynastic rule, as a security threat.
The IUMS membership includes the Saudi cleric Salman al-Awdah, who was arrested by Saudi authorities in September, the Tunisian Rached Ghannouchi, head of the Ennahda party, and Moroccan scholar Ahmed Raissouni.
Mediation efforts of the Qatar crisis led by Kuwait and shuttle diplomacy by Western officials, including U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, have failed to end what has become the worst rift between Gulf Arab states in years.


BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - An unusual noise was detected last week on the day an Argentine submarine went missing, near its last reported position, navy spokesman Enrique Balbi told reporters on Wednesday.
Pressed by reporters on the nature of the detected sound, Balbi declined to say whether it indicated an explosion or other emergency aboard the ARA San Juan, which was last heard from on Nov. 15.


SEOUL (Reuters) - A North Korean border guard briefly crossed the border with the South in the chase for a defector last week - a violation of the ceasefire accord between North and South, a video released on Wednesday by the U.N. Command (UNC) in Seoul showed.
The North Koreans were only steps behind the young man when they shot him at least four times as he made his escape on Nov. 13. The video, filmed as the defector drove an army truck through the demilitarized zone and then abandoned the vehicle, gives a dramatic insight into his escape.
The defector, identified by a surgeon as a 24-year-old with the family name Oh, was flown by a U.S. military helicopter to a hospital in Suwon, south of Seoul. Doctors said he had regained consciousness, having had two operations to extract the bullets, and his breathing was stable and unassisted.
“He is fine,” lead surgeon Lee Cook-Jong said at a news conference in Suwon. “He is not going to die.”
A UNC official said North Korea had been informed on Wednesday that it had violated the 1953 armistice agreement, which marked the cessation of hostilities in the Korean War.
The UNC official told a news conference that a soldier from the North Korean People’s Army (KPA) had crossed the Military Demarcation Line (MDL), the border between the two Koreas, for a few seconds as others fired shots at the defecting soldier.
“The key findings of the special investigation team are that the KPA violated the armistice agreement by one, firing weapons across the MDL, and two, by actually crossing the MDL temporarily,” Chad Carroll, Director of Public Affairs for the UNC, told reporters.
The incident comes at a time of heightened tensions between North Korea and the international community over its nuclear weapons programme, but Pyongyang has not publicly responded to the defection.
The video, released by the UNC, was produced from surveillance cameras on the southern side of the the Joint Security Area (JSA) inside the demilitarized zone. When tree cover is too dense to see the wounded defector crawling across the border, it switches to infra-red.
The film begins with a lone dark green army jeep speeding along empty, tree-lined roads towards the border.
At one checkpoint, a North Korean guard marches impassively towards the approaching vehicle. It races by. He runs in pursuit.
After passing a memorial to North Korea founder Kim Il Sung, where tourists often gather, the jeep runs into a ditch just metres from the border, which is not clearly marked.
For several minutes the driver tries to free the vehicle, but the wheels spin uselessly in fallen leaves.
The driver abandons the vehicle and sprints away, pushing tree branches out of his way and sending leaves flying.
He scrambles up a slope to cross just seconds before more guards appear, shooting as they run.
One slides into a pile of dead leaves to open fire before running forward and appearing to briefly cross the dividing line between the two countries. He quickly turns on his heel.
The video does not show the moment the defector is hit, but he is seen lying in a pile of brush next to a concrete wall in a later edited clip.
The UNC’s Carroll said the position was still exposed to North Korean checkpoints across the border.
Allied troops operating the cameras had by then notified their commanders and a quick reaction force had assembled on the South Korean side, according to Carroll. The video does not show this force.
Infrared imagery shows two South Korean soldiers crawling through undergrowth to drag the wounded North Korean to safety, while the deputy commander of the border security unit oversees the rescue from a few metres away.
Doctors have conducted a series of surgeries to remove four bullets from the critically wounded soldier, who arrived at the hospital having lost a large amount of blood.
“From a medical point of view he was almost dead when he was first brought here,” said the surgeon, Lee.
Hospital officials said the man remains in intensive care.
The soldier showed signs of depression and possible trauma, in addition to a serious case of parasites that has complicated his treatment, the hospital said in a statement. Lee said last week one of the flesh-coloured parasites he removed from the soldier’s digestive tract was 27 cm (10.6 in) long.
Continuing stress made the soldier hesitant to talk, but he had been cooperative, doctors said.
The patient first recovered consciousness on Sunday, and asked where he was in South Korea, Lee said. He was in “agony” when he came to, the surgeon added.
Since then doctors have played South Korean pop music for him, and American action movies including “The Transporter”  from 2002.
On average more than 1,000 North Koreans defect to the South every year, but most travel via China and numbers have fallen since Kim Jong Un came to power in 2011. It is unusual for a North Korean to cross the land border dividing the two Koreas. They  have been in a technical state of war since their 1950-53 conflict ended in a truce, not a peace treaty.
The last time a North Korean soldier had defected across the JSA was in 2007.


GENEVA (Reuters) - Syrians in the besieged enclave of Eastern Ghouta are so short of food that they are eating trash, fainting from hunger and forcing their children to eat on alternate days, the U.N. World Food Programme said in a report on Wednesday.
Since September, approximately 174,500 people in the town of Douma in the besieged zone have been forced to adopt emergency “coping strategies”, the WFP report said.
“This includes consuming expired food, animal fodder and refuse, spending days without eating, begging and engaging in high risk activities to get food. Moreover, many hunger-induced fainting episodes have been reported among school children and teachers.”
At least four people have died from hunger, including a child in Douma who took his own life due to hunger, said the report, which was based on a mobile phone survey and information from contacts on the ground.
Forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad have besieged rebel-held Eastern Ghouta since 2012 and Douma has not had a food aid convoy since receiving wheat flour rations in August.
Although the area is traditionally agricultural, arable land on the outskirts of Eastern Ghouta is either on the frontline of the conflict or targeted by snipers, the report said.
Last week fighting destroyed recently distributed rations in a storehouse, exacerbating shortages. Although Damascus is only 15 km (10 miles) away, 700-grams (25 ounces) of bread is 85 times more expensive in Eastern Ghouta, the report said.
“The situation is anticipated to deteriorate further in the coming weeks when food stock is expected to be totally depleted and household coping strategies will be highly eroded as a result.”
Government restrictions meant WFP could only provide a fraction of the food needed. Family food baskets were being shared among six families and were reportedly the only source of food for many female-headed and destitute households, it said.
“Some households are even resorting to rotation strategies whereby the children who ate yesterday would not eat today and vice-versa.”
The report quoted a female head of household in Douma as saying she was forced to rotate rations between her 13-year-old daughter and her two- and three-year-old orphaned grandchildren.
”My daughter cries every time I lock her door cause she knows today is not her turn and will sleep with an empty stomach,” she said.


BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - The search for an Argentine submarine missing in the South Atlantic for more than a week has highlighted the dwindling resources and lack of training faced by the armed forces since the end of a military dictatorship in the early 1980s.
As South America’s second-largest economy has lurched from one crisis to the next in recent decades, military funding has not been a priority for cash-strapped governments, and an incident like the disappearance of the ARA San Juan was a problem in the making, military and political analysts said.
“Human rights violations perpetrated by the dictatorship broke the bond between society and the armed forces,” said Andrei Serbin Pont, research director at the CRIES think tank in Buenos Aires. He said a rethinking of the military’s role in society was long overdue.
“The majority of Argentines don’t really care about the armed forces, therefore politicians aren’t particularly interested in maintaining any sort of military policy or defence policy,” he said.
Since the loss of the Falklands War to Britain in 1982 and the fall of the dictatorship the following year, military spending has fallen from 2.16 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) to a low of 0.87 percent in 2011, according to World Bank data.
While it inched up to 0.96 percent of GDP last year, spending remains well behind neighbouring Brazil and Chile, which spent 1.3 percent and 1.9 percent of GDP on their militaries, respectively, the data show.
It is too early to determine the cause of the disappearance of the ARA San Juan, and an intense search and rescue effort continued on Wednesday. But Argentina’s submarine fleet has been among the areas of the military most plagued by a lack of funds.
In 2014, the fleet spent a total of just 19 hours submerged, versus the 190 days needed “for the fulfillment of operational and training needs,” according to a May 2016 report by specialist publication Jane’s Sentinel.
“The fact that you had so little use of the submarines was an indication that clearly they were a problem waiting to happen,” said Evan Ellis, a research professor focussing on Latin America at the U.S. Army War College Strategic Studies Institute.
‘DOES SOMEONE HAVE TO DIE?’
President Mauricio Macri pledged to improve the 26,000-strong armed forces’ capabilities during his campaign in 2015. His administration’s 2016 “State of the State” report noted that 70 percent of the Defense Ministry’s budget was spent on wages and pensions, rather than investment.
“The conditions in which they work are practically impossible. I‘m talking about all the armed forces,” Elisa Carrio, a key member of Macri’s Let’s Change coalition, said in a recent television interview.
But since taking office in December 2015, Macri has not markedly improved the financing situation. The 2018 budget calls for a 14 percent increase in funding for the Defense Ministry, below inflation expected at 15.7 percent.
In March, then-Defense Minister Julio Martinez told Reuters Argentina lacked money to buy aircraft or replace an aging fleet.
The German-built ARA San Juan was launched in 1983 and underwent a local upgrade beginning in 2008 which included the replacement of its four diesel engines and its electric propeller engines, according to Jane’s Sentinel.
Shortly before giving its last location on Nov. 15, the submarine reported an electrical outage. Concerns about the state of the vessel surfaced when video was published by newspaper Perfil of a tense meeting between Macri and relatives of some of the 44 crew members.
“Does someone have to die for things to change? Could you not have invested in this before?” one sailor’s wife was recorded telling Macri.
Macri said the ship’s level of maintenance, not its age, was what mattered, and that authorities were convinced the submarine was in good condition.
Argentine news media have reported that the search has sparked friction between the navy and the defence ministry, with civilian authorities concerned that the military has not been forthcoming with information. Navy officials have denied this.
A ministry source, who was not authorized to speak publicly,  told Reuters the ministry has opened an investigation into the incident and has not ruled out criminal charges once the search operation is complete.


ISTANBUL (Reuters) - An earthquake of magnitude 5.0 hit southwest Turkey at 2022 GMT on Wednesday, the U.S. Geological Survey said.
The epicentre was 31 km (20 miles) southeast of Mugla province, a popular tourist region on the Aegean Sea, at a depth of 10 km, the USGS said.
There were no immediate reports of casualties or damage from the quake.


DUBAI (Reuters) - The Saudi-led military coalition fighting Houthi rebels in Yemen said on Wednesday it would allow humanitarian aid access through Yemen’s port of Hodeidah and United Nations flights to the capital Sanaa, more than two weeks after blockading the country.
The coalition closed air, land and sea access to the Arabian Peninsula country on Nov. 6 to stop the flow of arms to the Houthis from Iran. The action came after Saudi Arabia intercepted a missile fired toward its capital Riyadh. Iran has denied supplying the Houthis with weapons.
Soon after the closure, U.N. aid chief Mark Lowcock warned that the blockade could spark “the largest famine the world has seen for many decades with millions of victims” unless the coalition gave access to humanitarian aid.
The Saudi-led coalition said in a statement on Wednesday that from Nov. 23 the Red Sea port of Hodeidah would be reopened to receive food aid and humanitarian relief, and Sanaa airport would be open for UN flights with humanitarian relief.
“We’re monitoring these developments,” U.N. spokesman Farhan Haq told reporters in New York. “If that were to happen that would be a very welcome and critically important development.”
“We made clear the tremendous amount of needs on the ground,” Haq said.
Earlier this month the coalition said it would allow aid deliveries through the government-held port of Aden. However, around 80 percent of Yemen’s food imports arrive through Hodeidah.
The United Nations has said some seven million people in Yemen are on the brink of famine and nearly 900,000 have been infected with cholera, a waterborne disease that causes acute diarrhea and dehydration.
Aid groups said there also needed to be commercial access to Yemen for food and fuel shipments.
“Humanitarian aid alone cannot meet the needs of Yemenis who are unjustly bearing the brunt of this war,” Paolo Cernuschi, Yemen country director at the International Rescue Committee, said in a statement.
Jan Egeland, secretary general of the Norwegian Refugee Council and a former U.N. aid chief, posted on Twitter, “We need all ports to open and access for commercial food and supplies to large civilian population. Humanitarian aid alone cannot avert hunger.”
The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said on Wednesday that it had evacuated from Sanaa five staff members in need of urgent medical assistance.
The Saudi-led coalition has been targeting the Houthis since they seized parts of Yemen in 2015, including the capital Sanaa, forcing President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi to flee.
The Houthis, drawn mainly from Yemen’s Zaidi Shi‘ite minority and allied with long-serving former president Ali Abdullah Saleh, control much of the country.


SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Facebook Inc said on Wednesday it would build a web page to allow users to see which Russian propaganda accounts they have liked or followed, after U.S. lawmakers demanded that the social network be more open about the reach of the accounts.
U.S. lawmakers called the announcement a positive step. The web page, though, would fall short of their demands that Facebook individually notify users about Russian propaganda posts or ads they were exposed to.
Facebook, Alphabet Inc’s Google and Twitter Inc are facing a backlash after saying Russians used their services to anonymously spread divisive messages among Americans in the run-up to the 2016 U.S. elections.
U.S. lawmakers have criticized the tech firms for not doing more to detect the alleged election meddling, which the Russian government denies involvement in.
Facebook says the propaganda came from the Internet Research Agency, a Russian organization that according to lawmakers and researchers employs hundreds of people to push pro-Kremlin content under phoney social media accounts.
As many as 126 million people could have been served posts on Facebook and 20 million on Instagram, the company says. Facebook has since deactivated the accounts.
Facebook, in a statement, said it would let people see which pages or accounts they liked or followed between January 2015 and August 2017 that were affiliated with the Internet Research Agency.
The tool will be available by the end of the year as “part of our ongoing effort to protect our platforms and the people who use them from bad actors who try to undermine our democracy,” Facebook said.
The web page will show only a list of accounts, not the posts or ads affiliated with them, according to a mock-up. U.S. lawmakers have separately published some posts.
It was not clear if Facebook would eventually do more, such as sending individualized notifications to users.
Lawmakers at congressional hearings this month suggested that Facebook might have an obligation to notify people who accessed deceptive foreign government material.
Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat who had asked for notifications, said Facebook’s plan “seems to be a serious response” to his request.
“My hope is that it will be a responsible first step towards protecting against future assaults on its platform,” he said in a statement.
Representative Adam Schiff, a Democrat, called it a “very positive step” and said lawmakers look forward to additional steps by tech companies to improve transparency.


BEIRUT (Reuters) - Lebanon’s Saad al-Hariri on Wednesday shelved his decision to resign as prime minister at the request of President Michel Aoun, easing a crisis that had deepened tensions in the Middle East.
Hariri made his announcement after returning to Beirut for the first time since he quit abruptly on Nov. 4 in a broadcast from Saudi Arabia. Top Lebanese officials have said Riyadh forced him to quit and held him in the kingdom. Riyadh and Hariri deny this.
At the presidential palace near Beirut, Hariri said he hoped his move would lead to “a responsible dialogue ... that deals with divisive issues and their repercussions on Lebanon’s relations with Arab brothers.”
Hariri said all Lebanese sides must commit to keeping the country out of regional conflicts, a reference to the Iran-backed Hezbollah political and military movement. Hezbollah’s regional military role has greatly alarmed Saudi Arabia, Hariri’s long-time ally.
“I presented today my resignation to President Aoun and he urged me to wait before offering it and to hold onto it for more dialogue about its reasons and political background, and I showed responsiveness,” he said in a televised statement.
The resignation had shocked even Hariri’s aides. He returned to Lebanon late on Tuesday night after French intervention.
Aoun, a political ally of Hezbollah, had refused to accept the resignation because it happened in “mysterious circumstances” abroad. He had called Hariri a hostage in Riyadh.
Hariri appeared to express relief that Aoun had not accepted the resignation right away. He thanked Aoun on Wednesday for respecting constitutional norms and “his rejection of departing from them under any circumstances”.
The resignation pitched Lebanon to the forefront of the regional rivalry between Sunni Muslim Saudi Arabia and Shi‘ite Islamist Iran, which backs Lebanon’s Hezbollah, and raised concerns of a protracted crisis.
In his resignation speech, Hariri had cited fear of assassination, and attacked Iran along with Hezbollah for sowing strife in the Arab world.
Hundreds of Hariri supporters packed the streets near his house in central Beirut, waving the blue flag of his Future Movement political party. The Sunni leader told them he would “stay with (them) ... to be a line of defence for Lebanon, Lebanon’s stability and Lebanon’s Arabism”.
“His presence in the country alone brings stability,” said Manar Akoum, 26, as she stood with the celebrating crowd.
Hariri’s resignation was followed by a steep escalation in Saudi statements against the Lebanese government, which includes Shi‘ite Hezbollah. Riyadh said the government as a whole - not just Hezbollah - had declared war against it.
Western governments including the United States struck a different tone, affirming their support for Hariri and the stability of Lebanon, which hosts 1.5 million Syrian refugees - nearly one in four of the population.
“The United States welcomes the return of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri to Lebanon,” a State Department official said on Wednesday.
Washington is also encouraged by Hariri’s discussions with  Aoun and his statement reaffirming his commitment to Lebanon’s  stability, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Ahead of his return to Beirut, Hariri had stressed the importance of the Lebanese state policy of staying out of regional conflicts, notably Yemen, where a Saudi-led coalition is battling Iran-backed Houthi fighters.
PRESERVING LEBANESE “COEXISTENCE”
Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah, who had also called for Hariri’s return, said on Monday his group was open to “any dialogue and any discussion”. Nasrallah also issued his clearest denial yet of any Hezbollah role in Yemen.
A senior source in a political alliance that includes Hezbollah said Hariri’s move on Wednesday would start a breakthrough in the crisis. “This step is not detached from the framework of a complete solution whose features will appear in the coming days,” the source told Reuters.
Lebanese dollar bonds, which had fallen in response to Hariri’s resignation, gained following Wednesday’s announcement.
A government minister from the United Arab Emirates, a close ally of Saudi Arabia, said Lebanon must implement its policy of keeping out of Middle East conflicts in order to get out of its own crisis as well as regional troubles.
“The main problem facing that is the selective implementation of (this) principle and the functional Iranian role of Hezbollah outside the Lebanese framework,” Anwar Gargash, minister of state for foreign affairs, wrote on Twitter.
Cyprus, where Hariri had briefly stopped on his journey home, said it would attempt to help defuse the crisis.
“Our common objective is stability in Lebanon, stability in our area. Within this context ... the President of the Republic will undertake some initiatives precisely to promote this objective: stability in Lebanon,” Cypriot government spokesman Nikos Christodoulides said.
Hariri took office last year in a power-sharing deal that made Aoun head of state. He arrived in Beirut in time for independence day celebrations on Wednesday morning, taking the premier’s seat alongside Aoun and Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri.
Hariri said he looked forward to “real partnership with all the political powers, in placing Lebanon’s interests high above any other interests” and preserving coexistence among Lebanese.


STRASBOURG, France (Reuters) - Lawyers for Silvio Berlusconi argued on Wednesday at the European Court of Human Rights against his ban from holding public office, hoping for a green light that will allow him to run for prime minister at national elections early next year.
One of his lawyers told the Strasbourg court that the four-times prime minister had received the sort of justice meted out to gladiators in Rome’s ancient Colosseum, as he appealed against the ban that followed a 2013 tax fraud conviction.
The interdiction is not due to expire until 2019.
The billionaire media tycoon was widely written off after he quit as prime minister in 2011 amid a sex scandal involving his “bunga bunga” parties, while Italian bond yields surged to unsustainable levels at the height of the euro zone debt crisis.
However, the 81-year-old Berlusconi has made a remarkable comeback after open heart surgery last year and his Forza Italia (Go Italy!) party is now the lynchpin of a centre-right coalition which leads in opinion polls ahead of the election.
The “Berlusconi versus Italy” case was heard by 17 judges who make up the court’s Grand Chamber, which is used for particularly important and complex matters. Berlusconi hired a top London law firm to represent him.
Berlusconi was the victim of “the politics of a Roman amphitheatre in which the fate of the gladiator is determined by how many thumbs go up and how many thumbs go down”, his lawyer Edward Fitzgerald told the court.
“Basic procedural guarantees were lacking for doing something as massive and draconian as depriving an elected official of his electoral mandate, and the people who elected him of their right to be represented by the person they chose.”
A verdict is not expected for several months. Even if the court eventually decides in favour of Berlusconi, the ruling may not come in time for him to run in the election, which must be held by May next year.
In an interview on Wednesday with la Repubblica newspaper, Berlusconi said he would still be campaigning for his party whether he could stand for office or not.
“Irrespective of whether I can stand, I’ll be a player and I’ll bring the centre-right to power,” he said. Berlusconi was not present at the hearing in this eastern French city.
Berlusconi argues that because the tax fraud took place many years before the 2013 Italian law that barred him from running for office was passed, the legislation was applied retroactively and was therefore illegitimate.
A lawyer representing Italy refuted this on Wednesday, saying Berlusconi’s actions had been “disloyal to the state”.
Berlusconi received a four-year prison sentence in August 2013 for organising a complex scheme to illegally lower the tax bill of his Mediaset media company.
Three of the four years were immediately waived due to an amnesty to relieve prison overcrowding, and he was allowed to serve the remaining year in community service, helping out in an old people’s home.
After the conviction, Berlusconi was expelled from Rome’s Senate, or upper house of parliament.
With or without Berlusconi, the election is expected to produce a hung parliament. The anti-establishment 5-Star Movement leads in opinion polls with around 28 percent of the vote, followed by the ruling centre-left Democratic Party on about 25 percent.
The centre-right bloc is made up of Forza Italia and the anti-immigrant Northern League, each on around 14 percent, and the right-wing Brothers of Italy, with around 5 percent.


TOKYO (Reuters) - A U.S. Navy transport plane carrying 11 people crashed in the Philippine Sea south of Japan on Wednesday as it flew to the aircraft carrier Ronald Reagan and three people were missing, in the latest Navy accident in the region.
Eight other people were rescued and transferred to the carrier where they were in good condition, the U.S. Seventh Fleet said.
“Search and rescue efforts for three personnel continue with U.S. Navy and Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force (JMSDF) ships and aircraft on scene,” the U.S. Seventh Fleet said in a news  release.
“The incident will be investigated,” it added.
The plane was conducting a routine transport flight carrying passengers and cargo from Marine Corps Air Station Iwakuni to the carrier, which was operating in the Philippine Sea as part of an exercise with Japanese forces, it said.
U.S. President Donald Trump was briefed on the crash at his Mar-a-Lago retreat in Florida, where he is spending the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday, said White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters.
“The @USNavy is conducting search and rescue following aircraft crash. We are monitoring the situation. Prayers for all involved,” Trump wrote in a Twitter post.
Japanese Minister of Defence Itsunori Onodera told reporters the U.S. Navy informed him that the crash may have been a result of engine trouble.
The propeller-powered transport plane, a C-2 Greyhound, carries personnel, mail and other cargo from mainland bases to carriers operating at sea.
C-2 aircraft have been in operation for more than five decades and are due to be replaced by the long-range tilt-rotor Osprey aircraft.
Two crashes in the Asia Pacific region involving U.S. Navy warships and commercial vessels this year have raised questions about Navy training and the pace of operations in the region, prompted a Congressional hearing and the removal of a number of officers.
The guided missile destroyer Fitzgerald almost sank off the coast of Japan after colliding with a Philippine container ship on June 17. The bodies of seven U.S. sailors were found in a flooded berthing area after that collision.
In a separate incident in August, 10 sailors were killed when the guided missile destroyer John S. McCain collided with an oil tanker.
The Navy has dismissed a number of officers, including the commander of the Seventh Fleet, as a result of the collisions involving its warships in Asia.


SOCHI, Russia/RIYADH (Reuters) - Russia’s Vladimir Putin won the backing of Turkey and Iran on Wednesday to host a Syrian peace congress, taking the central role in a major diplomatic push to finally end a civil war all but won by Moscow’s ally, President Bashar al-Assad.
Syrian opposition groups, meeting in Saudi Arabia to seek a unified position ahead of peace talks, decided to stick to their demand that Assad leave power, Al Arabiya television reported, following speculation they might soften their stance after their hardline leader quit.
Two days after being visited by Assad in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, President Putin hosted his counterparts Tayyip Erdogan and Hassan Rouhani there.
In a joint statement, the three leaders called on the Syrian government and moderate opposition to “participate constructively” in the planned congress, to be held in the same city on a date they did not specify.
“The congress will look at the key questions on Syria’s national agenda,” Putin told reporters at the summit, sitting alongside Rouhani and Erdogan. “First of all that is the drawing-up of a framework for the future structure of the state, the adoption of a new constitution, and, on the basis of that, the holding of elections under United Nations supervision.”
There was no word from the leaders on who would be invited. The list of invitees has been a sticking point, with Turkey objecting to some Syrian Kurdish groups attending.
Syria’s civil war, in its seventh year, has killed hundreds of thousands of people and created the world’s worst refugee crisis, driving more than 11 million people from their homes.
All previous efforts to achieve a diplomatic solution have swiftly collapsed, with the opposition demanding Assad leave power, the government insisting he stay on, and neither side able to force the issue by achieving a military victory.
But since Russia joined the war on behalf of Assad in 2015, the balance of power has turned decisively in his government’s favour. A year ago, the army forced rebels out of their last urban stronghold, the eastern half of Aleppo.
In recent weeks, the self-proclaimed caliphate of jihadist group Islamic State has collapsed. Government forces now effectively control all of Syria apart from a few shrinking rebel pockets and a swathe in the north held by mainly Kurdish forces backed by the United States.
Opposition groups held their meeting on Wednesday at a luxury hotel in Riyadh, two days after the leader of the High Negotiations Committee (HNC) that has represented them at previous peace talks quit abruptly.
HNC chief Riyad Hijab had been known as an uncompromising defender of the position that Assad must have no role in any political transition for Syria, and his resignation had led to speculation the opposition could soften its stance.
However, a draft of the meeting’s final statement still included the demand Assad leave office at the start of any transition, Saudi-owned Al Arabiya television reported.
Having helped Assad’s government reach the cusp of victory, Putin now appears to be playing the leading role in international efforts to end the war on Assad’s terms.
In addition to hosting Assad, Rouhani and Erdogan, the Russian leader has also phoned U.S. President Donald Trump and Saudi King Salman in the past 24 hours.
Iran has long supported Assad.
Saudi Arabia, Iran’s arch rival in the Middle East and long a backer of rebel groups in Syria and advocate of the position that Assad must leave, has been the main supporter of the HNC. But after King Salman made an historic visit to Moscow a few months ago, Riyadh appears to have come around to Russia’s dominant role in Syria.
Similarly Turkey, traditionally one of the Syrian leader’s implacable foes, has increasingly shown willingness to work with Russia to resolve the crisis.
“This summit is aimed at results. I believe critical decisions will be reached,” Turkey’s Erdogan said in Sochi before his meeting with Putin and Rouhani.
The Syrian government welcomed the final statement from the three-way Iran summit, Syrian state media said on Wednesday, quoting an official source in the Foreign Ministry. It described it as the culmination of Assad’s summit with Putin.
The other major power with troops in Syria, the United States, has so far kept its distance. Washington has been arming, training and sending special forces to assist a Kurdish group fighting against Islamic State, angering Turkey which is fighting its own Kurdish insurgency.
Still, any final settlement that keeps Assad in power will probably require the participation of some kind of opposition delegation willing to negotiate over the demand that he go.
U.N. peace talks mediator Staffan de Mistura, host of the formal peace process in Geneva, told the opposition groups at the Riyadh meeting they needed to have the “hard discussions” necessary to reach a “common line”.
“A strong, unified team is a creative partner in Geneva and we need that, one who can actually explore more than one way to arrive to the goals that we need to have,” he said.
De Mistura will meet Russia’s defence and foreign ministers on Thursday to discuss preparations for a new round of Geneva talks, Russian news agency RIA reported.
Russia said on Tuesday that the resignation of such “radically minded” Syrian opposition figures as HNC chief Hijab would help unite the disparate opposition factions around a more “realistic” platform. [L8N1NR296]


WARSAW (Reuters) - Plans to overhaul Poland’s judiciary would end the country’s status as a democratic state based on the rule of law and should be scrapped, more than two dozen rights groups and non-governmental organisations said in a petition on Wednesday.
The petition, backed by Amnesty International and the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights among others, came as parliament started debating amendments agreed by President Andrzej Duda and the ruling Law and Justice party (PiS).
The proposals give the parliament a virtually free hand in deciding the composition of the Supreme Court and how judges are selected and are “in gross conflict” with the constitution, the signatories said in their petition.
“The introduction of these amendments will mean that Poland will definitely cease to be a democratic state of law,” it said.
“We request the immediate stoppage of parliamentary work on (the bills) and demand the start of extensive public consultations on this.”
The nationalist, eurosceptic PiS,  which has a parliamentary majority, says reform of the judicial system is needed because the courts are slow, inefficient and steeped in a communist-era mentality.
Duda had raised hopes among critics of the plans that they could be halted when he vetoed the original PiS proposals in July, following nationwide protests and warnings from the European Union.
The president, an ally of PiS, said then that the proposals gave too much power to one party and to the justice minister.
But subsequent work on the amendments has been conducted in secrecy, spurring criticism from the United Nations and the European Commission that they could further damage Poland’s judicial system.
Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the leader of PiS and Poland’s paramount politician, has met privately with Duda several times for talks. Details of those meetings have not been made public and it is not known what consensus has been reached.
“The president gave us some hope that the constitution would not be so continually abused,” said Irena Kaminska, a judge and a member of the Themis association of judges.
“For a moment I had hoped there would be a breakthrough, but that has not happened.”
Stanislaw Piotrowicz, head of parliament’s justice committee, told the PAP state news agency that lawmakers could complete work on the bills at the next session, planned for Dec. 6-8.
If the bills pass they could potentially allow PiS to tighten its control of the political system, its critics said.
Marcin Matczak of the Batory Foundation in Warsaw, one of the NGO signatories to the petition, said PiS would be able to change the electoral system to its own advantage because the judges would no longer challenge them.
“After the (court) laws are implemented the government will be able to rule eternally,” he said. “There will be no one to defend us.”
The EU is pressing a legal case against Poland over its judicial reform plans and has suggested the country could forfeit some development funds if it refuses to change course. PiS says it has a democratic mandate for its reforms.


PARIS (Reuters) - France demanded on Wednesday an urgent U.N. Security Council session on human trafficking in Libya and raised the possibility of sanctions on the country after a video appearing to show African migrants sold as slaves there sparked global outrage.
Convened by Italy, which struck a deal with Libya to slash the number of migrants reaching its shores, the Council on Tuesday unanimously backed a resolution urging tougher action to crack down on human trafficking and modern slavery worldwide.
Speaking to lawmakers, French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian suggested Paris wanted to take things further and called for an urgent session of the Council to specifically discuss the situation in Libya.
“Libyan authorities, who have been alerted several times, including by myself because I was there in September, have decided to open an investigation into the facts,” Le Drian said.
“We want it to go fast and if the Libyan justice system can not carry this procedure through then we should open international sanctions,” Le Drian said.
Footage appearing to show African migrants sold as slaves in Libya has sparked an international outcry with protests erupting across Europe and Africa, while artists to soccer stars to U.N. officials have made pleas for the abuse to end.
The video broadcast by CNN showed what it said was an auction of men offered to Libyan buyers as farmhands and sold for $400, a chilling echo of the trans-Saharan slave trade of centuries past.
“What has been revealed is indeed trafficking of human beings, it’s a crime against humanity,” Macron said during a news conference with African Union President Alpha Conde.
Macron said he wanted the U.N. Security Council to discuss what concrete steps could be taken to tackle the issue.
A French diplomat said the U.N. session would likely be in coming days, probably next week, and would see what concrete measures could be taken to improve the situation.
Despite events in Libya, Conde put the blame firmly on the European Union, accusing it of encouraging the Libyans to keep migrants in the North African country despite there being no government.
“What happened in Libya is shocking, scandalous, but we must establish the responsibilities,” said Conde. “In Libya there is no government, so the European Union can not choose a developing country and ask that country to detain refugees (...) when it doesn’t have the means to do so,” he added.
“The refugees are in terrible conditions ... so our European friends were not right to ask Libya to keep the migrants. The European Union is responsible.”
Le Drian said he wanted the International Organization for Migration and the U.N. Refugee Agency to publish details about the trafficking of migrants in the country.
Libya splintered along political, ideological and tribal lines during and after a 2011 NATO-backed uprising that unseated former leader Muammar Gaddafi. In 2014 a battle for the capital led to rival parliaments and governments being set up in Tripoli and the east.


PRAGUE (Reuters) - The Czech Republic’s newly elected lower house of parliament picked a speaker from ANO, the largest party in the house, on Wednesday, opening the way for the government to resign and ANO leader Andrej Babis to become prime minister.
Babis’s party won an October election by a large margin on pledges to uproot corruption and streamline the functioning of the state. He has been asked by President Milos Zeman to form a government but has so far failed to find majority support.
Electing the speaker is one of the constitutional conditions for the parliament to conclude its first session. Once the session ends, the outgoing government - led by Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka - will resign and a new prime minister and eventually a full cabinet can be appointed.
Sobotka has said his cabinet would resign the next working day after the first session, expected to end on Friday.
Delivering a pro-business and anti-immigration message, often bashing Brussels, ANO won 78 out of the 200 seats in the lower house. The rest are scattered among eight other parties.
Babis, the second-richest Czech, worth an estimated $4 billion, has yet to convince any of the other parties to join a coalition with him or support a minority cabinet, his preferred option.
Parties have shunned Babis, who faces a police investigation over alleged fraud. Police have asked parliament to lift his immunity so prosecution can go ahead. Babis denies wrongdoing and says the case is politically motivated..
Once appointed, Babis can hold office for months even if he loses a confidence vote, pending a second attempt to form a government, which Zeman said would again go to Babis.
The new speaker, ANO’s Radek Vondracek, can also play an important role. If the second attempt fails, he will be in charge of appointing the third candidate for prime minister.
Vondracek, the only candidate for speaker, received 135 votes in a secret ballot. Debate and committee-position voting beforehand showed likely joint voting by ANO, the far-left Communists and the far-right SPD party. The latter two parties got chairmanships of two committees.
One was the immunity committee, which will make a recommendation on Babis’s immunity; it went to the Communist party.
The anti-EU, anti-NATO and anti-immigrant SPD party has been promised chairmanship of the security committee. Its nominee, Radek Koten, is considered a security risk by some analysts, based on conspiracy theories and pro-Russian material on his Facebook profile.
Babis has said he would not allow any steps, such as a referendum, that could threaten the country’s EU membership and that he would not take SPD into government.
The Communists have said they may help ANO in the confidence vote, but their votes alone would not be enough.
Mainstream parties have so far stuck to their stance of no cooperation with Babis.


GENEVA (Reuters) - The conviction of former Bosnian Serb military commander Ratko Mladic for genocide and crimes against humanity serves as a warning to others such as Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, the United Nations’ human rights chief said on Wednesday.
Earlier on Wednesday the U.N. Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) found Mladic guilty of the slaughter of 8,000 Muslim men and boys at Srebrenica and for the siege of the Bosnian capital Sarajevo, in which more than 10,000 civilians were killed by shelling and snipers over 43 months.
U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra‘ad al-Hussein, who worked for the United Nations in the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s, told Reuters he had waited a long time for the life sentence handed down against Mladic.
“Mladic is the epitome of evil and the prosecution of Mladic is the epitome of international justice,” Zeid said in an interview in his Geneva office.
Noting that Mladic is now 74 but was in his 50s at the time of his crimes, Zeid said the case showed justice would catch up with other leaders who trampled over human rights.
“The passage of time is no protection. Eventually I hope all those who have authored these appalling atrocities across the world will be held accountable before a court of law and there will be justice for the victims of those particular crimes.”
Pressed on whether that would include Assad, he said:
“Yes. It’s very clear to us that what happened in Syria recently and not limited to Syria, in many parts of the world, were so grotesque that if a court of law on the basis of evidence were to prosecute senior leaders then you would expect that some of them would be held responsible.”
Assad and his government deny committing rights abuses and say they are engaged in a legitimate struggle against terrorist groups including Islamic State.
Trials are led by evidence, Zeid said.
“And so whatever trials are mounted in the future, if the evidence leads to the very senior rungs of leadership, then you would indeed hope this takes place.”
“In the end there is justice,” he added.
U.N. war crimes investigators documenting massacres and other atrocities in Syria have accused all sides of grave crimes including the government’s use of chemical weapons against civilians more than two dozen times, as well as executions, torture and rapes.
Paulo Pinheiro, chairman of the U.N. Commission of Inquiry on Syria, said last year that the scale of deaths in prisons indicated that the Assad government was responsible for “extermination as a crime against humanity”.
Syria’s civil war, now in its seventh year, has killed hundreds of thousands of people and created the world’s worst refugee crisis, driving more than 11 million people from their homes.


GENEVA (Reuters) - Qatar took the final step on Wednesday to start litigation at the World Trade Organization in its row with the United Arab Emirates, but no other WTO members spoke up in support of the move, which many trade experts see as a dangerous precedent.
The UAE was one of four countries - along with Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Egypt - that cut ties with Qatar, a major gas supplier and site of the biggest U.S. military base in the Middle East, on June 5. They accused Qatar of financing militant groups in Syria and allying with Iran, their regional foe.
Qatar denied the allegations and opened WTO dispute proceedings against the UAE, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain. It pressed its case against the UAE alone, and last month it asked the WTO to set up an adjudication panel [nL8N1MN6EE].
The UAE was allowed to block Qatar’s request once, but could not block a second request for a panel, which came on Wednesday.
The UAE has already said that it plans to thwart the Qatari litigation by resorting to the WTO’s national security exception - something never before tested as a defense in WTO litigation.
Qatar’s representative at the WTO’s dispute settlement body on Wednesday said the UAE had used “provable fabrications, and rhetoric not befitting of this House”.
“UAE has asserted an absolute unilateral right to be absolved of all of its substantive and procedural WTO obligations vis-à-vis Qatar based purely on its bald assertion that its coercive attempts to isolate Qatar reflect a security concern,” he said.
Trade diplomats have previously said that using the exception could open Pandora’s Box, since any of the WTO’s 164 members might cite national security to skirt the usual trade rules.
Qatar said it backed the right of countries to take bona fide measures to protect their security but that could not be a self-regulating defense. No country speaking at the meeting disputed the UAE’s right to invoke national security but none spoke up in favor of Qatar’s move to litigate either.
The United States said the dispute panel should simply limit its findings to say the security exception had been invoked, according to a trade official attending the meeting.
Yemen said the issue should be resolved within the Gulf Cooperation Council, while South Korea said the WTO was not the right forum for resolving a political dispute. China’s representative said the national security exception was sensitive and should be used only exceptionally.
Canada’s representative suggested that WTO Director General Roberto Azevedo could use his good offices to try to resolve the dispute.


KAMPALA (Reuters) - Uganda on Wednesday denied its foreign minister had engaged in corrupt activities with a Hong Kong man who has been charged with bribery and other violations by U.S. authorities.
Chi Ping Patrick Ho, 68, who heads the China Energy Fund Committee (CEFC), a charity based in Hong Kong and the U.S. state of Virginia, was charged with violating the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
Ho was accused of among other issues of being involved with bribes and promises of other benefits to Sam Kutesa, Uganda’s foreign affairs minister, in exchange for promises of business contracts for an unnamed Chinese firm.
Kutesa is also a former president of the U.N. General Assembly.
The Ugandan foreign ministry said the “interaction and engagement” that Kutesa had with Ho was “in fulfilment of his official functions as president of the U.N. General Assembly”.
“It is therefore erroneous to insinuate or infer that Hon. Sam Kutesa, from references made to him and CEFC...is linked to the bribery allegations,” a statement said.
Ho’s attorney has declined to comment to Reuters on the charges.


TBILISI (Reuters) - One Georgian special forces serviceman and three members of an armed group suspected of terrorism were killed on Wednesday in a police operation against the group on the outskirts of the capital Tbilisi, state security said.
Four other police were wounded and one member of the criminal group was arrested during the 20-hour operation at a residential block where the group was thought to be hiding.
The operation was launched late on Tuesday and went on through the night into Wednesday. Heavy shooting and explosions were heard throughout Wednesday. Residents of nearby buildings were evacuated.
“The members of the group are not Georgian citizens and it is assumed they are members of a terrorist organisation,” state security administration deputy chief Nino Giorgobiani told reporters.
She said surveillance of the suspects had been going on for several weeks and that the state security service was working with international counter-terrorism bodies to identify the group’s members and their links to criminal networks.
Giorgobiani said efforts had been made to persuade the group’s members to give themselves up but they had refused to do this.


COPENHAGEN (Reuters) - An arm found by divers near Copenhagen was weighed down with pieces of metal similar to those attached to the legs of Swedish journalist Kim Wall who died in August on board a submarine owned by a Danish inventor, local police said on Wednesday.
The arm was found about 1 km (half a mile) from the spot where Wall’s head and legs had been found in October.
Wall, a freelance journalist who was researching a story on entrepreneur and aerospace engineer Peter Madsen, went missing after he took her out to sea in his homebuilt 17-metre (56-foot) submarine in August.
On Aug. 23, police identified a torso that washed ashore in Copenhagen as Wall‘s.
Coroners examined what turned out to be a left arm after it was found in Koge Bay just outside of Copenhagen - near the route that had been searched in connection with the submarine case.
Divers and police will continue the search for the right arm along with further evidence on Thursday.
Madsen admitted to dismembering Wall on board his submarine and dumping her body parts in the sea, but he still denies murdering her and a charge of sexual assault without intercourse.
The trial has been set to take place in Copenhagen next March.
(This refiled version of the story adds distance in miles in second paragraph)


BERLIN (Reuters) - German police detained a 29-year-old man suspected of trading narcotic drugs internationally over the internet through anonymous websites and sending them by mail to customers in Germany, police said on Wednesday.
In cooperation with Dutch authorities, police seized 400,000 euros (355,345 pounds) and 75 kg (165 lb) of ecstasy, marijuana, cocaine, amphetamine and heroin at the apartments of the suspect and at his mother in the Netherlands.
The dealer and his partners, using the pseudonyms “Mr. Drug Commander” and “Drugs Squad”, were receiving orders mostly from German customers on black market websites such as “Hansa Market” and “Dream Market”, federal criminal police said.
The man, who was not identified, was arrested on Nov. 9 while entering Germany to mail 34 shipments of drugs. A day earlier, in Ingolstadt in Bavaria, police had arrested a man who had ordered marijuana and amphetamines.
Dutch authorities are still looking for other gang members.
Police said online drug shops are boosting drug consumption and trafficking, requiring a shift in approach by German authorities.
“The supposedly anonymous ordering on the Internet motivates more young people to buy, consume or even sell drugs for profit,” said federal criminal police in a statement.
Police said the investigation began in August, leading to the initial arrest in October of six people in the Bavarian town of Coburg, which in turn helped identified 12 other buyers.
German customs police in July said they expected far more cocaine to flood into Europe in the future, and had seized nearly five tonnes of the drug in northern sea ports so far this year, more than three times their total in 2016.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States hopes its determination that ethnic cleansing  occurred against the Rohingya will raise pressure on Myanmar’s military and civilian leadership to respond to the crisis and allow displaced people to return home, a U.S. official said on Wednesday.
“The determination does indicate we feel it was ... organised planned and systematic,” a senior U.S. official told reporters on a conference call. “It does not point the finger at any specific group, but there is a limited number of groups that can be involved in that planning and organisation.”


GENEVA (Reuters) - Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said on Wednesday he wanted Brexit talks to move to the next stage in December but there were red lines and Britain needed to make commitments to the rest of the European Union, especially on finance.
“We want to see us taking the decision on the next step in December but we cannot just do that without the commitments that we want,” he told reporters at in Geneva.
“There are of course red lines that we are watching and right now we need more clarifying on the financial commitment, for example, which is the hardest issue.”
A “no deal” outcome would be very bad, he said, adding that Sweden was as pragmatic as possible and had always said it wanted to retain close relations with Britain, both before and after it leaves the EU, a deadline set for March 29, 2019.
But he said Sweden was not taking any steps to build up customs infrastructure to cope with potential new trading arrangements.
“We’re right now in a phase of the negotiations where we don’t even know what the future bilateral relations will be,” he said.
Sweden’s housing sector has been booming for two decades and the central bank called on the government on Wednesday to act on proposals to tighten mortgage repayment rules, playing down worries that heavier regulation could cause a recent fall in house prices to accelerate.Löfven said the government would decide within days.
“We were given advice from the finance authority on how to handle that and we will make a decision within at the most a week. So we are right now preparing that decision,” he said.


FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Germany spy agencies should have the authority to digitally strike back against cyber criminals, the president of Germany’s new cyber security agency Zitis told Der Spiegel newsmagazine.
“As a citizen I expect that our government remains able to act even in the face of new digital threats,” the magazine on Wednesday quoted Wilfried Karl as saying in an interview.
Zitis was set up earlier this year to help develop information technology (IT) tools to fight cyber crime and track the communications of potential terrorists.
Karl made his comments a month after top German intelligence officials urged lawmakers to give them greater legal authority to “hack back” in the event of cyber attacks from foreign powers.
German officials have blamed APT28, a Russian hacker group said linked to Moscow, for the May 2015 hack of the German lower house of parliament, the Bundestag, and other cyber attacks aimed at political groups, individuals or institutions.
“Wouldn’t it be desirable to at least destroy data and documents on the thieves’ servers?” the Zitis chief said.
But he said he believed a new proposed U.S. bill that could make it legal for companies to retaliate against hackers went too far.
“Those kinds of offensive measures should be reserved for government agencies,” he said.
Karl’s comments follow the collapse on Sunday of talks to form a new coalition government, a development that has thrown Germany into political uncertainty and raised the prospect of new elections.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany’s Social Democrats (SPD) faced pressure on Wednesday to consider offering coalition talks to Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives to settle the worst political crisis in modern German history.
A leader of the smaller Free Democrats (FDP) also raised the possibility of reviving coalition talks with the conservatives and Greens that collapsed at the weekend raising fears across Europe of stalemate in the EU’s economic and political powerhouse. But the party chief later appeared to ruled it out.
The signs of possible flexibility came after President Frank-Walter Steinmeier, in a move unprecedented for a largely ceremonial position, intervened to promote talks that could avert a disruptive early repeat election.
SPD leader Martin Schulz, whose party had governed in coalition under Merkel since 2013, wants to go into opposition after September polls that knocked its support to the lowest levels since formation of the modern German republic in 1949.
But the mass-circulation Bild newspaper said 30 members of the SPD’s 153-strong parliamentary group questioned that position this week at a meeting of the parliamentary party.
SPD lawmaker Johannes Kahrs, spokesman for the Seeheimer Circle, a conservative wing in the party, urged Schulz to keep an open mind when he meets on Thursday with Steinmeier.
Kahrs told the Passauer Neue Presse newspaper that the collapse of the coalition talks had changed the situation. “We cannot just tell the German president, ‘Sorry, that’s it.'”
Bild said German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel, who handed leadership of the SPD to Schulz and became foreign minister earlier this year, also favours a resumed grand coalition.
Germany, traditionally a bastion of stability in the EU, could face months of political stagnation, further complicating agreement on reforms of euro zone governance and EU defence and asylum policies.
Merkel, who remains acting chancellor until a government is agreed, has said she would prefer to work with the SPD. If that failed, she would favour new elections over an unstable minority government.
Merkel’s 12-year hold on power was shaken at the September elections partly by the arrival of the anti-immigration AfD party in parliament.
Guenther Oettinger, an EU commissioner and member of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union (CDU), urged the SPD to think again about its rejection of coalition talks.
“The long process of forming a government is weakening Germany’s influence in Brussels,” Oettinger told Der Spiegel newsmagazine in an interview to be published on Thursday.
Axel Schaefer, deputy head of the SPD’s parliamentary group, urged the three political blocs to try again to reach agreement.
But he said his party would also talk with conservatives if asked to do so by Steinmeier, who is meeting with possible coalition partners this week.
A top official of the pro-business FDP told broadcaster ntv her party would not rule out reviving the three-way coalition talks if Merkel’s conservatives and the Greens offered a “completely new package” of proposals.
“If it really was possible to build a modern republic in the coming years, then we are the last ones who would refuse to talk,” FDP Secretary General Nicola Beer said.
But FDP chief Christian Lindner told Spiegel magazine: “For the foreseeable future, it is impossible to imagine cooperation with the Greens at the federal level.”
Stephan Weil, the SPD premier of Lower Saxony who just completed a coalition agreement with conservatives in his state, has said a new election could leave few options other than a grand coalition anyway, the Sueddeutsche newspaper reported.
Joe Kaeser, chief executive of Siemens (SIEGn.DE), told Die Welt newspaper that he hoped new elections could be avoided since the results would likely be little changed from Sept. 24.
A new poll released Wednesday showed that half of Germans favour a new election, while a fifth support a minority government. Only 18 percent want a renewal of the SPD-conservative coalition that ruled the past four years.


SOCHI, Russia (Reuters) - Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said on Wednesday that foreign interference in the conflict in Syria must end and foreign military presence in the country may only be acceptable if it is by the invitation of Syria’s government.
Rouhani, who stopped short of naming any specific nations, also told his Russian counterparts Vladimir Putin and Turkey’s Tayyip Erdogan that now there was the need to uproot the last terrorist cells in Syria and the ground was prepared for political settlement.
Rouhani was speaking at the three leaders’ meeting in the southern Russian city of Sochi.


PARIS/NANTERRE (Reuters) - French far-right leader Marine Le Pen accused two banks on Wednesday of launching a “banking fatwa” to silence her National Front party by closing bank accounts of hers and her party‘s.
The banks said they had acted within regulatory requirements but declined to offer fuller explanations.
Le Pen is smarting from defeat in this year’s presidential and parliamentary elections, during which she accused French banks of being politically biased for not lending to her campaigns.
“This is an attempt to suffocate an opposition party, and no democrat should accept that,” Le Pen told a news conference, calling on President Emmanuel Macron and other political parties to back her National Front (FN).
Le Pen said the FN would file a complaint against Societe Generale and its subsidiary, Credit du Nord. She also plans a complaint against HSBC for closing a personal account of hers.
The FN says Societe Generale closed its accounts earlier this month, and when the central bank ordered a subsidiary, Credit du Nord, to manage an account for the party, the bank refused to process cheque and credit card payments.
Societe Generale rejected the accusations. “Decisions to open or close a bank account depend purely on banking reasons ... without taking into account any political consideration,” it said in a statement.
It added that Credit du Nord offered an FN representative banking services required by law but gave no more details.
HSBC said it complied with all necessary regulations and could not publicly discuss client relationships.
‘THANK YOU AND GOODBYE’
In France, banks are allowed to close accounts with advance notice and do not have to say why.
Holding an account is a right, however, and a customer can ask the Bank of France to designate a bank that would be forced to open one. But the designated bank can choose to limit the use of the account to basic banking services.
The Bank of France would not comment.
The FN has long said it struggled with financing. It came under scrutiny for a 9 million-euro loan it got in 2014 from a now-defunct Russian bank.
It spent 12.5 million euros ($14.70 million) on the presidential election alone this year. Party supporters have since been asked to lend it money directly.
At her news conference, Le Pen asked party supporters to react to the account closures. Hours later, the hashtag “JeQuitteLaSG”, or “I Leave Societe Generale”, was the top trending topic on Twitter in France.
Government spokesman Christophe Castaner said the FN should be allowed to have a bank account and use it normally.
“But I do not know why the bank told its client, the National Front, ‘Thank you and goodbye’, so I cannot comment on the substance of the case,” he told a weekly news conference.


BERLIN (Reuters) - The leader of Germany’s pro-business Free Democrats (FDP) ruled out on Wednesday a resumption of talks on a possible coalition government with Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives and the ecologist Greens.
“For the foreseeable future, it is impossible to imagine cooperation with the Greens at the federal level,” Lindner told Spiegel magazine.
His remarks contradicted those of FDP General Secretary Nicola Beer, who had earlier said in an interview that the liberal party was not ruling out a renewal of talks on a three-way alliance with the conservatives and the Greens.


MOGADISHU (Reuters) - Somalia’s government said on Wednesday it had requested a U.S. air strike that killed scores of suspected militants to help pave the way for an upcoming ground offensive against Islamist group al Shabaab.
The U.S. military’s Africa Command (Africom) said on Tuesday it had killed more than 100 of the al Qaeda-linked insurgents in the strike on a camp 125 miles (200 km) northwest of the capital Mogadishu.
“Those militants were preparing explosives and attacks. Operations against al Shabaab have been stepped up,”         Somali Information Minister Abdirahman Omar Osman told Reuters.
“We have asked the U.S. to help us from the air to make our readied ground offensive more successful.”
Al Shabaab spokesman Abdiasis Abu Musab denied the air strike had taken place. “It is just... propaganda,” he told Reuters.
The United States has ramped up operations in Somalia this year after President Donald Trump loosened the rules of engagement in March.
Africom reported eight U.S. air strikes from May to August, compared to 13 for the whole of 2016. Including Tuesday’s strike, it has reported five this month alone.
The Pentagon said the U.S. military would continue to target militants in strikes in coordination with the Somali government.
Al Shabaab has lost control of most of Somalia’s cities and towns since African Union peacekeepers supporting Somali troops pushed the insurgency out of the capital Mogadishu in 2011. But it retains a strong presence in parts of the south and centre.
Somali president Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, a dual U.S.-Somali citizen, has taken a harder line than his predecessors against the insurgency since he was sworn in earlier this year.
But his plans have been undermined by the poor state of the Somali military and political infighting.
He has also had to try to mend fences with the powerful Habar Gidir clan, following a raid involving U.S. forces on the town of Bariire in August in which 10 people were killed including three children.


LONDON (Reuters) - Britain wants Zimbabwe to rejoin the international community following the resignation of Robert Mugabe, Prime Minister Theresa May said on Wednesday.
“We want to see that country rejoining the international community,” May told parliament.


JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South African President Jacob Zuma met Zimbabwe’s former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa in Pretoria on Wednesday, the eNCA television channel said.
The ruling ZANU-PF party nominated Mnangagwa to fill the vacancy left by Robert Mugabe who resigned as president on Tuesday, ending nearly four decades in power. Mnangagwa has said he fled Zimbabwe for his own safety.


SARAJEVO (Reuters) - In the 1990s he was the burly, brash general leading nationalist Bosnian Serbs towards a seemingly sweeping victory in Bosnia’s war. Two decades later, he was reduced to an ailing old man trying in vain to delay judgment for genocide in a U.N. court.
On Wednesday, the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) convicted Ratko Mladic, 74, in one of the highest profile war crimes cases since the post-World War Two Nuremberg trials of Germany’s Nazi leadership.
Radovan Karadzic, political leader of Bosnia’s Serbs in the 1992-95 war, and Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic, who armed and funded Bosnian Serb forces, were tried on the same charges. The ICTY convicted Karadzic in 2016 and jailed him for 40 years. Milosevic died in his cell in 2006 before his trial ended.
Defiant until the close of his five-year trial, Mladic  desperately tried to postpone the verdict. His lawyers persistently accused the ICTY of denying him proper medical care. They asked for him to be treated in Serbia or Russia, but were rebuffed.
Prosecutors demanded a life sentence for the man who critics called the “Butcher of Bosnia”. His lawyers called for his acquittal and release, arguing he never approved mass killings of Muslim or Croat civilians in Bosnia’s vicious, often neighbourhood war and was a victim of Western anti-Serb bias.
Mladic said he wanted to be remembered as a defender of Serbs in a struggle for survival against Muslims dating back centuries, and made urgent by a Muslim-Croat vote for Bosnia’s independence from Serbian-led Yugoslavia in 1992.
“THE WHOLE WORLD KNOWS WHO I AM”
“I am General Ratko Mladic. The whole world knows who I am,” he told a pre-trial hearing in 2011. “I am here defending my country and people, not Ratko Mladic.”
Mladic was charged with genocide for the slaughter of 8,000 unarmed Bosnian Muslim men and boys rounded up in the town of Srebrenica, and his forces’ 43-month-long siege of Sarajevo in which thousands of civilians were killed by artillery, mortar, tank and sniper fire from the rugged hills ringing the capital.
From the time of his ICTY indictment in mid-1995, before the war ended, it took 17 years to bring him to trial in The Hague - a testament to the loyalty he inspired among Serbs who helped conceal him and to the resilience of their nationalist cause.
But as Serbia evolved after Bosnia’s war from authoritarian rule to democracy seeking integration with the European Union,
Mladic lost his sanctuary. When Serbian police acting on an ICTY arrest warrant finally traced Mladic to a cousin’s farmhouse in May 2011, they found a penniless, shambling and ill old man.
The son of a World War Two Yugoslav partisan killed in 1945, Mladic was a general in the old communist Yugoslav People’s Army (JNA) when the multinational Balkan republic began to disintegrate in 1991 with the secession of Slovenia and Croatia.
When Bosnia’s Serbs rose up in response to a referendum for independence by Muslims and Croats, Mladic took over Belgrade’s forces in Bosnia which swiftly overran 70 percent of the country with a combination of daring, ruthlessness and brutality.
Serb paramilitaries entered the conflict with a campaign of murder, rape, mutilation and expulsion mainly against Bosnian Muslims. Dozens of towns were besieged with heavy weapons and villages were burned down as 22,000 U.N. peacekeeping troops stood by more or less helplessly, with orders not to take sides.
Mladic had a cameraman film the blitz of the Muslim enclave of Srebrenica, showing him bronzed and fit at 53, extolling his “lads” and haranguing hapless Dutch U.N. peacekeepers who took his soldier’s word that the inhabitants would be safe.
Instead, 8,000 of them were systematically executed in a massacre that took several days in July 1995.
TV footage showed Mladic asserting that he had “liberated” Srebrenica and gifted it to Serbs as revenge against “Turks” who ruled the region when it was part of the Ottoman Empire.
Muslim men and boys were separated from women, stripped of identification then shot. The dead were bulldozed into mass graves. The remains were later dug up and hauled away in trucks to be better hidden from the world in more remote mass graves.
Over 6,900 victims have since been identified by DNA tests.
The massacre was the grim culmination of a 3-1/2-year conflict in which the beefy general had pounded Sarajevo daily with the entire Bosnian Serb arsenal, killing over 11,000 people, until local sports fields were overflowing with graves.
His goal, ICTY prosecutors said, was ethnic cleansing - the forcible extermination or expulsion of Muslims, Croats and other non-Serbs to clear Bosnian lands for a “Greater Serbia”.
Prosecutors said it was a conspiracy in which Mladic and Karadzic were aided, armed and abetted by Milosevic.
Only a combination of Western pressure and covert American arms and training for Croats and Muslims turned the tide in 1995 against Mladic’s army, ultimately depriving it of equipment and fuel supplies from Serbia. NATO air strikes did the rest.
He spent only half his time at large as a hunted fugitive. Even after Milosevic fell to a pro-democracy uprising in 2000, Mladic remained well protected in various Belgrade apartments until 2005.
He received treatment at a top military hospital. Sporadic sightings put him at a Belgrade horse race or soccer match.
When finally arrested in the shabby rural farmhouse, he put up no resistance. His right arm was lame, the apparent result of an untreated stroke.
His trial had to be delayed over and over because of his shaky health. Yet in court, Mladic grinned as a judge read out the charges of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity.
Srebrenica massacre survivors attending one hearing were shocked when he made a throat-slitting gesture towards a Muslim woman who had lost her husband, son and several brothers.
In 2014, he refused to give evidence in support of old ally Karadzic, calling the tribunal a “satanic court”.
When the time finally came on Wednesday to face judgment, Mladic delayed proceedings, first by taking a bathroom break and undergoing a blood pressure test at his request, then screaming “This is all lies, you are all liars” on returning to the court. He was hustled out of the chamber, and the tribunal announced he had been convicted of genocide and crimes against humanity.
Mladic will appeal against the verdict, his lawyer said.
Even with his conviction on Wednesday, Mladic’s trial is unlikely to further post-war reconciliation in Bosnia.
The U.S.-brokered Dayton Accords of 1995 halted the bloodshed by dividing Bosnia into a semi-autonomous Serb Republic entity and a Bosniak-Croat Federation. This did not heal ethnic splits or prevent a resurgence of Serb separatism.
Most Bosnian Serbs remain convinced that Mladic is innocent, and that the tribunal is utterly biased against them. Of the 83 defendants the ICTY has convicted, over 60 of them are Serbs.
“I am a very old man ... and I am not important,” Mladic  told the tribunal. “It matters what kind of legacy I will leave behind, among my people.”


ROME (Reuters) - A deal with Libya that has slashed the number of migrants reaching Italy could scupper the ruling centre-left Democratic Party’s (PD) already dwindling hopes of staying in power next year as it is opposed by the PD’s potential coalition partners.
The deal, struck in February, is popular with the Italian public and with right-wing and anti-establishment parties now ahead in opinion polls, but it has drawn criticism from the United Nations, rights groups and many on Italy’s left.
Under the accord, Italy and the European Union pledged to finance migrant camps in Libya, and Rome also agreed to train the Libyan coastguard, part of a crackdown on migrants attempting the hazardous sea crossing to Europe.
But the deal has also led to tens of thousands of migrants being trapped in Libya, where humanitarian groups say they are locked up in appalling conditions, bought and sold, and subjected to crimes on a daily basis.
One politician who wants changes to the agreement is Emma Bonino, a former foreign minister in a centre-left government.
“I’ve always criticised this agreement with Libya. It’s a cork in a bottle that cannot hold,” Bonino told Reuters.
“Italians have the perception that they are being invaded by Muslim foreigners. It’s not true. Fear is fantastic for winning elections, but it’s simply useless for controlling migration.”
Bonino is considering forming a pro-EU party with other left-leaning figures that could support the PD ahead of next year’s national election, which must be held by May.
In other criticism of the Libya deal, Giulio Marcon, the top lawmaker in the lower house for the Italian Left party, said: “We cannot be complicit in migrant push backs.”
Left-wing voters hold humanitarian values dear, said Marcon, whose party has so far refused an alliance with the PD.
The PD needs the support of other parties, on the left in particular. It trailed the populist 5-Star Movement in a recent poll with 24 percent to 29 percent, while a centre-right coalition that includes the anti-immigrant Northern League, Silvio Berlusconi’s Forza Italia (Go Italy!) and the far-right Brothers of Italy has combined support totalling about 36 percent.
The deal with Libya, modelled on a similar one struck between the EU and Turkey, has been successful in reducing the flow of migrants into Italy, with arrivals down by about a third so far this year compared to the same period in 2016. In October alone arrivals were down about 80 percent from a year earlier.
Ordinary Italians, alarmed by the arrival of some 600,000 migrants in the past four years, have welcomed the trend. An SWG poll this month showed two thirds of Italians do not want more immigrants, fearing they will take away jobs and increase crime.
The Northern League, tapping into the anti-immigrant mood, has seen its popularity more than double to about 15 percent in three years. Its leader, Matteo Salvini, has accused “fake refugees” of “invading” Italy and bringing crime with them.
Not to be outdone, the 5-Star Movement’s candidate for prime minister, Luigi Di Maio, this summer accused charity ships rescuing migrants piled onto overcrowded and unseaworthy boats of being a “taxi service”.
Under the February deal, Libya’s coastguard has so far picked up about 20,000 migrants, including refugees. They are then forced into detention centres where they can be held indefinitely.
Last week the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights condemned the EU’s support for the Libyan coastguard as “inhuman” because intercepted migrants were imprisoned and subjected to “unimaginable horrors”.
Former U.N. secretary-general and Nobel Peace Prize winner Kofi Annan said the Libya deal suggested Italy was complicit in a breach of the Geneva Convention, which says refugees cannot be returned to a place where they may be persecuted.
“Under the Convention, you cannot push them (refugees) back. But if you make an arrangement with somebody else to keep them from moving, in a way you are complicit,” Annan said during a trip to Rome this month.
($1 = 0.8530 euros)


BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany’s pro-business Free Democrats (FDP) on Wednesday said they would not rule out renewed talks on a three-way coalition government if Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives and the Greens offered a “completely new package” of proposals.
“If it really was possible to build a modern republic in the coming years, then we are the last ones who would refuse to talk,” FDP Secretary General Nicola Beer told ntv German television.
But she added: “I can’t imagine that this will work.”


THE HAGUE (Reuters) - Former Bosnian Serb military leader Ratko Mladic will appeal his conviction and life sentence, his legal team said on Wednesday after a U.N. war crimes tribunal found him guilty of genocide.
“It is certain we will file an appeal and the appeal will be successful,” attorney Dragan Ivetic told journalists.


SARAJEVO (Reuters) - A U.N. tribunal on Wednesday convicted former Bosnian Serb military commander Ratko Mladic of genocide and crimes against humanity for orchestrating massacres and ethnic cleansing during Bosnia’s war and sentenced him to life in prison.
Here is a timeline of events leading to his arrest as well as important aspects of Mladic’s trial:
July 25 - The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) indicts Mladic and wartime Bosnian Serb political leader Radovan Karadzic on charges of genocide, crimes against humanity and violations of the laws and customs of wars.
Nov. 21 - The United States brokers the Dayton Accords that formally end Europe’s worst conflict since World War Two, with 100,000 dead and 2 million homeless. A NATO-led force deploys in the shattered country to secure implementation of the deal.
Late 1990s - Mladic is believed to move to neighbouring Serbia to avoid possible capture by international forces in Bosnia. Occasional reports surface of Mladic appearing in public in Belgrade. Karadzic also moves secretly to Serbia.
2000 - Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic is toppled by a pro-democracy uprising and successor authorities hand the former strongman over to the ICTY in 2001 for trial. ICTY Prosecutor Carla Del Ponte renews demand for arrest of Mladic and Karadzic.
2006 - A Serbian military intelligence report discloses that Mladic was using army premises until mid-2002. The European Union suspends talks on relations with Serbia over its failure to arrest war crimes fugitives including Mladic and Karadzic.
March 11, 2006 - Milosevic dies in his prison cell before his trial can be completed.
2008 - Serbian authorities arrest a disguised Karadzic
and extradite him to the ICTY in The Hague.
June 16 - Mladic’s family launch court proceedings in Serbia to declare him dead, saying he had been in poor health and they had had no contact with him for over five years.
Oct. 28 - Serbia raises reward for information leading to the arrest of Mladic to 10 million euros.
May 26 - Mladic is arrested at the farmhouse of a relative in a small town in northern Serbia.
May 29 - Serbian nationalists assault police at a Belgrade rally where about 10,000 people demand the fall of the government over Mladic’s arrest.
May 31 - Serbia extradites Mladic to the ICTY.
June 3 - Mladic appears at an ICTY hearing, calling the charges against him “obnoxious” and “monstrous words”. He declines to enter a plea, saying he needs more time to study the charges. Judge Alphons Orie schedules a new hearing for July 4.
July 4 - Judge Alphons Orie removes Mladic from the courtroom after he refuses to listen to the charges against him. Orie enters a not-guilty plea on Mladic’s behalf on all 11 charges against him.
May 16 - Mladic’s trial begins.
July 9 - The first witness, a survivor of a 1992 massacre, confronts Mladic and breaks down in tears as he tells the court about the last time he saw his father, one of 150 Muslim men killed by Bosnian Serb forces in the village of Grabovica.
April 10 - Mladic gets removed from court for challenging harrowing testimony from a survivor of the July 1995 massacre in Srebrenica of 8,000 Muslim men and boys by Bosnian Serb forces.
Jan. 28 - Mladic appears as a witness against his will in the trial of Karadzic and sidesteps questions from his old ally.
April 5 - The ICTY upholds a life sentence against Zdravko Tolimir, the former head of Bosnian Serb military intelligence who reported directly to Mladic, for genocide over his role in the Srebrenica massacre.
March 24 - The ICTY convicts Karadzic of genocide for the Srebrenica massacre, the worst atrocity in Europe since World War Two, and sentences him to 40 years.
December - Prosecution and defence teams deliver closing arguments in Mladic’s trial. Prosecutors demand life in prison for Mladic for the execution-style killings of Muslim men and boys in Srebrenica and their burial in mass graves, the long siege and bombardment of the Bosnian capital Sarajevo, and “ethnic cleansing” of Muslims and Croats in other areas. Defence lawyers argue that Mladic never ordered the Srebrenica killings and say the case against him was systematically biased.
March - Mladic’s lawyers seek his provisional release, arguing he is not getting adequate medical treatment at the U.N. detention centre in The Hague. Prosecutors argue against this.
May 11 - Judges reject Mladic’s requests for provisional release. They will reject his appeals and similar requests for release on medical grounds regularly through November.
Nov. 22 - On Mladic’s judgement day, he is hustled out of the court as the verdict is being read out for shouting “This is all lies, you are all liars!” The tribunal convicts him of 10 of 11 counts of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity, mainly over the massacre of 11,000 Srebenica men and boys and the siege of Sarajevo, and is sentenced to life in prison.
Presiding Judge Alfons Orie, in his statement, says Mladic’s crimes “rank among the most heinous known to humankind”.


OSLO (Reuters) - Ex-Bosnian Serb general Rakto Mladic’s conviction for war crimes did not come as a surprise, Serbia’s prime minister said on Wednesday.
“We need to look to the future, so we finally have a stable country,” Ana Brnabic told reporters during a visit to Oslo.
“We need to leave the past behind,” she said.
A U.N. tribunal convicted Mladic of genocide and crimes against humanity for orchestrating massacres and ethnic cleansing during Bosnia’s war and sentenced him to life in prison.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Imagine it is 3 a.m., and the president of the United States is asleep in the White House master bedroom. A military officer stationed in an office nearby retrieves an aluminium suitcase - the “football” containing the launch codes for the U.S. nuclear arsenal - and rushes to wake the commander in chief.
Early warning systems show that Russia has just launched 100 intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) at the United States, the officer informs the president. The nuclear weapons will reach U.S. targets in 30 minutes or less.
Bruce Blair, a Princeton specialist on nuclear disarmament who once served as an ICBM launch control officer, says the president would have at most 10 minutes to decide whether to fire America’s own land-based ICBMs at Russia.
“It is a case of use or lose them,” Blair says.
A snap decision is necessary, current doctrine holds, because U.S. missile silos have well-known, fixed locations. American strategists assume Russia would try to knock the missiles out in a first strike before they could be used for retaliation.
Of all weapons in the U.S. nuclear arsenal, the ICBM is the one most likely to cause accidental nuclear war, arms-control specialists say. It is for this reason that a growing number of former defence officials, scholars of military strategy and some members of Congress have begun calling for the elimination of ICBMs.
They say that in the event of an apparent enemy attack, a president’s decision to launch must be made so fast that there would not be time to verify the threat. False warnings could arise from human error, malfunctioning early warning satellites or hacking by third parties.
Once launched, America’s current generation of ICBM missiles, the Minuteman III, cannot be recalled: They have no communication equipment because the United States fears on-board gear would be vulnerable to electronic interference by an enemy.
These critics recommend relying instead on the other two legs of the U.S. nuclear “triad”: submarine-launched ballistic missiles, and heavy bombers armed with hydrogen bombs or nuclear-warhead cruise missiles. The president would have more time to decide whether to use subs or bombers.
Bombers take longer to reach their targets than ICBMs and can be recalled if a threat turns out to be a false alarm. Nuclear missile subs can be stationed closer to their targets, and are undetectable, so their locations are unknown to U.S. adversaries. There is virtually no danger the subs could be knocked out before launching their missiles.
“ANTIQUATED” ARSENAL
Among the advocates of dismantling the ICBM force is William Perry, defence secretary under President Bill Clinton. In a recent interview, Perry said the U.S. should get rid of its ICBMs because “responding to a false alarm is only too easy.” An erroneous decision would be apocalyptic, he said. “I don’t think any person should have to make that decision in seven or eight minutes.”
Leon Panetta, who served as defence secretary during the Barack Obama administration, defended the triad while in office. But in a recent interview he said he has reconsidered.
“There is no question that out of the three elements of the triad, the Minuteman missiles are at a stage now where they’re probably the most antiquated of the triad,” he said.
The risk of launch error is even greater in Russia, several arms control experts said. The United States has about 30 minutes from the time of warning to assess the threat and launch its ICBMs. Russia for now has less, by some estimates only 15 minutes.
That is because after the Cold War, Russia didn’t replace its early warning satellites, which by 2014 had worn out. Moscow now is only beginning to replace them. Meanwhile it relies mainly on ground-based radar, which can detect missiles only once they appear over the horizon.
In contrast, the United States has a comprehensive, fully functioning fleet of early warning satellites. These orbiters can detect a Russian missile from the moment of launch.
The doubts about the ICBM force are circulating as the world faces its most serious nuclear standoff in years: the heated war of words over Pyongyang’s growing atomic weapons program between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un. U.S.-Russian nuclear tensions have increased as well.
The questioning of the missile fleet also comes as the United States pursues a massive, multi-year modernization of its nuclear arsenal that is making its weapons more accurate and deadly. Some strategists decry the U.S. upgrade - and similar moves by Moscow - as dangerously destabilising.
Sceptics of the modernization program also have cited the new U.S. president’s impulsiveness as further reason for opposing the hair-trigger ICBM fleet. The enormously consequential decision to launch, said Perry, requires a president with a cool and rational personality. “I’m particularly concerned if the person lacks experience, background, knowledge and temperament” to make the decision, he said.
This month, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee held a hearing to discuss the president’s authority to launch a first-strike nuclear attack. Democratic Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts has called for that authority to be curbed, though such a break with decades of practice doesn’t have broad support.
“Donald Trump can launch nuclear codes just as easily as he can use his Twitter account,” said Markey. “I don’t think we should be trusting the generals to be a check on the president.”
A spokesperson for the White House National Security Council dismissed any suggestion that Trump lacks the skills to handle the arsenal. “The president is pre-eminently prepared to make all decisions regarding the employment of our nuclear forces,” she said.
Doubts about ICBMs predated the change of administrations in Washington.
ICBMs, detractors say, are largely useless as a deterrent against threats such as North Korea. They argue the land-based missiles can be fired only at one conceivable U.S. adversary: Russia.
That’s because, to reach an adversary such as North Korea, China or Iran from North America, the ICBMs would have to overfly Russia - thus risking an intentional or accidental nuclear response by Moscow. (A small number of U.S. ICBMs are aimed at China, in case Washington finds itself at war with both Moscow and Beijing.)
Despite the rising criticism, for now there is little chance America will retire its ICBM fleet. To supporters, eliminating that part of the triad would be like sawing one leg off a three-legged stool.
Presidents Obama and now Donald Trump have stood by them. There is little interest in Congress to consider dismantlement.
Well before Trump picked him to be defence secretary, General James Mattis raised questions about keeping the U.S. ICBM force, in part because of dangers of accidental launch. In 2015 he told the Senate Armed Services Committee: “You should ask, ‘Is it time to reduce the triad to a dyad removing the land-based missiles?'”
In his Senate confirmation hearing as defence secretary, Mattis said he now supports keeping ICBMs. They provide an extra layer of deterrence, he said, in hardened silos.
The National Security Council spokesperson said no decision had been made on keeping ICBMs. She noted that the president has ordered a review by the end of this year of U.S. nuclear policy, and no decision will be made until then.
ICBMs are part of the overall U.S. nuclear modernization program, which is expected to cost at least $1.25 trillion over 30 years. The missiles are being refurbished and upgraded to make them more accurate and lethal. And the United States is building a new class of ICBMs to be fielded around 2030.
The Air Force has confirmed that the current refurbished Minuteman IIIs have improved guidance systems and a bigger third-stage engine, which make them more precise and able to carry bigger payloads.
The U.S. nuclear missile force dates back to the 1950s. Lacking expertise in making rockets, the United States after World War II scoured Germany for the scientists who had built the V2 rockets Germany fired on England. Under a secret plan, Washington spirited scientists such as Wernher von Braun, later considered the father of American rocketry, out of Germany, away from possible war crimes prosecution, in exchange for helping the United States.
By 1947 the Cold War was on. The former Nazi rocket designers would help America build super-fast, long-range missiles that could rain nuclear warheads on the Soviet population.
The program began slowly. That changed on October 4, 1957. The Soviet Union launched Sputnik, a small satellite, into Earth orbit, beating the United States into space. For the Pentagon, the most significant fact was that Sputnik had been launched by an ICBM capable of reaching the U.S. homeland. The United States put its missile program into overdrive, launching its own ICBM in November 1959.
The ICBMs’ advantage over bombers was that they could reach their targets in 30 minutes. Even bombers taking off from European bases could take hours to reach their ground zeroes.
By 1966, once an order was given to missile crews, pre-launch time was minimized to five minutes. This resulted from a change in fuel. Before, liquid fuel powered ICBMs. In a lengthy process, it had to be loaded immediately before launch. The invention of solid fuel solved the problem. It was installed when the missile was built, and remained viable for decades.
One reason arms specialists worry about the ICBM force is that the United States and Russia have come close to committing potentially catastrophic errors multiple times.
In 1985, for example, a full nuclear alert went out when a U.S. Strategic Command computer showed that the Soviet Union had launched 200 ICBMs at the United States. Fortunately, Perry recounts in his book, “My Journey at the Nuclear Brink,” the officer in charge realized there was a fault in the computer and that no missiles had been launched. The problem was traced to a faulty circuit board, but not before the same mistake happened two weeks later.
In 1995, then-Russian president Boris Yeltsin had his finger on the button, because the Russians had detected a missile launched from Norway, which they assumed to be American. Russian officials determined just in time that it was not a nuclear missile.
They later learned it was a harmless scientific-research rocket. Norway had warned Russia well  in advance of the launch - but the information was never passed on to radar technicians.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - The Kremlin is following the situation in Ukraine’s rebel-controlled Luhansk region, where there is a standoff between the head of the rebel administration and a sacked police chief, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Wednesday.
Peskov said he was not ready to disclose the Kremlin’s views on what was happening in Luhansk, where armed men were on Tuesday blocking access to the centre of the regional capital.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Frank-Walter Steinmeier was hardly Chancellor Angela Merkel’s first choice for the largely ceremonial job of German president, but the lifelong Social Democrat may be her best hope of holding onto power amid an unprecedented political crisis.
Steinmeier, 61, a two-time foreign minister, met on Tuesday with political leaders from the Greens and pro-business Free Democrats (FDP) after Merkel’s bid to forge a three-way coalition with those parties collapsed.
On Wednesday, he will meet with Horst Seehofer, head of the Bavarian sister party of Merkel’s conservatives.
On Thursday, he will meet Martin Schulz, head of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), the second largest in the Bundestag lower house of parliament, to urge him to reconsider his party’s rejection of another “grand coalition” with Merkel’s conservatives for the good of the country.
Some 30 of the SPD’s 153 parliamentary members questioned the rejection of such a coalition this week, the Bild newspaper reported on Wednesday. It said Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel also favoured resuming the coalition that has ruled for the past four years.
Merkel favours new elections over a minority government, but Steinmeier is pressing political leaders to avoid a new poll that experts say would further strengthen the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) after it moved into parliament with nearly 13 percent of the vote on Sept. 24.
“The German president, who is now as powerful as seldom seen in German constitutional history, holds the reins,” the Rheinische Post newspaper wrote on Tuesday.
This is the first time a German president has had to get actively involved in trying to forge a new coalition government.
The architects of the German constitution devised a complicated process to prevent the frequent elections that weakened the Weimar Republic in the 1920s and facilitated the rise of Adolf Hitler.
But new elections are likely around April if Steinmeier cannot bring Merkel’s conservatives, the Greens and FDP back to the negotiating table, or persuade his former SPD colleagues to return to government. The SPD wants a spell in opposition to rebuild after its worst election result since the 1930s.
Steinmeier, following the tradition of all previous German presidents, gave up his party membership upon taking office. But he could wield some influence with top SPD players after years in leadership roles.
His first months as president were lacklustre, with some commentators sceptical that the veteran political operator could emulate the success of his predecessor Joachim Gauck, a former East German pastor, in serving as Germany’s moral compass.
But last month Steinmeier delivered a powerful address on the anniversary of German reunification and then went to Russia to try to repair strained ties with President Vladimir Putin - the first German head of state to visit Moscow since 2010.
A carpenter’s son from the west German state of North-Rhine Westphalia, Steinmeier is a long-time confidante of former chancellor Gerhard Schroeder. Steinmeier failed to win election as chancellor in 2009, but later won plaudits from the German public for donating a kidney to his seriously ill wife.
He has long experience of working with Merkel after serving as foreign minister in the first ‘grand coalition’ between the SPD and conservatives in 2005-09 and then resuming that role in 2013-17, when the two parties allied again.
He and Merkel worked closely together on the Minsk peace agreement aimed at ending fighting in eastern Ukraine - a complex deal that required hours of negotiations with Putin and Ukrainian leaders.
“I thought Minsk was his biggest accomplishment, but it may pale in comparison with the effort involved in building a functioning government in his own country,” said Olaf Boehnke of the Rasmussen Global consultancy.
“Merkel and Steinmeier actually have a good working relationship. And now he’s in the driver’s seat,” Boehnke said.


NEW DELHI (Reuters) - The Trump administration is pushing security ties between the United States, India, Japan and Australia, but the revival of the Asian “Quad” must overcome lingering mistrust in New Delhi towards its allies that hampers genuine military cooperation.
Joint naval drills have been at the heart of a relationship that analysts widely see as a move to counterbalance China’s rising power by binding the region’s leading democracies more closely together.
But while the navies of the United States, Japan and Australia can easily operate together - based on common U.S.-designed combat systems and data links - India is the outlier.
Not only are most of its ships and warplanes Russian-made, its government and military remain deeply reluctant to share data and open up sensitive military communications systems.
The United States has carried out more naval exercises with India than any other nation. But naval sources and experts say these are more about “cultural familiarisation” than drills for joint combat.
Because India will not sign an agreement on sharing data, naval exercises are conducted through voice and text commands with rudimentary SMS-style data exchange, Indian and Japanese military sources said.
“Think of it as directing your friend to your house in the 1980s. Your left may be his right, neither of you have situational awareness,” said Abhijit Iyer-Mitra, a senior fellow at New Delhi’s Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies who has tracked the military exercises.
“What the Americans want is 2017 - drop a pin on Google maps and hit share. You know where your friend is and he knows where your house is and how to get to it.”
The Indian defence ministry did not respond to a request for a comment.
The so-called Quad to discuss and cooperate on security emerged briefly as an initiative a decade ago - much to the annoyance of China - and was revived recently, with an officials-level meeting this month on the sidelines of a regional gathering in Manila.
The Trump administration has talked up cooperation with India as part of efforts for a “free, open and thriving Indo-Pacific”.
Describing the Indian and Pacific Oceans as a “single strategic arena”, U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson described India and the United States as regional “bookends”.
“In concrete terms, it will lead to great co-ordination between the Indian, Japanese and American militaries including maritime domain awareness, anti-submarine warfare, amphibious warfare, and humanitarian assistance, disaster relief, and search and rescue,” he said.
To be sure, India and the United States have steadily been bringing more powerful ships into their annual “Malabar” drills that have been expanded to include Japan in recent years.
This year the USS Nimitz carrier group was deployed for the manoeuvres off India’s eastern coast, along with an aircraft carrier from India and a helicopter carrier from Japan.
But a Japanese Maritime Self Defence Forces official said when Japan conducts drills with the Indian navy, communication is done mostly through voice transmission. There is no satellite link that would allow the two navies to access information and share monitor displays in on-board command centres.
Communication is usually the most difficult aspect of any joint drill, he said.
The exercises are meant to lay the ground for joint patrols that the U.S. eventually wants to conduct with India and its allies across the Indian Ocean and the Pacific.
U.S. Marine Corps Lieutenant Colonel Christopher Logan, a Pentagon spokesman, said better interoperability was a goal of the exercises and noted that India’s enhanced role as a major U.S. defence partner would help boost the relationship.
“The designation of India as a major defence partner is significant and is intended to elevate defence trade and technology sharing with India to a level commensurate with that of our closest allies and partners,” he said.
“As this relationship matures so will the level of interoperability.”
Last year, India signed a military logistics pact with the United States after a decade of wrangling, but two other agreements are stuck.
The United States says the Communication and Information Security Memorandum of Agreement (CISMOA) would allow it to supply India with encrypted communications equipment and systems. The Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement is the other pact that would set a framework through which the United States could share sensitive data to aid targeting and navigation with India.
India is concerned that agreeing to the CISMOA would open up its military communications to the United States, and even allow it to listen in on operations where Indian and U.S. interests may not coincide - such as against arch-rival Pakistan, military officials in New Delhi say.
Captain Gurpreet Khurana, executive director at the government-funded National Maritime Foundation, said India’s underlying concern was having its autonomy constrained by binding its military into U.S. codes and operating procedures.
Once, the Americans proposed a portable “suitcase” communications system called the CENTRIXS which could transmit full situational awareness data to Indian ships while the two navies practised together. India refused to allow it to be plugged in for the duration of the exercise, citing operational security, according to an Indian source briefed on the planning of the exercises.
Even the joint air exercises that the two countries are conducting as a follow-on to Malabar are severely restricted, the source said.
India sends its Russian-acquired Sukhoi jets to the drills, but their radars and jammers are turned off.
David Shear, who served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asia under President Barack Obama, said U.S. forces, particularly the Navy, were well aware of the interoperability constraints to interacting with India.
“They understand what the obstacles are and that this is going to be a long-term project,” he said.


DUBAI (Reuters) - Saudi Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir said on Wednesday his country will lend support to the Syrian opposition to come out unified from talks in the Saudi capital Riyadh ahead of peace talks in Geneva.
“We will provide help and support for them in all what they need,” Jubeir told reporters in Riyadh after he attended the opening session of a Syrian opposition conference aimed at unify their ranks ahead of peace talks in Geneva. “We hope they can come out of the conference unified,” he added.


HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe’s former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa will be sworn in as president on Friday following the resignation of Robert Mugabe after nearly four decades in power, state broadcaster ZBC reported on Wednesday.
Mnangagwa, who fled for his safety after Mugabe sacked him two weeks ago, will land back in Zimbabwe at 6pm (1600 GMT) at Manyame Airbase in Harare, ZBC said.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - There has to date been no confirmation from any Russian government agencies that there was an incident on Russian soil that could have caused raised levels of pollution from a radioactive isotope, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Wednesday.
Russia’s meteorological service said on Tuesday it had measured pollution of the ruthenium 106 isotope at nearly 1,000 times normal levels in the Ural mountains.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - The Kremlin said on Wednesday that Moscow would do everything in its power to defend the lawful interests of Russian businessman and lawmaker Suleiman Kerimov arrested by French police at Nice airport on Monday in connection with a tax evasion case.
“Intensive work is now being carried out by the foreign ministry,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a conference call with reporters. “We will do everything in our power to protect his lawful interests.”


BEIJING (Reuters) - China is shedding few tears over the ousting of its old friend Robert Mugabe as president of Zimbabwe, fed up with the ruinous state of its economy and confident a new government will not antagonise China or change course on policies towards it.
China pointedly failed to offer any open support for Mugabe after the army took power last week, instead calling vaguely for a peaceful resolution under a legal framework and for talks to bridge differences.
On Wednesday, the foreign ministry said it respected Mugabe’s decision to resign as president, and that he remained a  “good friend” of China’s who made “historic contributions to Zimbabwe’s independence and liberation”.
China’s friendship with Mugabe dates back to Zimbabwe’s independence struggle, which China supported.
Mugabe has visited China numerous times, most recently in January when President Xi Jinping told him: “China will never forget its old friends.”
But trade has sagged amid Zimbabwe’s economic turmoil of recent years, and China does not rely on it for any crucial raw materials, unlike Zambia for its copper or Angola and oil.
China’s total trade with Zimbabwe in 2016 was worth $1.11 billion (837.99 million pounds), down 15 percent on-year, a fraction of the $35.3 billion in trade China and South Africa did. Last year, China did more trade with Tunisia and Senegal than Zimbabwe.
It has been clear to China what has caused the problems, and China showed no desire to prop up Mugabe in his hour of need.
China will not interfere and is happy to let Zimbabwe’s people make their own choices, said Shen Xiaolei, an Africa expert at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences government think-tank.
“The ruling party is fighting amongst itself, and his economic policies and national governance have had many problems,” Shen said.
“Zimbabwe’s regime was certainly going to get into trouble; I just didn’t expect it would happen so fast.”
In contrast to his elevated status on the continent, Mugabe is reviled in the West as a despot whose disastrous handling of the economy and willingness to resort to violence to maintain power destroyed one of Africa’s most promising states.
In 2015, Mugabe won the Confucius Peace Prize, supposed to be China’s answer to the Nobel Peace Prize, but he turned it down according to Zimbabwe media after he learned it had no connection with the Chinese government.
China had been an important ally on the world stage too for Mugabe.
In 2008, China vetoed a proposed Western-backed U.N. resolution that would have imposed an arms embargo on Zimbabwe and financial and travel restrictions on Mugabe and 13 other officials, saying it would “complicate” conflict.
China has denied that it knew anything about the army take over, despite a visit to Beijing by Zimbabwe’s military chief, General Constantino Chiwenga, shortly before he moved against Mugabe.
On Monday, the Chinese embassy in South Africa said it was “complete nonsense” to suggest Chiwenga had tipped off China about his plan, saying this was an attempt to smear China and that Mugabe had in any case approved Chiwenga’s visit.
‘WANTON SQUANDERER’
However, the embassy also did not offer any support to Mugabe, reiterating that China believed Zimbabwe’s crisis was an internal affair and that African people should resolve African problems.
China’s frustrations with Mugabe had begun to play out in its state media. Over the past week, Chinese media has run unfavourable articles about his wife, Grace, with online news portal Sina calling her “a wanton squanderer”.
On Sunday, the WeChat account of the overseas edition of the ruling Communist Party’s official People’s Daily carried a largely negative account of a 1985 visit by Mugabe to Beijing when he met former paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, the architect of China’s reforms.
Showing pictures of Zimbabweans carrying bundles of cash during its hyperinflation crisis, the paper said Zimbabwe’s chaos could in large part be traced to Mugabe’s extreme leftist, populist policies.
Zhang Weiwei, a professor at Shanghai’s Fudan University, described a conversation he interpreted between Deng and Mugabe in which Deng warned him of China’s mistakes and urged him to embark on the same reforms as China.
Mugabe did not seem to get the message, Zhang wrote.
“This person didn’t take anything in, and that will be his loss,” Zhang cited an exasperated Deng as saying after the meeting.
There is confidence too for China that Mugabe’s former vice president and likely successor, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whose sacking prompted the military to take power, will not upset China.
State media has pointed out he is a known quantity, with frequent visits of his own to China.
Whereas Beijing has worried about anti-Chinese feeling in Zambia, where some workers have accused Chinese firms of abuses and underpaying, there have been no such problems in Zimbabwe.
“China and Africa are all-weather friends, and China and Zimbabwe are no exception,” said Wang Wei, an associate research fellow at the foreign ministry’s China Institute of International Studies.
“It does not matter what changes there are in government officials, the broader trend is still to develop friendly relations between China and Zimbabwe and China and Africa to promote joint prosperity and development.”


KUWAIT (Reuters) - Kuwait’s elderly ruler, Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber al-Sabah, was admitted to hospital on Wednesday for medical checks after suffering from a cold, the state news agency KUNA reported.
It cited the Emiri Court Affairs Minister Sheikh Nasser Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah as saying that the 88-year-old Sheikh Sabah would undergo “a normal medical checkup after going through a cold.”
The agency gave no further details.
A veteran diplomat, Sheikh Sabah has been recently led mediation efforts to heal a bitter rift between some Arab countries, including regional powerhouse Saudi Arabia, and Qatar over allegations that Doha supported terrorism, a charge Qatar denies.
Born in Kuwait on June 16, 1929, Sheikh Sabah is known as the “dean of Arab diplomacy” for his work as foreign minister to restore relations with Arab states which backed Baghdad during the 1990-1991 Gulf War, when Kuwait was occupied by Iraqi forces.
He was nominated ruler of the key U.S. regional ally and OPEC oil exporter in 2006, after Emir Sheikh Jaber al-Ahmad al-Sabah died and his successor, Sheikh Saad al-Abdullah al-Sabah, was appointed only to be unanimously voted out of office by parliament due to illness.


ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkey received bids last Friday for the production of 500 Altay battle tanks, of which 250 are optional, Defence Minister Nurettin Canikli said on Wednesday.
Speaking to parliament’s budget commission, Canikli said the tender would be finalised in the coming days. The domestic Altay tank project is worth an estimated 7 billion euros (6.22 billion pounds).


BERLIN (Reuters) - Half of Germans are in favour of calling a new election after Chancellor Angela Merkel failed to reach a deal to form a new coalition with two other parties, while a fifth back forming a minority government, an opinion poll showed on Wednesday.
The poll, conducted by INSA for the Bild daily, showed 49.9 percent favouring another election.
It also showed 48.5 percent think the centre-left Social Democrats (SPD) are right to rule out joining a new “grand coalition” with Merkel’s conservatives, which only 18 percent would favour. The SPD lost ground in the September election after sharing power with Merkel for the last four years.
The collapse of talks between Merkel’s conservative bloc, the pro-business Free Democrats (FDP) and environmentalist Greens has thrown Germany into political uncertainty and raised the prospect of new elections.
The poll showed that 28 percent blame FDP leader Christian Lindner for the failure of the talks, followed by 27 percent, who blame Merkel, while only 13 percent blame Greens leader Cem Ozdemir.
Four out of 10 people polled say Merkel should run again as chancellor if new elections are called, while 24 percent would prefer another candidate for her Christian Democrats (CDU), although there is little consensus on who that should be.
The poll showed that most voters would prefer a coalition between the CDU and FDP after new elections, followed by a coalition between SPD, Greens and the left-wing Linke.
However, the poll showed that a new election would bring little change to the results of the September vote, with the CDU down slightly on 30 percent, the SPD steady on 21 percent, the Greens on 10 percent and the FDP on 11 percent.
That would still mean that the only possible coalitions with a majority would be between the CDU and the SPD or between the CDU, FDP and Greens.


SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australia’s second-largest state on Wednesday took another step towards adopting a law allowing voluntary assisted dying for terminally ill patients.
Any resident of Victoria state over 18, with a terminal illness and with less than six months to live can request a lethal dose of medication under the new legislation.
Assisted dying will remain illegal in Australia’s other five states.
In a vote in Victoria’s upper house, 22 of 40 senators supported the legislation.
The legislation required amendments to pass the upper house, including halving the time frame for eligible patients to access the scheme, reduced from 12 months to live to six months to live.
The amendments must be approved by the lower house before becoming law. The legislation is not expected to be opposed.
There will be exemptions for sufferers of conditions such as motor neurone disease and multiple sclerosis, who can request a lethal dose of medication even if they have been given up to a year to live.
Many countries have legalized euthanasia, including Canada, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and some states in the United States.
But Australia’s federal government has opposed legalizing euthanasia even though the remote Northern Territory, which does not hold Australian statehood, became the first jurisdiction in the world to do so in 1995.
The federal government enacted its own legislation to override the Northern Territory law in 1997 under rules allowed by the constitution. State law, however, can not be overridden.


BEIJING (Reuters) - The former head of China’s powerful internet regulator is under investigation for suspected corruption, the ruling Communist Party said, the latest senior official to be caught up in a sweeping campaign against graft.
Lu Wei was suspected of serious discipline breaches, the party’s corruption-busting Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI) said in a brief statement late on Tuesday, using a euphemism for graft.
Reuters was unable to reach Lu or a representative to seek comment.
At the height of his influence, Lu, a colourful and often brash official by Chinese standards, was seen as emblematic of China’s increasingly pervasive internet controls.
Organisers of China’s first World Internet Conference in 2014, set up under Lu to promote Beijing’s vision of internet governance, irked foreign tech firms by seeking their agreement on a last-minute declaration on “internet sovereignty”.
Tech industry representatives ultimately declined to sign the pledge, and rights groups condemned the declaration as an attempt to undermine internet freedom.
In 2015, he told reporters, “Indeed, we do not welcome those that make money off China, occupy China’s market, even as they slander China’s people. These kinds of websites I definitely will not allow in my house.”
But courting China’s powerful internet regulator, the Cyberspace Administration of China, was a key task for companies hoping to stay in his good graces or gain access to the huge internet market.
When Lu visited Facebook Inc’s U.S. campus in 2014, Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of the social networking site that has long been blocked in China, greeted Lu in Mandarin, according to a Chinese government website.
But Lu’s downfall, foreshadowed by his June 2016 replacement as head of the internet regulator and the loss of his other posts, is unlikely to signal a reversal of internet control policies, which have tightened further under successor Xu Lin.
In a separate statement on its website on Wednesday, the CCDI emphasised the significance of Lu being the first “tiger”, or senior official, to be brought to heel for corruption since the key 19th Communist Party Congress held last month.
It said that under Lu, the cyberspace administration did not carry out President Xi Jinping’s instructions in a timely or resolute fashion.
“The improper use of power occurred on occasion, and the safeguarding of political security was not strong enough,” it said, without elaborating on any of Lu’s specific wrongdoings.
Lu worked his way up though China’s official Xinhua news agency before becoming head of propaganda in Beijing and then moving to internet work in 2013. He became a deputy propaganda minister after being replaced at the internet regulator.
The government has blocked sites it deems could challenge Communist Party rule or threaten stability, including sites such as Facebook and Google’s main search engine and Gmail service.
Xi has waged war against deep-rooted corruption since taking office five years ago, punishing hundreds of thousands of officials.


(Reuters) - Three-times Olympic gold medallist Gabby Douglas said on Tuesday she was sexually abused by former USA Gymnastics team physician Larry Nassar, the latest in a list of female athletes to accuse the doctor of misconduct.
Douglas, who last week was criticized for placing some of the onus on women to avoid sexual harassment, apologised again for her remarks while adding that she too was abused by Nassar, who is in jail awaiting sentencing after pleading guilty to federal child pornography charges.
In an Instagram post on Tuesday addressing last week’s comments that were viewed by some as victim shaming, Douglas wrote: ”It would be like saying that because of the leotards we wore, it was our fault that we were abused by Larry Nassar.
“I didn’t publicly share my experiences as well as many other things because for years we were conditioned to stay silent and honestly some things were extremely painful.”
Jeff Raymond, a publicist for Douglas, confirmed in an email that the gymnast was in fact “confirming that she too was a victim of Larry Nassar.”
Nassar’s attorney, Matt Newburg, was not immediately available for comment but has previously said that due to a gag order imposed he had no comment.
Douglas is the third member of the ‘Fierce Five’ gymnastics team who won a team gold at the 2012 London Olympics to allege abuse by Nassar, joining Aly Raisman and McKayla Maroney.
It was after Raisman’s allegations last week that Douglas wrote in a since-deleted post on Twitter that “it is our responsibility as women to dress modestly and be classy. Dressing in a provocative/sexual way entices the wrong crowd.”


JAKARTA (Reuters) - Indonesia’s Mount Agung volcano in Bali has let out a puff of black smoke and ash in a small eruption, prompting Singapore to advise its citizens to be ready to evacuate the holiday island at short notice amid concern about a bigger eruption.
Authorities have not changed the alert status on Agung, which remains at one level below the highest and there have been no reports of flight cancellations.
“Singaporeans should defer non-essential travel to the affected areas of the island at this juncture,” Singapore’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a travel notice on Wednesday.
“You should also be ready to evacuate at short notice.”
Eruptions could result in ash clouds that could “severely disrupt air travel”, it said.
Agung looms menacingly over eastern Bali at a height of just over 3,000 metres (9,842 feet). It last erupted in 1963, killing more than 1,000 people and razing several villages.
Indonesia has nearly 130 volcanoes, more than any other country. Many of them show high levels of activity but it can be months before an eruption.
A spokesman for Indonesia’s National Disaster Mitigation agency, said via a text message that there had been a “phreatic eruption” late on Tuesday with black smoke reaching 700 metres (2,300 ft), followed by falling ash, gravel and sand.
“These types of eruptions — called phreatic — are the product of rock that already exists being shattered violently when water heated by the rising magma under Agung quickly turns to steam,” according to a blog post on the Discovermagazine.com website.
The disaster agency recommended against any activity within 6-7.5 km (3.7-4.6 miles) of the crater. It said that 29,245 people were staying in 278 evacuation camps.
At one stage, after authorities put Agung’s alert status at the highest level of four in September, more than 130,000 people  left their homes. The alert level was lowered to three on Oct. 29.
Australia left its travel advice unchanged and told citizens to “monitor local media reports, follow the instructions of local authorities, and stay outside the existing exclusion zone”.
Bali, famous for its surf, beaches and temples, attracted nearly 5 million visitors last year, but business has slumped in areas around the volcano since September when Agung’s volcanic tremors began to increase.
Tourism, a cornerstone of Bali’s economy, is Indonesia’s fourth-biggest earner of foreign currency after natural resources like coal and palm oil.


TAIPEI/BEIJING (Reuters) - Air China Ltd has indefinitely suspended flights between Beijing and Pyongyang, citing poor demand as North Korea faces growing sanctions from the United States over its nuclear weapons and missile programs.
An official in the company’s Beijing-based press office, who only gave his surname as Ding, told Reuters on Wednesday that flights were suspended because “business was not good”. He declined to comment on when flights might resume.
The suspension by China’s national flag carrier comes shortly after a visit by a senior Chinese envoy to the city and also coincides with a U.S. decision to put North Korea back on a list of state sponsors of terrorism.
Air China flights to Pyongyang, which have traditionally operated on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, began in 2008, but have frequently been cancelled because of unspecified problems, state media has said.
Last year, Air China halted flights seasonally for winter but resumed them in March. So far it is not selling tickets for any 2018 flights, according to Routes Online.
One staff member in the company’s Pyongyang office who declined to give his name told Reuters that Air China can resume the flights whenever there is enough demand and the office will operate normally even while there are no scheduled flights between Beijing and Pyongyang.
Air China’s Beijing-based press office declined to provide further comment.
The company cancelled some flights in April but later said that it would increase their number in May.
The United States has urged China to do more to press North Korea to stop what the United States sees as belligerent defiance of U.N. resolutions.
China’s foreign ministry on Tuesday said that it hoped all parties could contribute to resolving the issue on the Korean peninsula peacefully. It also said that it was not aware of the Air China situation, adding that airlines made their decisions based on market needs.


MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Mexican leftist presidential frontrunner Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has pledged in his manifesto to clamp down on financial crime, and tighten money laundering, banking and tax regulations if elected next July.
Lopez Obrador, the 64-year-old former mayor of Mexico City and a two-time presidential candidate, on Monday unveiled his 2018 policy platform, vowing to boost infrastructure spending while preserving economic stability.
In his 415-page manifesto, published late on Monday, the founder of the National Regeneration Movement (MORENA) party said he would combat money laundering by tightening controls on the banking system, including tougher sanctions for public officials convicted of financial crimes, a new conflict-of-interest law and longer sentences for tax offences.
“Banks and financial institutions aren’t victims, but rather those principally responsible for, and benefiting from, the total lack of control in money laundering,” the proposal said.
Lopez Obrador’s plan also aims to ensure transparency in sworn-wealth declarations and to block the right to confidential information for people under investigation for financial crimes.
AMLO, as he is known locally, has sought to deflect accusations that he would pursue Venezuela-style socialist policies if elected, vowing instead to clean up the country’s graft-stained politics.
Mexico’s government estimates that the drug trade, tax fraud and other crimes are worth at least 1.13 trillion pesos (44.15 billion pounds)a year in Mexico, with all of the funds susceptible to money laundering, according to a classified report seen by Reuters in October.
The manifesto also gave details on Lopez Obrador’s plan to scrap President Enrique Pena Nieto’s new $13 billion (9.81 billion pounds) Mexico City airport project, which is currently under construction.
Lopez Obrador’s plan recognises the need to ease traffic and delays at Mexico City’s existing airport, but proposes preserving it while expanding a nearby military site.
AMLO would add two runways and a terminal at the Saint Lucia International Airport in the State of Mexico. The expansion would cost 50 billion pesos and take less than three years, resulting in five runways shared between Saint Lucia and the current airport, he said.
The document said this alternative would cost about one-third what will be spent on the new airport, which Lopez Obrador says would drain government coffers with maintenance costs.
Pena Nieto’s office said in a statement that cancelling the project would cause job losses and send a bad signal.
“The macroeconomic risk for Mexico would be enormous, as it would be sending the message that Mexico doesn’t respect contracts nor private investment,” the statement added.


SUWON, South Korea (Reuters) - A North Korean soldier who defected to South Korea in a dash across the border last week has recovered consciousness and is breathing on his own following two operations to extract bullets from his body, the hospital treating him said on Wednesday.
The soldier, who requires further intensive care, is cooperating with treatment but is hesitant to speak and shows signs of depression, Ajou University Hospital said in a statement.


TOKYO (Reuters) - The timing of Emperor Akihito’s abdication, Japan’s first in nearly two centuries, is to be discussed by a special panel that will meet from Dec. 1, the top government spokesman said on Wednesday.
Akihito, who turns 84 on Dec. 23 and has had heart surgery and treatment for prostate cancer, said in rare remarks last year that he feared age might make it hard to fulfil his duties.
A law adopted in June that allows him to step down and be succeeded by Crown Prince Naruhito, 57, left details, such as timing, to be worked out.
News the Imperial Household Council - whose 10 members include Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and the chief justice of the Supreme Court along with two royals - would convene grabbed domestic headlines after Abe called on Akihito on Tuesday, apparently to inform the emperor of the meeting.
Once considered divine, Japan’s emperor is defined in the post-war constitution as a “symbol of the state and of the unity of the people”, and he has no political power.
But Akihito, who has spent much of his time on the throne seeking to soothe the wounds of a war fought in his father Hirohito’s name, and consoling people suffering from disasters or other woes, is widely respected by many average Japanese.
At a special news conference to announce the meeting, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga did not comment on media reports that two options were being considered - March 31, 2019, or April 30 that year.
“After hearing (the panel‘s) opinion, based on that, we would like to decide the date promptly,” he said.
The government had proposed the emperor retire at the end of 2018 but Imperial Household Agency officials demurred, media have said, citing a cluster of rituals and other events around that time.
Some in government, however, now worry an alternate proposal of March 31, 2019, would be complicated by nationwide local elections set for that spring, media said.
Once Akihito steps down, a new “imperial era” will begin, replacing the current “Heisei”, or “achieving peace” period, which began on Jan. 8, 1989, the day he took the throne.
Japan uses the Western-style Gregorian calendar but has also preserved the ancient custom in which the reign of a new emperor ushers in a new era.


SYDNEY (Reuters) - A ninth Australian lawmaker quit parliament on Wednesday after discovering she was a dual national, the latest casualty in a widening constitutional crisis that has already cost the government its majority.
The resignation of Skye Kakoschke-Moore, one of three senators in the centre-right Nick Xenophon Team, over the surprise revelation that she was a British citizen by descent, does not affect the government’s position in the upper house.
“Their advice was extremely surprising to me,” Kakoschke-Moore told reporters in Adelaide, after having learnt from  Britain’s Home Office that her mother’s birth in then-colonial Singapore in 1957 made her British by descent.
Australia’s 116-year-old constitution bans dual citizens  from holding national office, in a bid to prevent split allegiances.
The crisis, which is likely to ripple even wider in coming weeks as lawmakers are required to prove their status, has already cut a swath through Australia’s parliament.
The ruling centre-right coalition lost its one-seat majority in the lower house after Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce was found ineligible for office and expelled by the High Court. Another resignation has since weakened it further.
Adherence to the dual-citizenship rule, in a country where more than half the population of 24 million were either themselves, or have a parent, born overseas, has only recently come under the spotlight, with the High Court adopting a strict interpretation of the law.
In response, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull ordered all lawmakers to prove they comply with the laws by Dec. 5, and at least one lawmaker besides those who have quit has raised the possibility that she is ineligible.
Senate votes from 2016 will be recounted to decide on a replacement for Kakoschke-Moore.
By-elections set for Dec. 2 and Dec. 16, to replace Joyce and a lower-house government lawmaker who resigned on discovering he was British, are shaping as crucial for the government’s survival.
Joyce is expected to retain his seat, internal party polling published by the Australian newspaper showed, but former tennis champion John Alexander must contend with a high-profile rival in former New South Wales state Premier Kristina Keneally.
The government would be reduced to minority rule if Alexander lost, forcing it to depend on a handful of independent lawmakers to retain power and pass laws.


NEW YORK (Reuters) - Haitian immigrants on Tuesday decried a U.S. decision to end a programme that granted 59,000 Haitians temporary visas after the 2010 earthquake, saying they would be sent back to a country that has yet to recover from that disaster and others since.
The United States offered Temporary Protected Status, or TPS, to Haitians after the January 2010 earthquake killed some 300,000 people and devastated a country that has long been the poorest in the Americas.
The administration of former President Barack Obama  extended the programme several times, finding that conditions in Haiti were too dire to send the beneficiaries home. President Donald Trump’s administration, after previously granting a six-month extension, announced on Monday that it would end TPS for Haiti in July 2019.
Any Haitian who cannot obtain another kind of U.S. visa will be subject to deportation back to the Caribbean nation, where some earthquake victims are still homeless and the country is wobbling from Hurricane Matthew, a cholera outbreak and political instability.
“We’re just left in a void,” said Sebastian Joseph, 26, a Haitian immigrant living in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn   where Haitians and other Caribbeans are concentrated.
He said virtually all Haitians want to stay in the United States, where they have carved out a niche in construction and healthcare services such as caring for the elderly and sick.
“America has been the home of the free for 200 years or more. Everybody wants to come to America,” Joseph said. “A lot of people will go back to nothing.”
Trump’s supporters note that the visa programme was always meant to be temporary and that Trump ran a 2016 presidential campaign promising restrictive immigration policies.
At least one Haitian TPS recipient in Brooklyn accepted that eventually she must return.
“If they say I have 18 months and that’s it, I say thank God, and then I will go,” said Margaret Etienne, who gave birth to a 3-year-old son here who is now a U.S. citizen.
“It’s my country. I love my country,” she said after buying takeout from a Haitian restaurant with her son on a stretch of Church Avenue that is also called Bob Marley Boulevard, after the late Jamaican musician.
In ending the TPS designation, acting Secretary of Homeland Security Elaine Duke said she had determined that the “extraordinary but temporary conditions caused by the 2010 earthquake no longer exist.”
Some critics dispute that Haiti has recovered and question how Duke reached such a conclusion.
Senator Marco Rubio, a Republican from Florida, the state with the most Haitians, urged Trump to extend TPS, warning in a column he wrote for the Miami Herald that “Haitians sent home will face dire conditions, including lack of housing, inadequate health services and low prospects for employment.”
Fifty-nine percent of Haiti’s population lives below the poverty line of $2.41 per day, according to the World Bank.
“It’s not going to be good for me. I don’t know what I would do,” said Ives Joseph Laforgue, 63, an unemployed Haitian immigrant in Flatbush who said he had open-heart surgery in 2014 and lives off the charity of Brooklyn’s Haitian community. Still, he said he would have even less in Haiti.
Haitian community leaders and pro-immigration politicians in New York on Tuesday pledged to pressure the Trump administration to extend TPS.
Among them was U.S. Representative Nydia Velazquez, a Democrat who introduced legislation that would protect from deportation immigrants who have TPS and Deferred Enforced Departure (DED), another programme subject to presidential discretion that was extended by Obama but is due to expire in March 2018.
Ricot Dupuy, station manager of Radio Soleil, a Haitian-themed broadcaster in New York, said he thinks the decision is racially motivated.
“This pressure to send immigrants back home ... The idea is to whiten America,” Dupuy said from his Brooklyn studio.
“The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is not stupid. They know that TPS holders, it’s good for this country. The business community knows it’s good for them. And eventually they may have the last word.”


MAR DEL PLATA, Argentina (Reuters) - The search for a missing Argentine submarine and its 44-member crew was helped by calmer seas on Tuesday, but there were no new clues about its location and worries multiplied because the vessel may be running low on oxygen, a navy spokesman said.
The ARA San Juan was en route from Ushuaia, the world’s southernmost city, to its base in Mar del Plata and was about 300 miles (480 km) off the coast when it gave its last location on Wednesday, soon after reporting an electrical malfunction.
If the German-built submarine had sunk or was otherwise unable to rise to the surface since it sent its last signal, it would be winding down its seven-day oxygen supply.
“Oxygen is a permanent worry. Every day that passes is more critical,” naval commander Gabriel Galeazzi said at an evening news conference in Mar del Plata.
More than a dozen boats and planes from Argentina, the United States, Britain, Chile and Brazil have joined the search. Authorities had been mainly scanning from the sky as storms halted the maritime hunt last weekend.
The weather improved on Tuesday, helping search efforts by sea. Wind speed slowed and waves that rose as high as 8 meters (26 feet) at the weekend diminished.
“The search by patrol ships has become more effective thanks more than anything to less pounding by the waves, which have fallen to three or four meters,” navy spokesman Enrique Balbi told reporters in Buenos Aires.
“We have to make the most of today and tomorrow because on Thursday the weather is expected to get more complicated,” he said.
Also on Tuesday, authorities investigated white flares spotted in the South Atlantic overnight. Searchers found an empty floating raft, and noticed the flares from a distance. But the raft’s brand suggested it did not belong to the ARA San Juan, which was equipped with only red flares for emergencies and green flares for other situations, the navy said.
Searchers have suffered other disappointments.
Analysis of satellite signals and sounds detected by underwater probes, initially thought to be messages from the crew, has found they did not come from the vessel.
“The sounds could be biological. We have discarded the possibility that it was a clanging of morse code against the hull of the submarine,” Balbi said.
Relatives of crew members have been gathered at a naval base in Mar del Plata, where the search is being coordinated.
The ARA San Juan was launched in 1983, the newest of three submarines in the navy’s fleet, and underwent maintenance in 2008 in Argentina. Its four diesel engines and its electric propeller engines were replaced, according to specialist publication Jane’s Sentinel.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A group of about a dozen U.S. State Department officials have taken the unusual step of formally accusing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson of violating a federal law designed to stop foreign militaries from enlisting child soldiers, according to internal documents reviewed by Reuters.
A confidential State Department “dissent” memo, which Reuters was first to report on, said Tillerson breached the Child Soldiers Prevention Act when he decided in June to exclude Iraq, Myanmar, and Afghanistan from a U.S. list of offenders in the use of child soldiers. This was despite the department publicly acknowledging that children were being conscripted in those countries.
[tmsnrt.rs/2jJ7pav]
Keeping the countries off the annual list makes it easier to provide them with U.S. military assistance. Iraq and Afghanistan are close allies in the fight against Islamist militants, while Myanmar is an emerging ally to offset China’s influence in Southeast Asia.
Documents reviewed by Reuters also show Tillerson’s decision was at odds with a unanimous recommendation by the heads of the State Department’s regional bureaus overseeing embassies in the Middle East and Asia, the U.S. envoy on Afghanistan and Pakistan, the department’s human rights office and its own in-house lawyers.
[tmsnrt.rs/2Ah6tB4]
“Beyond contravening U.S. law, this decision risks marring the credibility of a broad range of State Department reports and analyses and has weakened one of the U.S. government’s primary diplomatic tools to deter governmental armed forces and government-supported armed groups from recruiting and using children in combat and support roles around the world,” said the July 28 memo.
State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert, questioned at length by reporters on the issue at her daily briefing, strongly defended Tillerson’s decision as valid and in “technical compliance with the law in the way he read it.”
”No one in the United States government likes the idea of the use of child soldiers,“ she said. ”It’s abhorrent.
Asked at a photo opportunity with the visiting Peruvian foreign minister about his decision, Tillerson sidestepped any direct response to the dissenting officials’ complaint.
Reuters reported in June that Tillerson had disregarded internal recommendations on Iraq, Myanmar and Afghanistan. The new documents reveal the scale of the opposition in the State Department, including the rare use of what is known as the “dissent channel,” which allows officials to object to policies without fear of reprisals.
The views expressed by the U.S. officials illustrate ongoing tensions between career diplomats and the former chief of Exxon Mobil Corp appointed by President Donald Trump to pursue  an “America First” approach to diplomacy.
The child soldiers law passed in 2008 states that the U.S. government must be satisfied that no children under the age of 18 “are recruited, conscripted or otherwise compelled to serve as child soldiers” for a country to be removed from the list. The statute extends specifically to government militaries and government-supported armed groups like militias.
The list currently includes the Democratic Republic of Congo, Nigeria, Somalia, South Sudan, Mali, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.
In a written response to the dissent memo on Sept. 1, Tillerson adviser Brian Hook acknowledged that the three countries did use child soldiers. He said, however, it was necessary to distinguish between governments “making little or no effort to correct their child soldier violations ... and those which are making sincere - if as yet incomplete - efforts.”
[tmsnrt.rs/2zWGRt0]
Hook made clear that America’s top diplomat used what he sees as his discretion to interpret the law.
‘A POWERFUL MESSAGE’
Foreign militaries on the list are prohibited from receiving aid, training and weapons from Washington unless the White House issues a waiver based on U.S. “national interest.” In 2016, under the Obama administration, both Iraq and Myanmar, as well as others such as Nigeria and Somalia, received waivers.
At times, the human rights community chided President Barack Obama for being too willing to issue waivers and exemptions, especially for governments that had security ties with Washington, instead of sanctioning more of those countries.
“Human Rights Watch frequently criticized President Barack Obama for giving too many countries waivers, but the law has made a real difference,” Jo Becker, advocacy director for the group’s children’s rights division, wrote in June in a critique of Tillerson’s decision.
The dissenting U.S. officials stressed that Tillerson’s decision to exclude Iraq, Afghanistan and Myanmar went a step further than the Obama administration’s waiver policy by contravening the law and effectively easing pressure on the countries to eradicate the use of child soldiers.
The officials acknowledged in the documents reviewed by Reuters that those three countries had made progress. But in their reading of the law, they said that was not enough to be kept off a list that has been used to shame governments into completely eradicating the use of child soldiers.
‘UNCONSCIONABLE ACTIONS’
Ben Cardin, ranking Democrat on the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, wrote to Tillerson on Friday saying there were “serious concerns that the State Department may not be complying” with the law and that the secretary’s decision “sent a powerful message to these countries that they were receiving a pass on their unconscionable actions.”
The memo was among a series of previously unreported documents sent this month to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the State Department’s independent inspector general’s office that relate to allegations that Tillerson violated the child soldiers law.
Legal scholars say that because of the executive branch’s latitude in foreign policy there is little legal recourse to counter Tillerson’s decision.    Herman Schwartz, a constitutional law professor at American University in Washington, said U.S. courts would be unlikely to accept any challenge to Tillerson’s interpretation of the child soldiers law as allowing him to remove a country from the list on his own discretion.
The signatories to the document were largely senior policy experts with years of involvement in the issues, said an official familiar with the matter. Reuters saw a copy of the document that did not include the names of those who signed it.
Tillerson’s decision to remove Iraq and Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, from the list and reject a recommendation by U.S. officials to add Afghanistan was announced in the release of the government’s annual human trafficking report on June 27.
Six days earlier, a previously unreported memo emailed to Tillerson from a range of senior diplomats said the three countries violated the law based on evidence gathered by U.S. officials in 2016 and recommended that he approve them for the new list.
It noted that in Iraq, the United Nations and non-governmental organizations “reported that some Sunni tribal forces ... recruited and used persons younger than the age of 18, including instances of children taking a direct part in hostilities.”
Ali Kareem, who heads Iraq’s High Committee for Human Rights, denied the country’s military or state-backed militias use child soldiers. ”We can say today with full confidence that we have a clean slate on child recruitment issues,” he said.
The memo also said “two confirmed cases of child recruitment” by the Myanmar military “were documented during the reporting period.” Human rights advocates have estimated that dozens of children are still conscripted there.
Myanmar government spokesman Zaw Htay challenged accusers to provide details of where and how child soldiers are being used. He noted that in the latest State Department report on human trafficking, “they already recognised (Myanmar) for reducing of child soldiers” – though the report also made clear some children were still conscripted.
The memo said further there was “credible evidence” that a government-supported militia in Afghanistan “recruited and used a child,” meeting the minimum threshold of a single confirmed case that the State Department had previously used as the legal basis for putting a country on the list.
The Afghan defence and interior ministries both denied there were any child soldiers in Afghan national security forces, an assertion that contradicts the State Department’s reports and human rights activists.


CAIRO (Reuters) - Lebanon’s Saad al-Hariri, who resigned as prime minister on Nov. 4, met Egypt’s President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi for talks in a brief Cairo stopover before a planned return to Lebanon, Egypt state media said on Tuesday.
Hariri had been in Paris since Saturday when he met French President Emmanuel Macron. He has said he will return to Lebanon by Wednesday for the country’s Independence Day celebrations, where he said he will clarify his position.
His surprise resignation announced from Riyadh triggered a political crisis in Lebanon’s power-sharing government and drew his country deeper into a regional power struggle between Sunni kingdom Saudi Arabia and Shi‘ite Islamist Iran.
A Saudi ally, Hariri said he quit over interference in Lebanon by Iran and its Lebanese ally Hezbollah, a Shi‘ite group, which is part the government. But President Michel Aoun and others say Hariri may have been coerced into resigning.
Sisi, a former military commander who presents himself as a bulwark against Islamist militancy, has stressed his backing for Saudi Arabia and Gulf Arab allies who have helped with aid since he ousted a government led by the Muslim Brotherhood in 2013.
But he has also said Egypt is not considering measures against Hezbollah despite Saudi demands for sanctions against the Lebanese group. He has received calls from Macron and from U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson over the crisis.
Hariri arrived at Cairo International Airport, where he was received by Egypt’s health minister, the Lebanese ambassador to Cairo and Egypt’s ambassador to Beirut, his press office said.
He went immediately to the presidential palace, it said. A message on Hariri’s Twitter account said the meeting would be followed by a dinner in his honour.
“Saad Hariri arrived in Cairo on Tuesday evening from Paris to meet President Sisi, and he is scheduled to return to Lebanon on Wednesday,” MENA state news agency said.
Egypt’s presidency said Aoun, a Hezbollah ally, also spoke with Sisi to discuss developments. Sisi and Aoun “underscored the importance of preserving Lebanon’s stability as well as upholding Lebanon’s national interest.”


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia’s meteorological service said on Tuesday it had measured pollution of a radioactive isotope at nearly 1,000 times normal levels in the Ural mountains, the first official Russian data supporting reports that a nuclear incident had taken place.
The data appears to back up a report by the French nuclear safety institute IRSN, which said on Nov. 9 a cloud of radioactive pollution over Europe had indicated some kind of leak had taken place at a nuclear facility either in Russia or Kazakhstan in the last week of September.
Neither Russia nor Kazakhstan has acknowledged any accident.
Russian state weather service Roshydromet said in a statement it had found “extremely high pollution” of ruthenium 106 in samples from two meteorological stations in the southern Urals region in late September and early October.
At the Agrayash weather station the levels were 986 times those of the previous month, while at the Novogorny station they were 440 times higher. The weather service did not rule out that the radioactive isotope could be absorbed into the atmosphere and reach Europe.
Western scientists said the ruthenium 106 levels disclosed did not by themselves indicate any major health threat, although it was still unclear what had happened.
“Ruthenium is very rare and hence its presence may suggest that an event of some nature has occurred. That being said, the natural abundance is so low that even a factor of 900 up on natural levels is still very low,” said Malcolm Sperrin, director of the Department of Medical Physics and Clinical Engineering at Oxford University Hospitals in England.
Professor Paddy Regan at the University of Surrey said the fact that the ruthenium was found in isolation, rather than with other radioactive materials “suggests a leak from a fuel/reprocessing plant or somewhere they are separating the ruthenium” rather than a bigger nuclear accident.
“If it was a reactor leak or nuclear explosion, other radioisotopes would also be present in the ‘plume’ and from the reports, they are not,” Regan said.
He said any health effect would be negligible.
“The measurement of its presence in the amounts reported suggest that any biological effects of exposure to this source are essentially similar to that of the normal, naturally occurring radiation background,” he told Reuters.
Russia’s Consumer Rights Protection service said in a statement that the ruthenium 106 posed no threat to public health.
Andrey Vazhenin, the main oncology specialist of the Chelyabinsk region where the two weather stations are located,  was quoted by Interfax news agency as saying people had nothing no worry about. Those concerned should instead “watch football and drink beer”.
Still, some researchers called for a more complete investigation. Bruno Chareyron, head of independent French nuclear laboratory CRIIRAD, called on the Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency to order an inspection and impose protective measures.
“It is deplorable that 31 years after Chernobyl we again remain completely in the dark about what has happened,” Chareyron said.
The Agrayash weather station is located about 30 km (20 miles) from Mayak, a huge plant that reprocesses nuclear fuel and produces radioactive material for industrial and research purposes, owned by Russian state nuclear company Rosatom. Mayak accounts for half of Russian exports of radioactive isotopes.
In a statement, Mayak denied that its plant was the source of increased level of ruthenium 106. Rosatom said there were no accidents at any of its facilities which could increase the level of ruthenium 106 in the atmosphere.
Greenpeace said in a statement on Tuesday that it would ask Russia’s prosecutors’ office to investigate whether there had been an accident in the area.
“It also demands a check into whether the atmospheric radionuclide monitoring system is sufficiently prepared for possible accidents, and whether public health around a possible release of Ruthenium 106 was sufficiently protected,” the environmental pressure group said in a statement.
The Institute of Nuclear Physics in Kazakhstan, which neighbors the southern Urals, has said there were no accidents at its scientific research reactor and no ruthenium 106 at its two disused testing areas in western Kazakhstan.


BEIRUT (Reuters) - Saad al-Hariri landed in Beirut on Tuesday, his media office said, returning home for the first time since he resigned as Lebanon’s prime minister in a broadcast from Saudi Arabia and plunged his country into political crisis,
Hariri’s sudden resignation on Nov. 4 thrust Lebanon to the forefront of a regional power struggle between the Sunni monarchy of Saudi Arabia and Shi‘ite Islamist Iran, whose powerful ally Hezbollah is part of the Lebanese government.


CAIRO (Reuters) - Saad al-Hariri, who resigned as Lebanese prime minister on Nov. 4, left Cairo for Lebanon on Tuesday after a brief meeting with Egypt’s President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, Egyptian airport sources said on Tuesday.
Hariri announced his resignation during a visit to Saudi Arabia but has yet to return home. He has said he will clarify his position once he returns to Lebanon.
His surprise resignation has triggered a political crisis in Lebanon, which finds itself in the midst of a bitter regional rivalry between Saudi Arabia and Iran.


BEIRUT (Reuters) - Lebanon’s Saad al-Hariri arrived in Cyprus for a meeting with its president on Tuesday, Hariri said on his Twitter feed, ahead of his expected return to Beirut to take part in independence day celebrations on Wednesday.
Hariri is expected to return to Lebanon in the coming hours, his first trip home since his sudden resignation as prime minister on Nov. 4 plunged the country into political crisis.
“It was a 45-minute meeting which was requested earlier today through diplomatic channels,” Cypriot government spokesman Nikos Christodoulides told Reuters of the meeting between Hariri and Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades.
“We, and he, desire to see stability in Lebanon. He is leaving as we speak,” he added.


MOSCOW/KIEV (Reuters) - Armed men in masks blocked off the centre of Ukraine’s rebel-controlled city of Luhansk on Tuesday in what the rebel leader said was a revolt by supporters of a sacked regional police chief.
In fighting that broke out in 2014, Russian-backed rebels threw off rule by a new pro-Western leadership in Kiev and set up two self-proclaimed separatist statelets in eastern Ukraine, one centred on Luhansk and another around the city of Donetsk.
Those separatist regions are aided by Moscow but not recognised by any state, and they have been dogged by outbreaks of internal tensions that have on occasion turned violent.
The Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe, which monitors the implementation of a much-violated ceasefire agreement with Ukraine, said on Tuesday it had observed military-style vehicles and armed men in central Luhansk.
The tension in Luhansk did not appear to have any direct connection to the conflict between the rebels and Ukraine’s government, but President Petro Poroshenko called a meeting of his security and defence council late on Tuesday.
“The Ukrainian armed forces are ready for all developments to ensure the safety of civilians,” Poroshenko said in a statement.
Residents of Luhansk, capital of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People’s Republic (LNR), saw unidentified armed men blocking access to downtown streets on Tuesday morning, according to local media and a resident of the city.
The OSCE’s monitoring mission posted photos on Twitter that showed lines of heavy military trucks and armoured personnel carriers in central Luhansk.
The LNR’s rebel leader, Igor Plotnitsky, blamed disgruntled supporters of Igor Kornet, his chief of police whom he said he had fired on Monday.
“The attempts by certain elements in the interior ministry in this way to challenge the decision .... (to remove Kornet) have gone beyond the bounds of what is acceptable,” Plotnitsky said in a statement on his administration’s web site.
“I can say with confidence that the attempts by certain persons to stay in power by destabilising the situation ... are futile, and in the very near future will be neutralised.”
But Kornet said he was still in his job, and demanded that senior figures in the region’s rebel leadership be prosecuted.
“I want to dispel rumours that I’ve been removed,” he said in a video message, clad in field camouflage. “We have the situation completely under control.”
He said that he had uncovered evidence that several senior LNR officials, acting in collusion with Kiev, were “involved in criminal activity to the detriment of the interests of the republic and the people of Luhansk”.
“Last night I provided all the documents available to the ...Igor Plotnitsky, who decided to launch criminal cases and arrest those involved,” Kornet said.
In his statement the Luhansk rebel leader contradicted this, saying there were no grounds to arrest the officials identified by Kornet.
The conflict in the country’s east between Ukrainian government forces and pro-Russian separatists has killed over 10,000 people. Russia denies accusations from Ukraine and NATO that it supports the rebels with troops and weapons.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin and U.S. President Donald Trump discussed the civil war in Syria on Tuesday, with Putin stressing the importance of finding a political solution after meeting with Syria’s president, according to the Kremlin.
Putin on Tuesday also held phone calls with a number of Middle East leaders, among them as Saudi King Salman, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi.
He briefed them on a visit to Russia by Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and about Moscow-backed peace efforts, such as planned Russian-Iranian-Turkey summit and a peace congress on Syria.
The half-hour conversation with Netanyahu dealt with Iran’s attempts to gain a foothold in Syria and Israel’s opposition to such moves, according to a source in Netanyahu’s office. The Israeli leader stressed his country’s security concerns, the source said.
On Wednesday, Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani - whose countries back opposing sides in the Syria conflict - will travel to Russia for a meeting with Putin aimed at advancing the Syrian peace process.
Following the conversation between Putin and Trump, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov discussed Syria and Ukraine in a phone call with U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.
Trump and Putin spoke by telephone for about an hour, covering topics including Syria, Ukraine, Iran, North Korea and Afghanistan, a White House official said earlier.
Their conversation came after Putin met Assad for three hours of talks on Monday, in preparation for a push by Moscow to end Syria’s conflict now that Islamic State has been driven out of its self-styled caliphate in Iraq and Syria.
According to Kremlin, Putin told Trump that the “Syrian leader confirmed adherence to the political process, to run a constitutional reform and president and parliament elections”.
“The message was sent of the necessity to keep the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Syria and to reach a political settlement based on principals to be worked out in a full-scale negotiation process in Syria,” the Kremlin said.
Putin stressed the importance to Trump of what he called “coordinating of efforts between the special services of both countries”.
The two leaders also discussed North Korea, “stressing the expediency of finding the ways of solution by the diplomatic means”.


WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump spoke on Tuesday with Russian President Vladimir Putin and the two leaders stressed the importance of the U.N.-led peace process in resolving the Syrian civil war, the White House said in a statement.
In the more than hour-long phone call, Trump and Putin also agreed to explore ways to cooperate in the fight against militant groups such as Islamic State, the statement said. In addition, the two leaders discussed how to achieve peace in Ukraine and the need to keep pressure on North Korea to end its nuclear programme, it said.

