
Since their heyday 40 years ago, the Guardian Angels have become a figment of New Yorkers’ collective memory. The volunteer vigilante squad, led by Curtis Sliwa, was a mainstay in the city in the late 1970s and ’80s—a period when the police department coined the moniker “Fear City” for the five boroughs and warned tourists not to go out after sunset.
The charismatic and controversial Sliwa trained his red-capped followers—mostly young people of color from troubled neighborhoods—to patrol the streets and subways. At the time, crime was high: The rates of murder, theft, and assault all roughly doubled between 1965 and 1975. And by the mid-1970s, the police force was thinned out because of a fiscal crisis facing the city. The troupe’s stated aim was to protect citizens and deter wrongdoing, and they’d physically fight individuals they deemed a threat.
But the Guardian Angels, and Sliwa himself, were not without critics, who said the members were inadequately trained, ineffective, and behaved no better than local gangs did. The most prominent critic was former Mayor Ed Koch, who accused Sliwa of being more interested in fame than stopping criminals. That accusation was partially corroborated in 1992 when Sliwa, whose group by then had expanded internationally, admitted to faking multiple crimes for publicity—a decision he’s since said he regrets.
New York City is a wholly different town today: Crime rates are at historic lows and a crisis of gentrification has largely replaced that of urban blight. But to Sliwa, the Guardian Angels are still relevant, even if their ranks in New York are a shadow of what they once were. Last year, he found a reason to call his followers back to service: a series of subway slashings that then-NYPD Commissioner William Bratton called an “aberration.” “There’s an aggressiveness that’s taking place in the subways that hasn’t taken place for quite some time,” Sliwa told Time. “My sense over the years is that we’re beginning to slip back.”
In hyping those events, Sliwa seems to be aiming for a Guardian Angels resurgence. His current focus is the subway system, which he claims is a dangerous place for women specifically. I spoke with Sliwa recently about his motivations; his legacy; and a new documentary, Vigilante, that chronicles his career, mostly through his own perspective. The conversation that follows, held over two phone calls, has been edited and condensed for clarity.
Maura Ewing: First, the red beret: You are wearing it in every scene. Is that your everyday attire?
Curtis Sliwa: It’s like an appendage to my head. People think that I sleep with it.
Ewing: Do you?
Sliwa: Sometimes I do. I actually pull it over my head and it blocks out the light and I catch a few zzz’s. You can do everything with that red beret.
Ewing: What’s the current status of the Guardian Angels? Are you patrolling?
Sliwa: We’re in 13 countries, 130 cities. We have an international membership of about 5,000. The main focus is always going to be the patrol. We also have ancillary things that we do now—for instance, we have Junior Guardian Angels. These are young girls, young boys, who are six to 15 years old. They do not patrol—we teach them martial arts. This way they can protect themselves, it teaches them discipline, and it gives them self-esteem. They also do community service.
Most recently I’ve spent a lot of time on two new groups. One is called the Perv Busters. It’s mostly women who patrol. The program has had just a year in existence in New York City; now we’re going to try to roll it out in some of our other chapters. They go after the [men] exposing themselves on the subways—very similar to what we’ve seen a lot of well-to-do guys be accused of and acknowledge, like the comedian Louis C.K. [These men] collect in mass transit because it’s easy for them to rub up against women and violate women, particularly during rush hour.
Often, we are provided pictures of them that victims took with their cellphones. We’ll do informational outreach in which we print up thousands of flyers and spread them throughout the system and then immediately begin pursuing them—something the local authorities just don’t do. It’s almost like out of sight, out of mind.
Ewing: With Perv Busters, are you trying to catch people in the act?
Sliwa: We have, but it’s not the main focus. The predators underground in the subways are creatures of habit. They will ride the same trains at the same times, normally at peak hours, because if a woman objects to him [touching] her or accosting her, he can claim, “Oh, it’s so crowded here, I’m sorry.” We get their photographs, and we begin to hunt them. We have had some arrested, but it’s mostly an informational campaign.
Ewing: Do you ever worry that you’re going after an innocent person?
Sliwa: Of course. The checks and balances are that you don’t act like Donald Trump and retweet something. You do due-diligence forensic research [to see] if you can come up with a name, an identity, other people who will likewise indicate that this person has been molesting women in the area. We’ve been doing this for over a year-and-a-half. We’ve probably leafletted 185 [men]. None of it has come back to haunt us because we didn’t dot the i’s and cross the t’s.
Ewing: How do you do your research?
Sliwa: We try to go online, see if there are other women who likewise have seen this guy, or if he fits a description. A lot of times women will take pictures of these guys—you make sure it’s not Photoshopped. If enough women have come forward and have IDed the guy and he seems to have a certain pattern, then we go with it without police verification.
Ewing: What is enough?
Sliwa: Enough is three or more people who have IDed the guy who aren’t friends with each other and not related—independent sources.
Ewing: Is Perv Busters legal?
Sliwa: It’s legal. But if you ID the wrong person, you yourself can be arrested because, remember, we have no special powers or privileges.
Ewing: Your group started patrolling the subways again in New York City about a year ago—is that right?
Sliwa: No, we have patrolled regularly since 1979. We’ve had patrols every day and every night since we began. But nowhere near to the effect that we had between 1979 and 1993, which is the period that the documentary covers.
Ewing: I read in a Time story that you came back last year because of a series of slashings on the subway.
Sliwa: That’s true. We doubled down, we increased our recruitment, and we began to focus on those neighborhoods that were the feeding system for the slashings. They weren’t taking place all over the subway system, but were in certain key junction areas, particularly up to Harlem, Washington Heights, Inwood, the South Bronx, and parts of Brooklyn. The NYPD didn’t seem to have an answer to it at the time, so we helped to fill the void. [The NYPD did not reply to a request for comment on this story, and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority declined to comment on Sliwa’s campaign in the subways.]
People will get in contact with us if they haven’t gotten relief from first going to the police. We’re always the last choice that a person has when they’re frustrated because they’ve tried all other measures, and they figure they’ve got nothing to lose. The Perv Busters is a classic example: Every time we’re on the subway, we have women coming up, showing us pictures on their cellphones. We always ask, “Did you take it to the police?” They say, “Yeah.” “What happened?” “Nothing.”
Obviously, we were more needed in the ’70s when they were laying off cops because the city was in fiscal distress. [In 1974] the city announced that at night there would be no more uniformed police patrolling [in the subway] during the off-peak hours, 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. That was a license to steal for thugs. You don’t have that situation now. The police are fully staffed and they generally do a pretty good job. But there are still those pockets out there, situations that they chose not to get involved in. Or they’ve tried some methods and are just not successful. Or they don’t seem to understand the problem.  
Ewing: It seems like you have an interest in convincing the public that crime is coming back. Is that an element of your approach?
Sliwa: No, I wouldn’t say it is.
Ewing: But in New York, your group reemerged after the slashings. I read that you were convinced the city’s slipping back. Is it part of your approach to tell people the city is getting more dangerous?
Sliwa: Definitely in the subways, the number of [reported] sexual assaults and sexual harassments has gone up each of the past two years by 20 percent. It’s a major problem in the subway system, along with crime in general in the subway, whereas you can’t really make the same case aboveground. But, still, it’s a much better system than what we were introduced into when anarchy reigned between 1979 and 1992 in the subways.
Ewing: The new documentary alleges that you contributed to the decline of crime in the ’90s. How?
Sliwa: There were three ways that we contributed: First, we destroyed the stereotype that existed in our city that young black and Latino men or women coming out of the hood had a predisposition to join gangs and be thugs or thugettes. That was a very prevalent stereotype. But here emerges the Guardian Angels, predominately black or Hispanic young people who were a total contrast to the gangs.
Secondly, we had a fight-back mentality. The acronym very common then was MYOB: Mind your own business. You had a lot of lawyers out there threatening to sue people, like us, who got physically involved. We spit in their eye and defied that.
The last thing was that we proved that one woman or one man could make a difference in a neighborhood. All it took was one person to start organizing; he or she could make a difference. You just had to do the heavy lifting and the hard work and know that change would come in slow increments.
Ewing: Some counter theories to why crime declined are that there was economic growth in the ’90s and more people were incarcerated—what do you think about that?
Sliwa: Birthrate, that’s another factor. I personally believe a lot of it had to do with an enormous drop in the youth population. All of those factors played in, too.
Ewing: Initially, how did you get community members to trust the Guardian Angels?
Sliwa: They were coming from poor and impoverished neighborhoods; they were fed up; they wanted to fight back but needed a vehicle and mechanism to do that. It’s very hard to do that on your own.


The tax overhaul the Senate approved on Saturday rests on a shaky stack of promises Republicans will be hard-pressed to keep.
Foremost are the two central assurances GOP senators made to justify passage of the bill, which may be irreconcilable with each other. First, Republicans have insisted that the measure’s $1.4 trillion cost would disappear under a bustle of economic activity—more jobs, higher wages, and buckets full of new tax revenue flowing into the government.
“The plan will pay for itself with growth,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin declared this spring, a claim that he and other administration officials and Republicans repeated throughout the summer and fall. They made this assertion despite all available evidence to the contrary—the past experiences of the federal tax cuts enacted under George W. Bush and the more recent failure of tax cuts in Kansas; independent analyses by the Tax Foundation, the Tax Policy Center, and other outside arbiters; and, most flagrantly, by Congress’s own in-house analysts at the Joint Committee on Taxation, who found that the Senate bill would provide a tepid boost to economic growth and would recoup barely one-third of its cost over 10 years.
Senate Republicans Pass Their Tax Cuts
Republicans are also promising that millions of families will never see the future tax increases that they wrote into the bill to make it work under the Senate’s budget rules. The expiration in six years of most of the benefits for individuals is a fuse that will never be lit, the GOP insists, under the presumption that lawmakers would never abide a tax increase that large. Yet if that fiscal bomb never goes off, the bill’s true cost would soar even higher still, making the party’s first promise, that the bill would pay for itself, even more unattainable.
In addition to the major pledges they made to the public, GOP leaders made more discreet, shorter-term promises to round up the final votes for the bill, on issues far afield from tax policy. Those will be equally tough to keep, and a failure to follow through could jeopardize the tax legislation’s final enactment after negotiations in a conference committee of the Senate and House.
To win over Senator Susan Collins of Maine, top Republicans committed to passing a pair of bipartisan health-care bills aimed at bolstering the Affordable Care Act’s faltering individual-insurance market. Collins demanded those bills to mitigate the impact of repealing the law’s individual mandate, which she supported as part of the tax plan despite voting against several earlier GOP proposals to do so. One bill would restore the payments to insurers that President Trump canceled earlier this fall, while another written by Collins and Democratic Senator Bill Nelson of Florida would fund reinsurance programs to offset the cost of covering the most expensive patients.
Collins had said she wants to see those measures signed into law before enactment of the tax bill, which would give her leverage in a final vote on the conference report. But that presumes passage by the House, where conservatives are warning their leadership against any legislation that would prop up Obamacare. In a statement announcing her support for the tax bill, Collins said only that Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had promised his support for passing those bills by the end of the year—leaving open the possibility that her vote for the tax overhaul requires a leap of faith on health care. If the health bills stall, would she reverse her vote on tax cuts?
Similarly, Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona said he secured a commitment from both the Senate leadership and the Trump administration on immigration in exchange for his vote. They agreed, he said in a statement, “to work with me on a growth-oriented legislative solution to enact fair and permanent protections for DACA recipients.” In fairness to Flake, he’s not quite saying Republicans promised to pass such a bill—only to help him try. But it’s still a curious commitment on which to base his vote considering that Trump has been escalating his rhetoric against illegal immigrants of late and accusing Democrats allied with Flake on the issue of wanting undocumented immigrants “flooding into the country.” Moreover, with Democrats and even some Republicans insisting that a DACA fix be attached to a year-end spending bill, the president is reportedly girding for a government shutdown to rally his base.
Perhaps Collins and Flake realize that the assurances they won were etched in something less than permanent ink, just as Republicans more broadly understand that their claims about the tax bill’s potential for economic growth are optimistic guesses at best. Both senators cited other, more concrete provisions that helped sway their vote, and both all along indicated their desire to support a key pillar of the GOP agenda. But in their haste to pass their tax bill through the Senate, Republican leaders have put themselves on the hook with lawmakers and voters alike, and for commitments that could haunt them in the weeks and years to come.


Think of waiting in a long, slow-moving line, like the security lines at an airport. What’s your emotional reaction when you see someone cutting ahead of you, or shifting into a faster-moving line that you are not allowed to join? What if you are pulled aside for extra questioning, for no apparent reason?
Lines can bring fairness and order to what might otherwise be a free-for-all. There’s even a science, called queuing theory, that examines the optimal ways to make lines move equitably and efficiently. But they don’t always work that way; sometimes, they can operate to institutionalize unfairness and inequality. That’s why Arlie Russell Hochschild uses lines as a metaphor for the challenges facing contemporary American society in her book Strangers in Their Own Land: Anger and Mourning on the American Right.
Hochschild argues that, for many years, America’s economic and social class structure resembled an orderly queue. The promise was that if you worked hard and honorably, you would make progress toward the American Dream. This meant a settled life, grounded in a job that paid wages sufficient to own a nice home, raise a family, spend time with friends and family, find community in neighborhood and church, and live a life of dignity. For decades, America’s economy allowed people with a high school education and few specialized skills to take their place in a line that provided a steady pace of upward mobility.
This dynamic has changed, in Hochschild’s account. Access to the line that delivers the American Dream in exchange for hard work is now both limited and unevenly granted. Worse yet, white working-class citizens perceive others—mainly minorities and immigrants—to be unfairly cutting ahead of them in line. And members of the white working class believe the government, rather than enforcing the fair process they had come to expect, is increasingly aiding and abetting these line-cutters. Their strident opposition to welfare programs—which, in their view, support those who don’t work—and policies like the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)—which, to them, encourage illegal immigration—are akin to the loud protests we hear when people cut ahead of us in a line.
Adding further insult to injury, when they protest about these line-cutters, they are subjected to moral scolding—called bigots, racists, and rednecks. Having lost confidence that the government will help them, they place faith in their church, friends, and family, which makes them appear even more parochial and rigid. “It has to be said: The line-cutters irritate you,” Hochschild writes. “They are violating rules of fairness. You resent them, and you feel it’s right that you do. So do your friends.”
America's 'Racial Generation Gap' Is Starting to Shrink
As I read Hochschild’s analysis, my thoughts turned to a different sort of resentment the white working class is feeling. Even as it stews over people cutting into its ever slower-moving line, it also envies another faster-moving queue: the special one reserved for people with means—the ones who travel business or first class. The affluent people in this line believe they have earned their preferred status through a meritocratic process that has assessed and rewarded their ambition and enterprise. This group becomes accustomed to its special privileges and comes to expect them everywhere, from legacy admissions to college for their children to special seating at sports events to VIP treatment at theme parks. It begins to believe that there should be a special line for innovators and pioneers who have sacrificed time with friends and family to achieve their personal best—those who want to reach for the top, to be number one. Yet even preferred status is not enough; those on any fast track can always see a still-faster track. If the first-class line is short, flying on a private aircraft from a terminal with no security lines is even faster.
People on the fast tracks don’t always empathize with the complaints of those in the working-class line. They see this group as resistant to change and unwilling to adapt to the requirements of the new economy, which demands higher education, technical skills, and geographic mobility. They see them as clinging to outdated traditions and becoming more and more out of touch with changing realities. Recall the uproar over candidate Obama’s 2008 remark about how economically-disadvantaged, small-town Americans “cling to guns or religion.” The folks in the working-class line, meanwhile, believe those in the privileged lines have rigged the system in their favor. While they lose jobs and their place in line, the privileged get bailouts and golden parachutes, protected even from their own failures.  
Ironically, those in the working-class line feel most resentful towards those who have no place in line at all. These are the immigrants who get into the country, sometimes through abusive middlemen, and are then preyed upon by employers who barely pay them minimum wages and rarely give them benefits. These people are afraid to even get in line for fear they may be deported. They wait for the government to provide them amnesty, and with it a legitimate opportunity to stand in line.
Beyond immigrants, there are other groups whose principal hope is to simply get into the working-class line. These include minority groups that live in impoverished neighborhoods, send their children to schools known as failure factories, rely on food stamps, and too often end up in police line-ups. They feel they have no chance without external help—from the government or local nonprofits. People from these groups who can find their way into the working-class line are resented as line-cutters who found their place through affirmative action or some other government policy. And for each who succeeds, there are 10 others who don’t.
Class lines are nothing new, of course, but in many parts of American life, they have become far more distinct and visible in recent years. Not long ago, even though people grew up on different sides of the tracks and in different parts of town, they met at the grocery store, the bank, and the post office. This gave them an opportunity to develop at least a modicum of mutual understanding. Now there are fewer and fewer opportunities for people in different lines to ever encounter each other in person. They go to different schools, shop at different stores, and rarely interact. Yet they are hyper-aware of each other due in part to the ubiquity of social media and television. You can gawk at the lives of the privileged on Instagram, tap into the resentment of the white working class on Brietbart, and see the plight of the disenfranchised on Vice. This ready visibility has unleashed a range of emotions, including resentment, entitlement, envy, and despair—and it’s tearing America apart.
These emotions have a pernicious and corrosive effect on American ideals. What makes America’s culture special is that it celebrates positive emotions—ambition, hope, doggedness—that have been sustained by a shared belief in the promise of social mobility, the opportunities people have for moving ahead in line or from one line to another. Over the last few years, research has pointed to the reduction of social mobility in America; increasingly, the line into which you are born seems to determine your life prospects. The key to reducing the divisiveness in America lies in restoring shared confidence that everyone who is willing to work toward upward mobility can still credibly aspire to it.
To restore that confidence, Americans need to understand and empathize with those who are in lines different from their own. For me, that responsibility starts close to home. Many regard Harvard Business School, where I serve as dean, as offering its students an all-but-guaranteed path into the lines for the privileged. That places a particular burden on us to ensure our students understand their responsibility to create value before they claim value, and their need to foster economic opportunities and a better life not just for themselves, but for others.
We also try to make it easier to gain access to the line. Last year, for example, we matriculated almost a hundred students who were first in their family to go to college, and we actively recruit students from a range of employers, including social enterprises and the military. Once they’re here, we expose students to cases that describe the challenges of the working class and the impoverished. Through intensive, small-group, field immersion courses, our students pursue projects whose primary aim is to help them develop genuine empathy for and an understanding of those whose lives are different than their own. In our narcissistic age, this virtue doesn’t always come naturally, but we use various means to encourage them to understand that true leaders are not those who claim that title for themselves, but who are looked to for leadership by others.
These efforts are imperfect, but Hochschild’s book makes clear how necessary they are—and how much more we all have to do to better understand those who may not be in the same line as us. Americans must search for ways to restore a sense of fairness, reduce the time we spend gawking at those more fortunate than us or resenting those who are less fortunate—and prevent the divisions between these lines from hardening any further.


Little distinguishes democracy in America more sharply from Europe than the primacy—and permissiveness—of our commitment to free speech. Yet ongoing controversies at American universities suggest that free speech is becoming a partisan issue. While conservative students defend the importance of inviting controversial speakers to campus and giving offense, many self-identified liberals are engaged in increasingly disruptive, even violent, efforts to shut them down. Free speech for some, they argue, serves only to silence and exclude others. Denying hateful or historically “privileged” voices a platform is thus necessary to make equality effective, so that the marginalized and vulnerable can finally speak up—and be heard.
The reason that appeals to the First Amendment cannot decide these campus controversies is because there is a more fundamental conflict between two, very different concepts of free speech at stake. The conflict between what the ancient Greeks called isegoria, on the one hand, and parrhesia, on the other, is as old as democracy itself. Today, both terms are often translated as “freedom of speech,” but their meanings were and are importantly distinct. In ancient Athens, isegoria described the equal right of citizens to participate in public debate in the democratic assembly; parrhesia, the license to say what one pleased, how and when one pleased, and to whom.
America's Many Divides Over Free Speech
When it comes to private universities, businesses, or social media, the would-be censors are our fellow-citizens, not the state. Private entities like Facebook or Twitter, not to mention Yale or Middlebury, have broad rights to regulate and exclude the speech of their members. Likewise, online mobs are made up of outraged individuals exercising their own right to speak freely. To invoke the First Amendment in such cases is not a knock-down argument, it’s a non sequitur.
John Stuart Mill argued that the chief threat to free speech in democracies was not the state, but the “social tyranny” of one’s fellow citizens. And yet today, the civil libertarians who style themselves as Mill’s inheritors have for the most part failed to refute, or even address, the arguments about free speech and equality that their opponents are making.
The two ancient concepts of free speech came to shape our modern liberal democratic notions in fascinating and forgotten ways. But more importantly, understanding that there is not one, but two concepts of freedom of speech, and that these are often in tension if not outright conflict, helps explain the frustrating shape of contemporary debates, both in the U.S. and in Europe—and why it so often feels as though we are talking past each other when it comes to the things that matter most.
***
Of the two ancient concepts of free speech, isegoria is the older. The term dates back to the fifth century BCE, although historians disagree as to when the democratic practice of permitting any citizen who wanted to address the assembly actually began. Despite the common translation “freedom of speech,” the Greek literally means something more like “equal speech in public.” The verb agoreuein, from which it derives, shares a root with the word agora or marketplace—that is, a public place where people, including philosophers like Socrates, would gather together and talk.
In the democracy of Athens, this idea of addressing an informal gathering in the agora carried over into the more formal setting of the ekklesia or political assembly. The herald would ask, “Who will address the assemblymen?” and then the volunteer would ascend the bema, or speaker’s platform. In theory, isegoria meant that any Athenian citizen in good standing had the right to participate in debate and try to persuade his fellow citizens. In practice, the number of participants was fairly small, limited to the practiced rhetoricians and elder statesmen seated near the front. (Disqualifying offenses included prostitution and taking bribes.)
Although Athens was not the only democracy in the ancient world, from the beginning the Athenian principle of isegoria was seen as something special. The historian Herodotus even described the form of government at Athens not as demokratia, but as isegoria itself. According to the fourth-century orator and patriot Demosthenes, the Athenian constitution was based on speeches (politeia en logois) and its citizens had chosen isegoria as a way of life. But for its critics, this was a bug, as well as a feature. One critic, the so-called ‘Old Oligarch,’ complained that even slaves and foreigners enjoyed isegoria at Athens, hence one could not beat them as one might elsewhere.
Critics like the Old Oligarch may have been exaggerating for comic effect, but they also had a point: as its etymology suggests, isegoria was fundamentally about equality, not freedom. As such, it would become the hallmark of Athenian democracy, which distinguished itself from the other Greek city-states not because it excluded slaves and women from citizenship (as did every society in the history of humankind until quite recently), but rather because it included the poor. Athens even took positive steps to render this equality of public speech effective by introducing pay for the poorest citizens to attend the assembly and to serve as jurors in the courts.
As a form of free speech then, isegoria was essentially political. Its competitor, parrhesia, was more expansive. Here again, the common English translation “freedom of speech” can be deceptive. The Greek means something like “all saying” and comes closer to the idea of speaking freely or “frankly.” Parrhesia thus implied openness, honesty, and the courage to tell the truth, even when it meant causing offense. The practitioner of parrhesia (or parrhesiastes) was, quite literally, a “say-it-all.”
Parrhesia could have a political aspect. Demosthenes and other orators stressed the duty of those exercising isegoria in the assembly to speak their minds. But the concept applied more often outside of the ekklesia in more and less informal settings. In the theater, parrhesiastic playwrights like Aristophanes offended all and sundry by skewering their fellow citizens, including Socrates, by name. But the paradigmatic parrhesiastes in the ancient world were the Philosophers, self-styled “lovers of wisdom” like Socrates himself who would confront their fellow citizens in the agora and tell them whatever hard truths they least liked to hear. Among these was Diogenes the Cynic, who famously lived in a barrel, masturbated in public, and told Alexander the Great to get out of his light—all, so he said, to reveal the truth to his fellow Greeks about the arbitrariness of their customs.
The danger intrinsic in parrhesia’s offensiveness to the powers-that-be—be they monarchs like Alexander or the democratic majority—fascinated Michel Foucault, who made it the subject of a series of lectures at Berkeley (home of the original campus Free Speech Movement) in the 1980s. Foucault noticed that the practice of parrhesia necessarily entailed an asymmetry of power, hence a “contract” between the audience (whether one or many), who pledged to tolerate any offense, and the speaker, who agreed to tell them the truth and risk the consequences.
If isegoria was fundamentally about equality, then, parrhesia was about liberty in the sense of license—not a right, but rather an unstable privilege enjoyed at the pleasure of the powerful. In Athenian democracy, that usually meant the majority of one’s fellow citizens, who were known to shout down or even drag speakers they disliked (including Plato’s brother, Glaucon) off the bema. This ancient version of “no-platforming” speakers who offended popular sensibilities could have deadly consequences—as the trial and death of Socrates, Plato’s friend and teacher, attests.
Noting the lack of success that Plato’s loved ones enjoyed with both isegoria and parrhesia during his lifetime may help explain why the father of Western philosophy didn’t set great store by either concept in his works. Plato no doubt would have noticed that, despite their differences, neither concept relied upon the most famous and distinctively Greek understanding of speech as logos—that is, reason or logical argument. Plato’s student, Aristotle, would identify logos as the capacity that made human beings essentially political animals in the first place. And yet neither isegoria nor parrhesia identified the reasoned speech and arguments of logos as uniquely deserving of equal liberty or license. Which seems to have been Plato’s point—how was it that a democratic city that prided itself on free speech, in all of its forms, put to death the one Athenian ruled by logos for speaking it?
***
Unsurprisingly perhaps, parrhesia survived the demise of Athenian democracy more easily than isegoria. As Greek democratic institutions were crushed by the Macedonian empire, then the Roman, parrhesia persisted as a rhetorical trope. A thousand years after the fall of Rome, Renaissance humanists would revive parrhesia as the distinctive virtue of the counselor speaking to a powerful prince in need of frank advice. While often couched in apologetics, this parrhesia retained its capacity to shock. The hard truths presented by Machiavelli and Hobbes to their would-be sovereigns would inspire generations of “libertine” thinkers to come.
Still, there was another adaptation of the parrhesiastic tradition of speaking truth to power available to early modern Europeans. The early Christians took a page from Diogenes’s book in spreading the “good news” of the Gospel throughout the Greco-Roman world—news that may not have sounded all that great to the Roman authorities. Many of the Christians who styled themselves as “Protestants” after the Reformation thought that a return to an authentically parrhesiastic and deliberately offensive form of evangelism was necessary to restore the Church to the purity of “primitive” Christianity. The early Quakers, for example, were known to interrupt Anglican services by shouting down the minister and to go naked in public “for a sign.”
Isegoria, too, had its early modern inheritors. But in the absence of democratic institutions like the Athenian ekklesia, it necessarily took a different form. The 1689 English Bill of Rights secured “the freedom of speech and debates in Parliament,” and so applied to members of Parliament only, and only when they were present in the chamber. For the many who lacked access to formal political participation, the idea of isegoria as an equal right of public speech belonging to all citizens would eventually migrate from the concrete public forum to the virtual public sphere.
For philosophers like Spinoza and Immanuel Kant, “free speech” meant primarily the intellectual freedom to participate in the public exchange of arguments. In 1784, five years before the French Revolution, Kant would insist that “the freedom to make public use of one’s reason” was the fundamental and equal right of any human being or citizen. Similarly, when Mill wrote On Liberty less than a century later, he did not defend the freedom of speech as such, but rather the individual “freedom of thought and discussion” in the collective pursuit of truth. While the equal liberty of isegoria remained essential for these thinkers, they shifted focus from actual speech—that is, the physical act of addressing others and participating in debate—to the mental exercise of reason and the exchange of ideas and arguments, very often in print. And so, over the course of two millennia, the Enlightenment finally united isegoria and logos in an idealized concept of free speech as freedom only for reasoned speech and rational deliberation that would have made Plato proud.
This logo-centric Enlightenment ideal remains central to the European understanding of free speech today. Efforts in Europe to criminalize hate speech owe an obvious debt to Kant, who described the freedom of (reasoned) speech in public as “the most harmless” of all. The same could never be said of ancient or early modern parrhesia, which was always threatening to speakers and listeners alike. Indeed, it was the obvious harm caused by their parrhesiastic evangelism to their neighbors’ religious sensibilities that led so many evangelical Protestants to flee prosecution (or persecution, as they saw it) in Europe for the greater liberty—or license—of the New World. American exceptionalism can thus be traced all the way back to the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries: while America got the evangelicals and libertines, Europe kept the philosophers.
***
Debates about free speech on American campuses today suggest that the rival concepts of isegoria and parrhesia are alive and well. When student protesters claim that they are silencing certain voices—via no-platforming, social pressure, or outright censorship—in the name of free speech itself, it may be tempting to dismiss them as insincere, or at best confused. As I witnessed at an event at Kenyon College in September, when confronted with such arguments the response from gray-bearded free-speech fundamentalists like myself is to continue to preach to the converted about the First Amendment, but with an undercurrent of solidaristic despair about “kids these days” and their failure to understand the fundamentals of liberal democracy.
No wonder the “kids” are unpersuaded. While trigger warnings, safe spaces, and no-platforming grab headlines, poll after poll suggests that a more subtle, shift in mores is afoot. To a generation convinced that hateful speech is itself a form of violence or “silencing,” pleading the First Amendment is to miss the point. Most of these students do not see themselves as standing against free speech at all. What they care about is the equal right to speech, and equal access to a public forum in which the historically marginalized and excluded can be heard and count equally with the privileged. This is a claim to isegoria, and once one recognizes it as such, much else becomes clear—including the contrasting appeal to parrhesia by their opponents, who sometimes seem determined to reduce “free speech” to a license to offend.
Recognizing the ancient ideas at work in these modern arguments puts those of us committed to America’s parrhesiastic tradition of speaking truth to power in a better position to defend it. It suggests that to defeat the modern proponents of isegoria—and remind the modern parrhesiastes what they are fighting for—one must go beyond the First Amendment to the other, orienting principle of American democracy behind it, namely equality. After all, the genius of the First Amendment lies in bringing isegoria and parrhesia together, by securing the equal right and liberty of citizens not simply to “exercise their reason” but to speak their minds. It does so because the alternative is to allow the powers-that-happen-to-be to grant that liberty as a license to some individuals while denying it to others.
In contexts where the Constitution does not apply, like a private university, this opposition to arbitrariness is a matter of culture, not law, but it is no less pressing and important for that. As the evangelicals, protesters, and provocateurs who founded America’s parrhesiastic tradition knew well: When the rights of all become the privilege of a few, neither liberty nor equality can last.


After a day of twisting arms and striking side deals, Senate Republicans muscled through an overhaul of the tax code that puts the party on the brink of its first major legislative victory of the Trump administration.
The $1.47 trillion bill cleared the Senate shortly before 2 a.m. Eastern on a 51-49 vote, as Republicans overcame the unified opposition of Democrats who argued it was a budget-busting giveaway to big business and the GOP’s political patrons. Just one Republican, Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, voted against the measure on the grounds that it would add too much to the deficit.
The bill’s central provisions would reduce the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent, double the standard deduction, and enhance the child tax credit for individuals. But while it would modestly reduce personal income-tax rates, millions of middle-class families could face tax increases in later years if Congress does not act again to extend the bill’s provisions. And according to independent analyses, some people in larger, high-tax states like New York, California, New Jersey, and Illinois could see an immediate tax hike: Their cuts would be wiped out by the elimination of a provision allowing them to deduct their state-and-local income taxes off their federal bill.
Yet GOP senators made compromises everywhere—except with Democrats. In the end, self-described deficit hawks voted for legislation that, according to the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation, would increase the nation’s budget gap by $1 trillion over a decade even after factoring in economic growth. Supply-siders allowed tax cuts for individuals to expire after six years while making them permanent for corporations. And Republicans who blanched at gutting Obamacare earlier this year agreed to eliminate the law’s individual mandate as part of the tax bill.
Passage of the proposal sets up negotiations with the House on a final bill for President Trump to sign that would represent the most far-reaching change to U.S. tax policy in more than 30 years, as well as the most significant one-party legislation to pass since the Affordable Care Act in 2010. Republicans hope to enact their tax package by Christmas.
Aside from Corker’s defection, Saturday’s vote was a rare display of unity from a Senate Republican conference that could not agree on a repeal of Obamacare earlier this year. And it showed how much more comfortable Republicans are with cutting taxes than with just about any other legislative issue, much less health care. Supporters of the bill said it would deliver tax relief, on average, to families at every income level while putting U.S. businesses on a more competitive footing with their global competitors.
A Last-Minute Threat to the Republican Tax Bill
Democrats countered it would do nothing of the sort.
“With the passage of this tax bill, today will be the first day of a new Republican party – one that raises taxes on the middle class, abandoning its principles for its political paymasters,” Senator Charles Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said in the lead-up to the vote.
In the end, Republicans decided to essentially ignore a late report from the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation finding that their bill would add $1 trillion to the debt over 10 years because it wouldn’t translate to the kind of economic growth party leaders had promised. The nonpartisan analysis came out on Thursday at the same time that GOP deficit hawks, led by Corker and Jeff Flake of Arizona, were learning that their proposal for a provision triggering future tax increases would not comply with Senate budget rules.
But rather than accommodate the deficit hawks by scaling back the tax cuts, party leaders won the final critical votes elsewhere. They deepened tax breaks for so-called “pass-through” businesses to win over Senators Ron Johnson of Wisconsin and Steve Daines of Montana. Bowing to Senator Susan Collins of Maine, they restored a state-and-local property-tax deduction up to $10,000. And they made Flake a completely unrelated commitment to work on a fix for undocumented immigrants who are at risk of deportation starting in March, when Trump ends former President Barack Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.
The only holdout who apparently won nothing was Corker, the retiring Tennesseean who had vowed he would not support a tax bill that added “one penny” to the deficit. Republican leaders apparently decided they didn’t need his vote, and late Friday afternoon, he confirmed they wouldn’t get it. “I am disappointed. I wanted to get to yes,” Corker said. “But at the end of the day, I am not able to cast aside my fiscal concerns and vote for legislation that I believe, based on the information I currently have, could deepen the debt for future generations.”
Just like their counterparts in the House, Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee spent months writing the chamber’s original draft. But it got passed in a madcap rush, as party leaders rewrote the bill in significant ways to win the final, crucial votes. Well into the afternoon, Republicans were literally still writing the bill. Democrats took to the Senate floor to deride the GOP’s hurry to pass the legislation that Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon said they were drafting “on the fly.” Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri tweeted that her office received a list of changes first from lobbyists on K Street. And when the 479-page text of the revised proposal finally came out early in the evening, Democrats were appalled to find that sections of the bill were written by hand, with some provisions crossed out with lines across a page. “This makes no sense,” Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado said on the Senate floor.
One of the few significant amendments that received a vote came from Republican Senators Marco Rubio of Florida and Mike Lee of Utah, who had been pushing to expand the child tax credit even more than Republicans already plan to do. The Senate proposal would double it to $2,000 per kid, but Rubio and Lee wanted to make it fully refundable so that lower-income families who pay less in taxes can take advantage. To offset the cost, they would cut the corporate rate to 21 percent instead of 20 percent—threatening a red line that Trump and conservatives have drawn on the latter number. But the amendment failed by a wide margin, 71-29, as most Democrats declined to help Rubio and Lee make a change they might otherwise have supported as policy.
Democrats offered amendments late into the night, to no avail. They tried several times to send the bill back to committee and as a last-gasp delay tactic, Schumer offered a motion to delay the vote until Monday to give the Senate more time to scrutinize the bill. But Republicans defeated all of those efforts on party-line votes. And in perhaps the final drama of the night, not a single Democrat broke ranks and supported the final bill.  Senators Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota had not ruled out working with Republicans. They are facing reelection bids in states where Trump remains popular, and while they were not expected to help pass the tax bill, there was speculation they would vote for it once Republicans demonstrated it was going to pass.
But both Manchin and Heitkamp rejected the final bill, denying the tax overhaul the bipartisan support Republicans said they wanted but never really tried to gain.


Michael Flynn, President Trump’s former national-security adviser, pleaded guilty to making false statements to the FBI about his contacts with Russian officials, and is cooperating with Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. The Washington Post reports that Flynn was acting in consultation with other senior Trump officials, including Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said that the Senate has secured the 50 votes it needs to pass its tax bill, which they will officially vote on tonight. Representative Blake Farenthold reportedly used $84,000 in taxpayer money to settle a sexual-harassment claim in 2014. And Trump is preparing to announce that the United States recognizes Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.
‘A Duty to Uphold Justice’: Top Democrats reacted to the news that Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to FBI officials, warning against White House interference in Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s probe. (Clare Foran)
Rexit: Rex Tillerson was a “disaster” for the State Department, argues Eliot A. Cohen, and whoever replaces him will have to clean up the mess he’s made.
Obamacare on the Ropes: The Republican tax plan will put significant strain on the Affordable Care Act—and the country’s overall health-care landscape. (Vann R. Newkirk II)
Waiting for Flynn: Elaine Godfrey describes the scene outside the federal courthouse where Michael Flynn was pleading guilty. “I’ve been telling myself if I have the chance to chant ‘Lock him up’ at Mike Flynn, I will take that chance,” one protester said.
Radio Atlantic: What lessons have we learned from the 2008 financial crisis? And which are we doomed to repeat? In the latest episode of Radio Atlantic, Annie Lowrey and Alana Semuels join our hosts to look at what’s happened in the decade since the Great Recession.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

The Definitive Trump-Russia Timeline: Look back through the various events related to the Trump administration’s ties to Russia. (Matthew Nussbaum, Politico)
When Dems Were Willing to Cut Taxes: Democrats haven’t always hated tax cuts; in fact, some supported George W. Bush’s tax package, which contained several similar provisions to the Republicans’ current plan. (Kimberley A. Strassel, The Wall Street Journal)
When Abusers Tell the Story: Men in the media have “substantial control over what the public sees, consumes, and ultimately feels,” writes Katie Rogers. So what have people learned about politics, power, and accountability from men accused of sexual misconduct? (The New York Times)
The Twitter Feed Misleads: Trump’s presidency is far more conventional, and successful, than his tweets and off-script comments suggest. (Rich Lowry, New York Post)
Charlottesville, Criticized: Following the city’s call for an investigation into the event, a review found that police failed on many fronts at the August white nationalist rally where Heather Heyer was killed. (Joe Heim, The Washington Post)
Russia Connections: Struggling to keep up with the Russia-Trump relationship? Here’s a look at the members of Trump’s team who are connected to Russian officials. (Jasmine C. Lee and Karen Yourish, The New York Times)
This week, we asked you to react to Richard Fausset’s profile of Tony Hovater, a white nationalist who Fausset describes as “the Nazi sympathizer next door.” We wanted to know: Do stories like this normalize people with extreme viewpoints?
Some of you were indeed critical of Fausset. Christina from Massachusetts wrote that she took issue with the writer being “so glib about Hovater’s so-called ‘normal’ life.” It’s not a surprise, Christina wrote, that “bigots shop and cook and play Nintendo. The surprise is that Fausset thought there was a story here.”
On the other hand, some of you thought that, in “normalizing” Hovater, the piece communicated a crucial aspect of white nationalists. “I thought the story was important precisely because it pointed out that seemingly normal people can hold these types of views,” Vicki from Virginia wrote. “Evil doesn't always come with horns; it could be your next door neighbor.” Charlie from Minnesota echoed that sentiment, writing that stories like Fausset’s are “accurate and effective in that it portrays these guys as they are in most instances.”
And many of you put the onus on readers to be aware of the article’s larger goal. Sandy from California wrote, “This does seem like a case of killing the messenger. Can we not discern the difference between reporting that some fascists will come across as normal in their day-to-day interactions, especially with those they see as being ‘acceptable?’”
Thanks to everyone who submitted responses, and stay tuned for next week’s Question of the Week.
-Written by Lena Felton (@lenakfelton)


It’s not every day that a former White House official pleads guilty to lying to the FBI—especially when that same official once led a crowd of thousands in a rallying cry against government corruption. So on a chilly Friday morning in Washington, dozens of people gathered outside a federal courthouse to revel in Michael Flynn’s undoing.
“I’ve been telling myself if I have the chance to chant ‘Lock him up’ at Mike Flynn, I will take that chance,” said Nick Keenan, a local resident and retiree, referring to the rallying cry both President Trump and Flynn used against Hillary Clinton. Keenan had just arrived on the scene with his wife, Marie Collins, who told me she was “just trying to see a small drop of justice in the chaos of modern American politics.”
If Flynn Is Small Fry, Who’s the Bigger Fish in Mueller’s Net?
In the biggest development so far in the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election, Special Counsel Robert Mueller charged Flynn, the Trump campaign aide-turned-national security adviser, with making false statements to the FBI about his conversations with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. According to Mueller’s team, in one instance Flynn discussed with Kislyak sanctions that the Obama administration had issued against Russia, and then lied about that conversation to intelligence agents.
Flynn arrived at the federal courthouse around 10:30 a.m. ET on Friday to plead guilty to the charge. During his appearance, the sidewalk outside the building was a mix of reporters, curious onlookers, and angry sign-holders waiting for him to make an exit.
One such protester was Paul Romano, a cybersecurity consultant and former captain in the Marine Corps who lives in the Washington area. “I also took an oath,” said Romano, who was carrying a sign that read “Lock him up!” He was referring to the enlistment oath Flynn, a former Army lieutenant general, took at the start of his career; Flynn also took an oath to the country when he was sworn in as a White House staffer. “I’m just ashamed that a fellow serviceman would do that,” Romano added. Behind him were his parents, who anxiously scrolled through a CNN newsfeed on their cellphones and read updates aloud to each other.
I found John Donner, a bearded man in a University of Southern California Trojans baseball cap, leaning against a barrier to the right of the courthouse entrance. “I was gonna go to the movies and go to the Smithsonian—there’s an exhibit at the National Gallery I wanna see,” he said. Instead, he found a better show. “I’m a newshound,” he added, shrugging.
More and more people filled the sidewalk as the morning went on, shuffling around to get a good view of the doors from behind the press cameras and parked cars. There was a collective intake of breath every time the glass revolving doors started to turn. A taxi driver drove by the scene with his head out the window. “Is this about that Donald Trump guy?” he shouted at the crowd.
“It feels like we’re opening a big can of worms,” 23-year-old Beatrice said, with one eye on the door. She and her girlfriend, Concie—both of whom declined to give their last names—had crossed over from Northern Virginia after getting a CNN push notification about the plea hearing. “Like a bad can of worms that’s going to be good in the long run.” Another onlooker, a middle-aged man, told me the same thing: Flynn’s plea is “the beginning of the unraveling.”
The plea is important in part because Flynn is the first member of Trump’s White House staff to be implicated in Mueller’s investigation. What’s more, as my colleague David A. Graham pointed out, the plea “appears to corroborate reports that Flynn was working toward a deal in which he would plead guilty in exchange for cooperating with the government.” That could mean he has valuable information to give Mueller’s team.
Just before noon, a stream of suited men and women poured out, among them the tan and well-coiffed former national-security adviser the crowd had been waiting for. “You lying piece of shit!” Romano yelled. “You took an oath!” Others erupted in a boisterous chant of “Lock him up.” Flynn’s expression didn’t change as he got into the back of a black SUV and drove away. His exit lasted all of 30 seconds. “That seemed … anticlimactic, almost,” I heard someone say.
While most of the onlookers had yelled and snapped photos in Flynn’s direction, Donner, the Trojans fan, stayed quiet. “We have to let nature take its course,” he said. “[Trump] may be absolved, Jared [Kushner] may be absolved. I haven’t drawn any conclusions. I just think you have to uncover the facts as they come and proceed.”


Former National-Security Adviser Michael Flynn’s plea deal in the Russia investigation raises new questions about whether the president sought to obstruct justice when he fired former FBI Director James Comey.“I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy,” President Trump told Comey in February, according to a contemporaneous memo written by Comey.
If Flynn Is Small Fry, Who’s the Bigger Fish in Mueller’s Net?
Flynn pleaded guilty on Friday to lying to the FBI about his communications with former Russian Ambassador Sergei Kislyak. Flynn had requested of Kislyak that the Russian government not retaliate against the United States for sanctions the Obama administration had imposed; the penalties were in response to Russian interference in the 2016 election aimed at helping Trump’s candidacy. The special counsel’s office released a document Friday, signed by Flynn’s attorneys, indicating the former Trump official agreed to give his full cooperation in the investigation, which has already implicated several former aides to his onetime boss.
“When they get a deal, that means they’re fully agreeing to cooperate and provide information on a bigger crime by a bigger target of the investigation,” said Ali Soufan, a former FBI special agent who now runs the Soufan Group security firm.
On Saturday, the president stunned some legal observers when he said on Twitter that “I had to fire General Flynn because he lied to the Vice President and the FBI. He has pled guilty to those lies. It is a shame because his actions during the transition were lawful. There was nothing to hide!”
Susan Hennessey, a former attorney in the National Security Agency’s office of general counsel, noted in response that “this is a pretty substantial confession to essential knowledge elements of an obstruction of justice charge.” The tweet was the first confirmation that Trump himself knew that Flynn had lied to the FBI when he reportedly pressured Comey to back off prosecuting Flynn, meaning that the president could have been attempting to obstruct justice when he did so.
Two sources told the Washington Post that the tweet was drafted by the president’s attorney, John Dowd.
Trump fired Comey in May, and has said publicly that he was considering the Russia investigation when he did so; that fueled allegations of obstruction of justice. A week after Comey’s firing, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed Robert Mueller as special counsel, granting him a broad mandate to investigate crimes related to Russian interference, including potential obstruction.
“If it turns out that General Flynn has information implicating Mr. Trump in a crime, there’s now a much stronger inference that Mr. Trump was obstructing justice if he asked Comey to let the investigation of General Flynn go,” said Bruce Green, a law professor at Fordham University and a former associate special counsel in the Iran-Contra affair.
According to the statement of the offense Mueller issued, Flynn informed a senior member of the Trump transition team on December 29, 2016, that Kislyak had contacted him. During that conversation, they discussed that senior members of the transition team did not want Russia “to escalate the situation” with regard to sanctions. On January 24, four days after Trump took office, Flynn attempted to mislead federal investigators looking into the matter. Acting Attorney General Sally Yates testified to Congress that she warned the White House that Flynn had been compromised by those conversations on January 26, four days before she was fired for ordering Justice Department officials not to defend Trump’s newly issued travel ban. Flynn was not forced to resign until February 13, after his conversations with Kislyak were reported in the press.
“Many points that might form the basis of an obstruction case flow through Flynn,” said Clinton Watts, a former FBI special agent who is currently a fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute. “President Obama warned Trump about Flynn before he took office. Yates contacted the White House about Flynn and was fired shortly after. Trump pressured Comey about Flynn and then later fired him.”
The revelation that Flynn discussed his conversations with Kislyak with a senior member of the transition team raises a number of questions about what Trump and his advisers knew. Vice President Mike Pence led the transition team, but he told CNN earlier this year that Flynn and Kislyak “did not discuss anything having to do with the United States’s decision to expel diplomats or impose censure against Russia.” The information in Flynn’s plea deal suggests that either Pence was kept out of the loop, or he misled the public about the extent of his knowledge.
But Flynn’s plea could be even more perilous for another, even closer presidential adviser: Jared Kushner, who is also the president’s son-in-law. According to The Daily Beast,  Kushner “best fits the description” of the senior transition official with whom Flynn discussed his outreach to Kislyak. NBC News reported Friday afternoon that Kushner is indeed the senior transition official named in the document. If it was Kushner, his own statements to investigators will be closely scrutinized.  
“If Mr. Trump knew that Flynn met with the Russian ambassador at Mr. Kushner’s request and then lied about it, one can assume that Mr. Trump wanted to shut down the FBI investigation to protect his son-in-law more than Flynn,” Green said.
“It’s now clearer that Trump was aware—or certainly should have been aware—that a continuing investigation of Flynn would bring things closer to him and his family, as it now has,” said a former Justice Department official. “So it’s not merely that a continuing investigation might serve as a continuing distraction, or be a source of political embarrassment. It’s that it could point to the involvement—and potential criminal liability—for him and members of his family. It goes to motive, which is not something that the prosecutor needs to prove, but it sure makes life easier in making and proving [a] case.”
It’s unclear whether a sitting president can be indicted, and obstruction of justice is a notoriously difficult charge to prove. But Mueller does have the ability to recommend to the House that Trump be impeached based on whatever he uncovers. And even if Trump himself can’t be prosecuted, his advisers can be. (Trump has denied any wrongdoing and has referred to Mueller’s investigation as a “witch hunt.”)
The difficulty for Mueller is that Flynn has already pled guilty to lying—which means his credibility as a witness is already impaired. But that might not matter if Flynn has documents corroborating his claims.
“The fact that he pled guilty to a false-statement charge is a problem for him as a witness; he’s a proven liar, so his cooperation might be more useful in documented form,” said John Q. Barrett, a law professor at St. John’s University. “If he has recollections that can be corroborated, his testimony could be very powerful.”
The fact that Flynn got a deal at all implies that Mueller believes he can use Flynn’s knowledge to implicate a more important target. The question is who, and for what.
“Based on my experience,” Soufan said, “when someone lies during an investigation, they’re usually trying to conceal a crime.”


Republicans are making some heady claims about their hastily constructed, historically unpopular tax legislation. “If we do this, then America will win again like never, ever before,” President Trump said in a speech touting the legislation this week. “A vote to cut taxes is a vote to put America first again. We want to do that. We want to put America first again. It’s time to take care of our workers, to protect our communities, and to rebuild our great country.”
But a bipartisan group of leading economists have expressed some deep skepticism about many of the central claims the White House and congressional Republicans are making about the potential effects of the legislation. Below are the top seven myths they have put forward—and the evidence that disproves them.
1. The tax bill will pay for itself.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act remains a moving target, with congressional Republicans horse-trading different provisions into and out of the bill and work not yet done to reconcile differences between the House and the Senate versions. Still, the basic parameters are clear. On the household side, the bill would lower the rates charged in each tax bracket, expand the child tax credit, eliminate personal exemptions, and expand the standard deduction. On the business side, it would lower the corporate income tax rate dramatically, and create a big deduction or a special rate for “pass-through” businesses that pay individual income tax rates. It would also let businesses bring back foreign profits at a very low rate, and likely move the country to a territorial tax system, wherein companies pay taxes on profits generated in the United States, not worldwide.
All those rate reductions would mean that the Treasury would be taking in far less money from individuals and businesses. But Republican officials have insisted that the tax cuts would improve growth so much that they would pay for themselves, offsetting the revenue losses. “Not only will this tax plan pay for itself, but it will pay down debt,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin promised recently.
Not so, one of the country’s most respected, nonpolitical economic scorekeepers has said. The Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) this week found that the Senate proposal would increase output by 0.8 percent over ten years. Because that extra output would get taxed like anything else, it would indeed mean additional money going to government coffers—but not nearly enough to cover the losses from the tax cuts. The JCT estimated that the bill would add $1.4 trillion dollars to federal deficits over a decade, ignoring any dynamic effects on the economy. Taking into account improved growth, it would add $1 trillion to federal deficits—more than President Obama’s stimulus bill, passed to save the economy during the Great Recession. A University of Chicago poll of some of the country’s top economists came to the same conclusion. Not a single one of the experts surveyed said that the kind of legislation under consideration would lead to a falling debt-to-GDP ratio.
2. It will supercharge growth.
Still, Republicans have insisted that the legislation would supercharge American growth. “These massive tax cuts will be rocket fuel—Little Rocket Man—rocket fuel for the American economy,” Trump said this week, referencing Kim Jong Un of North Korea. “Remember I used to say, we can hit 4 [percent growth] and we can hit 3? And they were all saying, forget it, forget it. It was 1.2. It was doing terribly. We were flat. We were even. In all fairness, the stock market was going this way. And now, we’re hitting numbers that nobody thought possible.”
But the JCT shows that the tax bill would add less than 0.1 percentage points to the country’s annual rate of growth, totaling just 0.8 percentage points of additional growth over ten years. The experts quoted in that Chicago poll said much the same. “Tax policy appears to have little effect at the margin on GDP growth in OECD countries,” argued David Autor, a Harvard economist.  
Why doesn’t the bill do more for the economy’s growth rate? In part because the government is passing tax cuts when the economy is already doing well—raising the prospect that the Federal Reserve would move to counteract the stimulative effect of all that deficit spending and would raise interest rates to cool the economy off. And in part because giving tax cuts to rich families and corporations is simply not that stimulative of a thing to do, since they do not tend to put the money toward buying new goods and services.
3. Cutting the corporate tax rate will lead businesses to give raises to regular workers.
The Republican legislation would slash the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent, along with eliminating a number of deductions for businesses and tinkering with what gets taxed and when. “It is great for companies, because companies are going to bring back jobs. And we’re lowering the rates, very substantially. But right now, we’re bringing the rates down from 35 percent—which is totally noncompetitive. The highest industrialized nation in the world, by far, and we’re bringing it all the way down to 20 percent,” Trump said this week. “But that’s good for everybody in the room, whether you have company or whether you want a job.”
The idea is that the lower tax rates would encourage businesses to stop using tax shelters overseas and would provide companies with more money to shunt to their workers. Trump’s Council of Economic Advisers has suggested that the corporate tax reform would boost the average family’s income by $4,000 a year, “conservatively.” But that number does not hold up to scrutiny, with most nonpartisan budget scorekeepers and many economists contending that businesses would provide a far smaller bump to average workers. That White House analysis assumes that workers would get 70 percent of the benefit of the rate cut, with shareholders getting the remainder. The Tax Policy Center, a Washington-based think tank, for instance, estimates that workers would get about 20 percent of the value of corporate rate cuts, with the JCT, the Congressional Budget Office, and the Treasury all estimating that workers would get around a quarter of the benefit too. The rest would go to shareholders. Plus, of the money going to workers, much of it would flow to managers and executives, not minimum-wage or average employees.
The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a respected left-of-center think tank, has said that researchers view the White House’s analysis “with considerable skepticism due to its methodological weaknesses,” and describes its assumptions as “unrealistic.”
4. Corporations will invest more.
A second argument the White House and prominent Republicans have made is that businesses will use their bolstered earnings to invest here in the United States, helping the economy as a whole. “Last year, American multinational companies left more than 70 percent of their foreign profits overseas,” Trump said this week. “They actually get penalized. Our plan switches to a territorial tax system that encourages companies to return their profits to America—right here to the United States.”
One thing is certain: Companies will bring hundreds of billions of dollars home, to take advantage of the tax holiday. But it seems unlikely that most, or even much, of the money would flow to workers and investment, rather than to shareholders. To wit, a Bank of America/Merrill Lynch survey found that companies were eagerly anticipating what they would do with their cash. They were most likely to respond that they would pay down debt and buy up their own shares—neither of which would help workers much. Other executives have indicated that they would use the money for dividends.
Recent history also suggests that companies would do more to improve shareholder returns than to invest in their businesses or expand and enrich their workforces. Back in 2004, Congress let companies repatriate their earnings, much as Congress is planning to do now. “While empirical evidence is clear that this provision resulted in a significant increase in repatriated earnings, empirical evidence is unable to show a corresponding increase in domestic investment or employment,” a Congressional Research Service report found.
Economists think the same thing would happen this time around. Companies are already highly profitable and borrowing costs are already low, after all: Businesses do not really need the government to induce them to invest. Moreover, though the United States has high statutory corporate tax rates, few companies pay high effective tax rates. The Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy has found that 258 big corporations paid an average effective tax rate of 21.2 percent in recent years, with 18 companies—among them General Electric and Priceline.com—never paying federal income taxes during the time period studied.
5. The rich are not going to benefit from the bill.  
Trump has repeatedly promised that rich families like his do not stand to benefit from the Republican legislation. “We’re also going to eliminate tax breaks and complex loopholes taken advantage of by the wealthy. Who are they? I don’t know,” he said this week. “I think my accountants are going crazy right now. It’s all right. Hey, look, I’m president. I don’t care. I don’t care anymore. I don’t care. Some of my wealthy friends care. Me? I don’t care. This is a higher calling. Do we agree?”
This is false: As a general point, the richer the family, the more they benefit from the legislation, particularly over time. The Tax Policy Center has found that the biggest benefits would go to families in the top 5 percent as of 2019, with the smallest benefits going to those in the lowest income quartile. By 2027, families in the lowest two income quartiles would be receiving, on average, no benefit at all, with the biggest gains accruing to families in the top 0.1 percent of the income distribution. Moreover, the richest-of-the-rich families would exclusively benefit from initiatives like the reduction in or an elimination of the estate tax, which would let individuals like Trump pass millions and millions of dollars more to their heirs.
5, cont. Trump himself would not benefit.
“This is going to cost me a fortune, this thing—believe me,” Trump said this week. “Believe me, this is not good for me. Me, it’s not—so‚ I have some very wealthy friends, not so happy with me, but that’s okay.”
This is not true. In fact, Trump stands to benefit to the tune of hundreds of millions, if not billions, of dollars, according to tax analysts, though it is hard to know with much specificity, given that he refuses to release his tax returns and House and Senate Republicans keep tinkering with the legislation. The elimination of the alternative minimum tax. The changes to the estate tax. Abbreviated depreciation schedules. Deductions or special rates for pass-through businesses. All these provisions stand to benefit Trump directly. Indeed, tax experts have said that as a real-estate developer he seems uniquely positioned to benefit from tax reform.
6. The plan is designed for the middle class.
“The beating heart of our plan is a tax cut for working families,” Trump said this week. “That’s what it is. We’re going to make sure that you keep more of your hard-earned money. We’re going to make sure, also, that you have a job that you want.”
This is not true. Indeed, families in the middle of the income distribution would on average see no benefit from the plan as of 2027, whereas families at the top would be paying far less in taxes and many families at the bottom would actually be paying more. One reason is that the legislation changes the way that the tax brackets get adjusted year after year to account for the effect of inflation. More families would get pushed into higher tax brackets sooner under the Republican plan, so they would end up paying more in taxes, even though the marginal rates would be lower. In addition, Republicans have gone after a number of provisions in the current code—the state and local tax deduction and the medical expense deduction, for instance—that help many middle-class and upper-middle-class families.
Republicans have countered some of these claims by saying that it is impossible to cut income tax rates without primarily benefiting the rich: The rich make more money, so inevitably they get big reductions when you cut taxes, the theory goes. But this argument is silly. It is mathematically simple to design tax cuts whose benefits go exclusively to lower-income and middle-income families. It just requires making the code more progressive—something that Republicans do not want and have chosen not to do.
7. It will help small businesses.
“We’ll also cut taxes for the millions of small businesses that file as individuals, and that’s going to come out of the hopper,” Trump said this week. “It’s getting there and it’s going to be better and better. We’re reducing the tax burden on businesses of all sizes and of every, single kind.”
Here, the Republican rhetoric is more a distortion than an outright falsehood. The plan, as it stands in the Senate, allows “pass-through” businesses—accounting for hundreds of thousands of businesses that pay under the individual rather than the corporate code—to deduct 22 percent of their income before paying taxes, up to a certain limit. In the House, it allows those pass-throughs to pay taxes at a special low rate. The pool of pass-through businesses includes any number of cookie shops and bodegas and corner stores, but also law firms, hedge funds, consulting firms, real-estate development companies, investment partnerships, and lobbying businesses. An estimated 70 percent of the benefits for such pass-through firms go to the top 1 percent of income earners—meaning this benefit is more about helping rich families than it is about helping small local businesses.
Moreover, such changes to the way pass-through businesses are taxed complicate the code and create a preferential category for rich individuals to try to work their income into—something contrary to the very spirit of tax reform. The new provisions have “the potential to become the single greatest inducement to tax arbitrage ever enacted by a single Congress,” the tax expert Daniel Shaviro of New York University Law School has written, also saying that they “might end up being the single worst structural change in the history of the U.S. federal income tax.”
Of course, the Trump administration has promised that what it says is true, and that it would produce evidence of how much good its tax plan would do for the American people. Then again, The New York Times reports that a Treasury document purportedly showing that the Trump tax cuts would pay for themselves has not been forthcoming because it does not—and presumably cannot—exist.


The graceless defenestration is one of Washington’s crueler art forms. In the case of Rex Tillerson, who has long stoutly maintained that he has no intention of resigning, it has been done with White House leaks about a reshuffle apparently masterminded by White House Chief of Staff John Kelly. In the Marine Corps, these things are done more forthrightly, one suspects; but Kelly is a Trumpian civilian now, so he called Tillerson’s office to deny a story leaked by the White House to major news outlets. Meanwhile, a respected senior colleague gets a prolonged and humiliating shove out the window. Like so much in the capital these days, it’s low-end Shakespeare, farcical court politics albeit without the elevated language.
Tillerson was, as is now recognized even by those who put him there, a disaster. As with most spectacular Washington flame-outs, his failures stem not from stupidity or general incompetence, but from a specific set of disabilities: an introverted and cocooned style of management that gave power to a few hated but overwhelmed and incompetent gatekeepers; insufficient skill at buttering up his volatile boss who, in an unguarded moment, the secretary seems to have characterized as a “moron”; morbid suspicion and sequestration of the State Department press, alienating a collection of hopeless foreign-policy wonks who normally fall in love with the secretary and sing his or her praises accordingly; management-jargon-laden reforms heavy on business-speak and low on familiarity with the work of diplomacy that demoralized the foreign service; and incapacity at finding and pushing through appointees who might do the work of diplomacy. He was a debacle, pure and simple, the worst secretary of state in living memory (and there has been serious competition) not because of ineptitude, but because of the semi-intentional demolition job he was doing on his own department even as he fell out of presidential favor.
Trump Plays Musical Chairs in the Cabinet Room
Even implacable enemies of the administration should cheer the arrival of Mike Pompeo as secretary of state. He is a former Army officer, a successful politician, and a veteran of running a large bureaucracy—the CIA. This means that, unlike Tillerson, he is used to motivating career people whom he cannot either fire or incentivize with money. He is sometimes described as a Trump loyalist, but that is nonsense: No one is loyal to Trump—he is too indecent a human being to attract such normal personal attachments.
The administration is not divided into people who are loyal to Trump and those who are not. Rather, it is divided between those who know how to manipulate his vanity, his hatreds, his sensitivities, and those who do not. It is divided between those who think he is their ticket to fame and fortune and those who hope to survive this episode with their reputations more or less intact. It is divided, at the most fundamental level, between those willing to sell their souls completely and at a discount in the service of a man who is doing great damage to American norms and institutions, and those who are trying to get something for their country in return for the slices of honor and integrity that every day they reluctantly consign to the flames.
So here is a plausible account of what Pompeo would do, if he replaces Tillerson. He will fire Tillerson’s cabal, shrink the Policy Planning staff, and return it to its more normal role of writing speeches and doing long-range thinking. He will ostentatiously drape an arm around the shoulders of the foreign service. He will bring journalists back onto his plane and schmooze them—in return getting more than his fair share of what Washington journalists sometimes call “beat-sweetener” stories. Unlike Tillerson, who seems in good corporate fashion to have decided that a 30 percent cut ordained by headquarters is the equivalent of a Czar’s ukase—unwelcome, perhaps, but not to be questioned—he will fight back. He will either bully OMB Director Mick Mulvaney or, more likely, smile sweetly at him, assure him of his complete support—and then end-run around him on Capitol Hill, letting angry senators do for him the dirty work of subverting the president’s budget. He will call in some of the retired senior diplomats—legendary ambassadors like Ryan Crocker who have been uncharacteristically public in their criticisms of Tillerson—and listen to them with at least the appearance of attentiveness. Above all, he will flatter the president shamelessly, praising his toughness and superlative insights while steering policy in a more or less sane (if, to be sure, tough-minded) direction. He will rattle some with hardline rhetoric, but at least he will articulate a coherent view of American foreign policy to the world, and that will be an advance.
This is to be welcomed because it will restore some balance to foreign-policy-making, in which the State Department has been appallingly weak. The task before Pompeo will be enormous. It is easier to say which diplomatic positions have been filled than which have not—we have no ambassadors for Saudi Arabia, Germany, or France, let alone representatives to the European Union or the International Atomic Energy Agency. We have no assistant secretaries of state for East Asia and the Pacific (as we possibly stumble into a second Korean War) and none for the Middle East.
The State Department is indeed due for a reorganization—but it would have been wise to have at least a core staff in place to do it, and to have done it by listening and learning the business of diplomacy first, and leaving the management consultants to work their magic on failing bricks-and-mortar retail companies, which they may understand, rather than foreign policy, which they probably do not. This is not the immediate task in any case. What Pompeo will need to do rather, is to get the department up and running again, and doing the day-to-day foreign-relations work of maintaining America’s role in the world.
It will be interesting to see whether Pompeo would do better than his inarticulate predecessor in laying out American values as well as American interests. That will be the big divide with the White House, if he has the stomach for it: making it clear that commitment to free government, rule of law, and individual liberty are critical parts of the American message to the world, and an essential element not only of America’s appeal, but American power. Trump does not understand this, of course.
There will be other challenges as well. If he is honest, and has honest subordinates, the new secretary will realize how much damage has already been done to America’s global standing as evidenced by the deals cut by Middle Eastern allies with Russia, by Asian allies with China and by the profound disgust and mistrust with which our European allies view our president. Above all, he will—again, if he is honest—have to confront the fact that America’s reputation and indeed its stability are in question around the world. That is the meta foreign-policy crisis of our times, and he may not be able to do a great deal about it.
There will be one lesson from this episode that he and every other senior official should also take away. If the president and his immediate staff can treat Tillerson this way, they can, and will, treat anyone this way. Eviction by sustained humiliation was a gambit Trump tried with Jeff Sessions, whose desire to cling to his job seems to have overwhelmed whatever stock of self-respect he once possessed.  But if Tillerson has had the experience of getting unceremoniously muscled over the window ledge before a crowd of gaping onlookers, the same may await any of the rest of them, including those even now prying his clutching fingers off the sill. And like Tillerson himself, as they plunge to earth they will see in the onlookers’ eyes a kind of disgusted curiosity, but not much in the way of sympathy.


Top Democrats reacted to the news on Friday that former National-Security Adviser Michael Flynn had pled guilty to lying to the FBI by warning that President Trump or his allies may try to curtail ongoing investigations into Russia’s attempt to influence the 2016 presidential election, and insisting that those investigations continue without interference.
The Rebirth of America's Pro-Natalist Movement
Flynn, a close Trump ally who campaigned with the president and briefly followed him into the administration, made false statements to investigators about his contacts with the Russian ambassador about sanctions implemented by the previous administration. Those sanctions were put in place to punish Russia for what U.S. intelligence agencies said was an effort to interfere in the 2016 election on Trump’s behalf. Flynn also said on Friday that he is cooperating with the special counsel investigation led by Robert Mueller.
Democratic House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi called on Congress to shield the special counsel probe from White House interference and reiterated her call for an outside independent investigation. Pelosi has praised Mueller, a former FBI director, as “a respected public servant,” in the past but has also expressed concern that the White House could attempt to interfere with his investigation, which is operating under the supervision of the Department of Justice.
“The U.S. Congress has a duty to uphold justice, and to take measures to ensure that Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation proceed without interference from the White House,” Pelosi said in a statement on Friday, calling for “an outside, fully independent investigation.” Pelosi has called for an outside investigation for months that could operate in the mold of the 9/11 commission, a bipartisan commission set up by Congress that produced a wide-ranging report on the September 11, 2001, terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.
Adam Schiff, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, warned in a statement that “the plea secured by Mueller may prompt the White House and its allies to seek to curtail congressional investigations, as President Trump has attempted to do already, or end the special counsel’s work prematurely. Congress must make it clear that this would not be acceptable.” The House and Senate Intelligence Committees are both probing Russian election interference and potential Trump-Russia ties.
Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, similarly said that “investigations must be allowed to continue without interference,” though she did not call for an independent outside investigation.
High-ranking Democrats focused attention on Trump on Friday.
Pelosi called Flynn’s guilty plea “a dark moment in our nation’s history” in her statement, adding that “the American people deserve to know what the President knows about Russian meddling in our election and why he refuses to take action against Russia.”
Schiff added that the Flynn revelations are significant because they include “new details, including that Flynn was directed by a senior transition official to contact Russian officials in an effort” and also because “Flynn’s lies to the FBI … were made at a time when he was serving as President Trump’s National Security Advisor, a position of incredible influence and responsibility.”
Democratic National Committee Chair Tom Perez said “this time, the president can’t get away with claiming these charges aren’t about his inner circle’s contacts with Russia, and he can’t dismiss Michael Flynn as some low-level aide.”
Flynn’s guilty plea marks a new stage in the special counsel investigation.
Last month, Mueller brought charges against three former Trump associates: Former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, Rick Gates, a deputy to Manafort on the campaign, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign foreign-policy adviser. Trump has called the Russia investigation a “witch hunt.” On Friday, a White House lawyer said that “nothing about the guilty plea [entered by Flynn] or the charge implicates anyone other than Mr. Flynn.”


It’s been two months since the last major push to repeal the Affordable Care Act died in the Senate, but the law is still on the ropes. Republican efforts to stymie the law and dismantle connected pieces of the national health infrastructure are taking their toll. With or without a full repeal, policy developments on the horizon could topple Obamacare, causing millions to lose coverage or see their health-care costs increase beyond their ability to pay.
Very few pieces of the health law aren’t vulnerable right now. To start, it turns out that despite numerous reports of “surges” in sign-ups on HealthCare.gov, the federal-exchange website, at the beginning of the open-enrollment period in November, overall uptake might still be anemic compared with last year.
This was the desired result on the part of the White House. The Trump administration slashed the open-enrollment advertising budget and halved the sign-up period this year. That means that in order to outpace 2016’s numbers on the federal exchange, enrollment would have had to start strong and outpace every 2016 benchmark. Buoyed by promotion from health-care companies and private citizens—including Barack Obama—a strong start materialized, but the pace has recently slipped. So far, 2.3 million people have signed up for coverage on the federal exchange, but about 7 million more would need to enroll before the end of open enrollment on December 15 to match last year’s numbers.
Republican Obstruction of Obamacare Helped Put Trump in the White House
If this year’s enrollment falls short, it could further imperil exchanges that are already at risk. Insurance companies plan both their rates and their participation in the exchanges based on future margins, which depend on both the volume and health of enrollees. Existing instability on the exchanges—and GOP “sabotage”—have already increased premiums, although most consumers don’t actually see those rising costs because federal subsidies hide them. But with the addition of more uncertainty, generated by the administration’s refusal to make cost-sharing-reduction payments to insurers, there’s a greater incentive to leave markets altogether or find ways to select against poorer enrollees. The number of counties with no insurers offering plans on the exchanges is already rising, and there are over 1,000 counties with only a single insurer.
Given the peculiarities of the open-enrollment period this year, those numbers might increase. The decrease in sign-up volume would be a problem in and of itself, but the kinds of people who choose not to enroll is also an issue. Some navigators, professionals who assist consumers with signing up for insurance, expect that the abridged enrollment period and cuts to advertising will lead to much fewer healthier and younger people signing up for care—and those people are vital to keeping exchange risk pools balanced and keeping premiums from spiking even further. In the words of one navigator interviewed by West Virginia Public Broadcasting: “They are typically the people who waited until [the] last minute and they are typically swayed by the advertising that the federal government isn’t paying for this year.”
Realistically, even open-enrollment numbers that surge past last year’s targets might not keep the exchanges in working order. That’s because the Republican tax bill heading toward a final vote in the Senate dismantles the key provision in Obamacare holding those exchanges together: the individual mandate. In addition to its deficit-increasing tax cuts for older and wealthier Americans, the bill in its current form also stealthily kills the requirement that all Americans have insurance, thus accomplishing at least part of the “skinny repeal” that failed to gain traction in the Senate before. While in theory this provision would reduce the bill’s overall effects on the deficit—because fewer people signing up for insurance translates to fewer federal tax credits—realistically it would probably be a blow to the exchanges and to much of the Affordable Care Act’s coverage gains.
An analysis from the Congressional Budget Office predicts that’s what would happen. The CBO report says that repealing the mandate would reduce the number of insured people by 13 million over the next 10 years. While some of the decrease would come from people simply choosing not to pay for insurance, the bulk of it would come from losing the mandate as the “glue” for the whole program.
For example, the CBO projection includes about 5 million people who’d leave Medicaid rolls, even though Medicaid is free. Other, previous analyses have found that the mandate helps ease the stigma of enrolling in Medicaid, a means-tested program traditionally viewed as welfare. They’ve also found it helps spread awareness about coverage options to low-income people and their children. What’s more, diminishing risk pools on the exchanges—the result of an imbalance between high- and low-cost patients—raise premiums and can influence insurer decisions to pull out of markets.
It’s hard to imagine those changes would leave stable, working exchanges in the years ahead. Again, insurers make decisions based on risk, and it seems the Trump administration and a Republican Congress are presenting them with plenty of risk.
The bill’s potential effect on Americans’ health doesn’t stop at the mandate. The CBO also reports that if the projected deficit increase of $1.5 trillion isn’t mitigated through additional legislation, it’ll trigger automatic cuts in mandatory spending, including up to $25 billion a year from Medicare. That alone wouldn’t be enough to close the deficit gap, but it’d have serious implications for the decades-old program. Twenty-five billion dollars is only 4 percent of its annual budget, but as Vox’s Sarah Kliff explained, for life-saving therapies and programs requiring expensive drugs and devices, that 4 percent makes all the difference.
Additionally, as my colleague James Hamblin noted, the overall health effects from income inequality run deeper and broader than coverage numbers suggest. With the bill expected to increase relative disparities between upper- and lower-income tiers, some researchers predict that the stress of trying to make it out of the working class will only increase, and with it, so will health disparities.
In short, the legislation would put incredible strains on the remaining infrastructure of the health law, just as another blow is potentially around the corner. As more and more senators, including Maine’s Susan Collins, have been coaxed to get on board with the GOP’s tax plan, a reauthorization bill for the Children’s Health Insurance Program has languished since Congress allowed the program to lapse in September. States have been relying on reserve funding to keep the 9 million children insured through the program covered, but for many states that money will soon run out. The lack of a deal on CHIP is baffling for a program that has long enjoyed bipartisan support, and all the more so because the holdup appears to be the cost of the program. CHIP, which costs roughly $15 billion annually, is in limbo while a $1.5 trillion tax plan consolidates GOP support.
Nothing is a sure thing at this point. Obamacare sign-ups could rally over the next two weeks. A final tax plan could still be defeated in either chamber, or lawmakers could ditch the individual-mandate provision. And CHIP could still get reauthorized, even if it takes a bit of congressional brinksmanship to get there. But with markets already wracked by instability and uncertainty, damage to the greater health-care landscape has already been done.


Updated on December 1 at 12:00 p.m.
Whatever is on President Trump’s Christmas list, it didn’t include Friday’s news: Special Counsel Robert Mueller has charged former National-Security Adviser Michael Flynn with making false statements to the FBI about his conversations with then-Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Worse, Flynn pleaded guilty Friday morning at federal court in Washington.
It’s an ironic turn for a man who first reached widespread national attention leading chants of “Lock her up!” about Hillary Clinton at the 2016 Republican National Convention.
Why the White House Dreads a Flynn Indictment
And it is monumental news in the special counsel’s investigation, dwarfing even the indictment of former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort. First, and most bluntly, it’s notable because the former national-security adviser, the closest adviser to the president on the most sensitive issues of defense and national safety, is pleading guilty to a felony committed while he served as national-security adviser.
Second, the move puts Mueller’s investigation inside the White House. As I wrote last month, a Flynn indictment filled the Trump team with particular dread, and for good reason. Before the Flynn charge, Mueller had charged two former campaign staffers with crimes committed outside of the campaign, and a low-level campaign staffer had pleaded guilty to lying to federal agents about his contacts with Russians during the campaign.
Flynn, in contrast, was a top adviser to the president in the White House before he was fired in mid-February, for lying to Vice President Mike Pence about his conversations with Kislyak. That made his tenure as national-security adviser historically brief. So far, the special counsel has released little information about the charges, but the two-page document indicates that Flynn’s conversations with Kislyak concerned presidential policy. According to the special counsel, Flynn spoke to Kislyak asking him to refrain from responding to new sanctions imposed in the waning days of the Obama administration, and that Flynn asked Kislyak to delay or defeat a UN Security Council vote; he then lied about those conversations with the FBI.
The fact that Flynn was operating on behalf of the incoming government represents the first concrete case of Trump’s presidential staff, rather than his campaign team, covering up contacts with Russia. Prosecutors said in court filings on Friday that Flynn called a “senior official of the Presidential Transition Team” on December 29, after being contacted by Kislyak, and was told that the transition did not want Russia to escalate the situation. Flynn then called Kislyak to request that Russia respond only in a reciprocal manner, which it subsequently did.
The filings also said that, on December 22, “a very senior member of the Presidential Transition Team” directed Flynn to contact officials from foreign governments about a pending UN Security Council resolution on the issue of Israel settlements, to find out where they stood and to persuade them to delay or defeat the resolution. Flynn made that request of Kislyak that same day, but Kislyak told him the following day that Russia would not oppose the resolution if it came to a vote. (It passed with 14 votes in favors, and only the U.S. abstaining.)
Third, the plea appears to corroborate reports that Flynn was working toward a deal in which he would plead guilty in exchange for cooperating with the government. That’s also bad news for the Trump administration, because it indicates that Flynn knows something of value to the special counsel’s investigation. Mueller’s choice of lieutenants has suggested he is seeking to flip key witnesses in order to learn essential information, but so far that had only yielded George Papadopoulos, a previously little-known campaign aide. Flynn is a far larger catch. In fact, one might expect the national-security adviser to be near the top of the food chain, since he reports directly to the president. If Flynn is small fry, how many bigger fish are there, and who?
Fourth, it’s notable that the charge against Flynn is lying to the FBI. That’s because it has been more or less known since February that he did so. On February 16, three days after Flynn’s forced resignation, The Washington Post reported both that Flynn had denied speaking with Kislyak about the sanctions in a conversation with FBI agents, and that intelligence intercepts indicated he was lying. The FBI interview took place on January 24; on January 26, then-Acting Attorney General Sally Yates spoke to White House Counsel Don McGahn, and in testimony in May she implied that she had informed McGahn that Flynn lied to FBI agents. The investigation into Flynn’s alleged lying to FBI agents long-predates Mueller’s appointment as special counsel in May.
In other words, Mueller charged Flynn with a crime that everyone knew he committed, and has known he committed for months. His quick plea, and the skeletal charging document, point to any number of other potential crimes, whether publicly discussed or not.
Certainly, there’s a range of questionable conduct for Mueller to investigate. Like Manafort, Flynn retroactively filed under the Foreign Agent Registration Act for lobbying, in Flynn’s case for work on behalf of Turkey that occurred during the campaign and ended (per Flynn) only with Flynn’s November 2016 appointment as national-security adviser. The plea deal stipulates that Flynn made “materially false statements and representations” in his March 2017 FARA filings that disclosed this work, but those were not among the statements for which he was charged. That’s at least one clear instance in which Mueller is aware of criminal misconduct which he has chosen not to prosecute at this stage of his investigation.
That’s not all. According to reports and an account from former CIA Director James Woolsey, Flynn discussed a plot to kidnap Fethullah Gulen, the Turkish cleric living in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania, whom the Turkish government accuses of fomenting a failed 2016 coup, and bundle him off to Turkey. Flynn also reportedly pushed a business plan on which he’d been a paid consultant after he entered the White House, a potential misuse of his office.
Flynn could also be in trouble for things he did before he was appointed national-security adviser. After leaving the military, Flynn was paid for trips overseas, including one to Russia for a fete celebrating RT, the Kremlin-backed news and propaganda outlet; at dinner, Flynn was seated with President Vladimir Putin. As former top brass, Flynn should have sought Pentagon permission before taking those trips; he also should have disclosed them when applying to renew his security clearance in 2016. Members of Congress allege that Flynn did neither.
These are only the incidents which have been publicly reported. Mueller may or may not know of other possible misdeeds.
The obvious question any time someone is caught lying to the FBI is, How could they have been so stupid? This is especially true in the case of Flynn, the former head of the Defense Intelligence Agency. As a decorated and accomplished intelligence officer, he should have known that conversations with the Russian ambassador might be surveilled, producing irrefutable evidence that he was lying. His decision to lie about such a black-and-white matter raises questions about whether he might have hoped to cover something up.
The plea once again raises questions about the president’s judgment, both in hiring Flynn and afterwards. Flynn’s firing from the DIA by President Obama for mismanagement ought to have been a red flag. The campaign did not effectively vet Flynn, failing to turn up the missing security-clearance disclosures. The New York Times reports that Flynn told the Trump transition team in January that he was under investigation for undisclosed lobbying on behalf of Turkey. Top White House officials deny they were informed.
Nor did Trump act swiftly to deal with Flynn’s duplicity. Even after McGahn was apparently informed that Flynn had lied to the FBI, Trump did not force Flynn out until February 13—and then only after The Washington Post reported that Flynn had lied about his conversations with Kislyak. At the time, the White House said Flynn was forced out for lying to Mike Pence, and it also defended his character, even as it knew he’d lied to the FBI.
Once Flynn had been fired, the president pressured then-FBI Director James Comey to drop the investigation into Flynn, one of several incidents in which the president attempted to interfere in FBI probes. On May 9, Trump fired Comey, a decision he attributed to the Russia probe. Here, too, Trump’s aggressive steps to defend Flynn seem to defy simple explanation. Flynn’s plea could tie into a reported investigation into whether Trump obstructed justice by firing Comey.
Given the brevity of the public documents, there’s little else to be gleaned at this point. Mueller’s investigation has been highly disciplined about leaks, with little information reaching the public. There’s no way to predict how soon information obtained from Flynn might reach the public or help to produce fresh charges. But the simple fact of Mueller nabbing Flynn now is enough to take a little merriment out of the president’s Christmas.


The Senate tax bill is moving closer to a climactic final passage, but it faced an unexpected threat on Thursday after a new analysis found that it would increase the debt far more than party leaders had claimed.
Republican leaders were scrambling to rewrite portions of the far-reaching bill overnight on Thursday to win over deficit hawks and lock down the 50 GOP votes they’ll need to push it over the line. By Friday morning, they had secured the support of two holdouts, Senators Ron Johnson of Wisconsin and Steve Daines of Montana, who were demanding more favorable treatment of so-called “pass through” companies whose owners file their taxes as individuals. But Republicans still had a few more senators to secure ahead of a final vote expected later on Friday.
“We’re confident of the 50 and we’d like to build on that,” Senator John Cornyn told reporters on Friday, according to Bloomberg. While Republicans can pass the tax bill with just 50 votes and the tie-breaking assent of Vice President Mike Pence. But it would leave them with no margin for error as they head into negotiations on a final bill with the House, which would still have to pass both chambers.
A day earlier, a group of GOP senators led by Bob Corker of Tennessee refused for more than a hour to vote down a Democratic bid to defeat the $1.4 trillion tax cut. After huddling and trading proposals with colleagues on the Senate floor, the lawmakers each voted with their fellow Republicans to allow the measure to advance. However, Corker’s support for the chamber’s final legislation, which will soon go up for a vote, is still in doubt: The Senate parliamentarian ruled that his proposal for a tax-hike “trigger” would not comply with the chamber’s strict rules for passing bills with only a simple-majority vote. Corker and Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the second-ranking Republican, said the party would now consider automatically rolling back some of the plan’s tax cuts to secure its eventual approval.
A Conservative Uprising Confronts GOP Deficit Hawks
Republicans had hoped to pass the bill late Thursday night, but they delayed further votes until Friday as leaders searched for hundreds of billions of dollars in additional revenue to secure the support of deficit hawks like Corker and Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona. Passage of the Senate bill would set up negotiations with the House on a reconciled package that President Trump could sign into law. That the party was still rewriting the bill at this late stage underscored the chaotic process Republicans have undertaken, which Democrats have denounced as rushed and irresponsible.
Whether scaling back the tax cuts will threaten the Senate bill remains unclear, but it is sure to upset House conservatives who have watched the Senate negotiations with alarm. Earlier on Thursday, several said they opposed the trigger, a measure that could cause taxes to go back up if the economy doesn’t grow as fast as congressional Republicans say it will. Conservative activists have also mobilized against the idea, arguing it would undermine the tax cuts and deter business investment.
The drama on the Senate floor occurred barely an hour after the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation released a widely anticipated projection on the economic impact of the legislation. The panel’s analysts found that contrary to the party’s insistence that its tax cuts would send the economy into higher gear, the measure would only increase the GDP by a minuscule 0.8 percent over a decade. As a result, the cuts would spike deficits by $1 trillion over that same period. The White House and Republican leaders had repeatedly claimed the bill would pay for itself with economic growth.
Republicans can lose no more than two of their 52 members. Corker, Flake, and Senator James Lankford of Oklahoma had all raised concerns about its impact on the deficit—worries that are unlikely to be assuaged by the JCT analysis. Johnson had wavered on the bill Thursday for a different reason, arguing it overly favored corporations over small businesses and so-called “pass-through” entities; the Wisconsin Republican is a part-owner of one such business in his home state. He was one of the three Republicans who held up the procedural vote Thursday afternoon.
But on Friday, he and Daines said GOP leaders had agreed to boost the tax exemption for pass-through businesses to 23 percent, up from 17 percent in the original Senate bill. That, Daines said, would be equivalent to a $100 billion tax cut for “Main Street.” Yet making the bill even costlier could make it harder to win over Corker and Flake. A third holdout is Senator Susan Collins, the Maine moderate, who had said party leaders were addressing her demands on health care and restoring a deduction for state and local property taxes up to $10,000.
If Republicans win over Collins, they might be able to pass the bill without Corker and Flake’s support. “I realize that there’s probably enough votes right now to pass it,” Corker told the Wall Street Journal on Friday morning.
GOP leaders earlier on Thursday seemed on the verge of success after Senator John McCain of Arizona, who had torpedoed the Senate’s health-care bill over the summer, announced his support for the tax cuts. But the deficit drama on the floor threw the final outcome, once again, into doubt.


Updated at 12:31 p.m. ET
Michael Flynn, the former national-security adviser, said he is cooperating with Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s wide-ranging investigation after pleading guilty on Friday to making false statements to the FBI about his contacts with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak.
“My guilty plea and agreement to cooperate with the Special Counsel’s Office reflect a decision I made in the best interests of my family and of our country,” Flynn said in a statement Friday. “I accept full responsibility for my actions.”
Flynn’s statement came after he entered a guilty plea in a Washington federal courthouse to one charge of lying to federal investigators earlier this year. “On or about January 24, 2017, defendant Michael T. Flynn did willfully and knowingly make materially false, fictitious, and fraudulent statements and representations in a matter within the jurisdiction of the executive branch of the Government of the United States,” a federal court filing by the special counsel’s office said.
Mueller’s office announced Friday morning that Flynn had misled investigators about these conversations in two ways. First, he told the FBI that he did not ask Kislyak on December 29, 2016 “to refrain from escalating the situation in response to sanctions that the United States had imposed against Russia that same day.” That conversation took place on the same day that the Obama administration announced sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin’s government for interfering in the 2016 presidential election.
U.S. intelligence officials reportedly overheard the conversation as part of their regular surveillance of Kislyak. When reports of the conversation became public in January, Vice President Mike Pence and then-White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus publicly defended Flynn and denied any wrongdoing. Trump fired Flynn on February 14 for lying to both men about the nature of his communication with Kislyak.
Friday’s filing also said Flynn misled FBI investigators about his efforts to persuade the Russian ambassador on December 22, 2016 to delay a vote on a then-pending United Nations Security Council resolution about Israeli settlements.
Flynn’s statement confirms weeks of speculation that he would cooperate with the special-counsel investigation that has overshadowed the first year of Trump’s presidency. Flynn’s lawyers cut off communications with Trump’s lawyers earlier this month, a move that suggested he would potentially exchange information with Mueller’s team. In March, Flynn’s lawyer asked for immunity from prosecution in exchange for his client’s testimony, cryptically saying Flynn “certainly has a story to tell.” Trump, for his part, publicly encouraged him to do so at the time.
Mike Flynn should ask for immunity in that this is a witch hunt (excuse for big election loss), by media & Dems, of historic proportion!
In the formal statement of the offense, filed Friday, the special counsel’s office laid out a timeline of Flynn’s conversations with Kislyak. After the Russian ambassador contacted him on December 28, 2016 to apparently discuss the recent sanctions, Flynn called “a senior official of the Presidential Transition Team” at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida for advice on a potential response.
“On that call, Flynn and the PTT official discussed the U.S. sanctions, including the potential impact of those sanctions on the incoming administration’s foreign policy goals,” the filing said. “The PTT official and Flynn also discussed that the members of the Presidential Transition Team at Mar-a-Lago did not want Russia to escalate the situation.” The identity of the official with whom Flynn spoke is not disclosed.
Flynn subsequently relayed those messages to the Russian ambassador and then notified the transition-team official of that conversation. Russian President Vladimir Putin announced his country would not retaliate against the Obama administration’s sanctions the following day. The filing also briefly describes a back-and-forth call between Flynn and Kislyak about the United Nations resolution vote one week prior at the behest of an unnamed “very senior member” of the transition team, as well as Flynn’s “other false statements” about his contacts and lobbying efforts on behalf of the Turkish government.
The special counsel’s office indicated that the information it provided to the court was only a partial description of what it knew about Flynn’s involvement in the events that transpired. “These facts do not constitute all of the facts known to the parties concerning the charged offenses,” the filing said. “They are being submitted to demonstrate that sufficient facts exist that the defendant committed the offense to which he is pleading guilty.”
Flynn’s legal issues may also extend beyond the question of Russian interference. Maryland Representative Elijah Cummings suggested in May that Flynn may have broken federal law by not disclosing his payments from Russia Today during a standard background check in 2016. Flynn is also under scrutiny for lobbying work he did on behalf of a Turkish businessman while also advising the Trump campaign.
Flynn’s move is the heaviest political blow to Trump yet from the Russia investigation. Mueller’s team charged three other Trump-campaign officials earlier this fall, including former campaign chairman Paul Manafort. But none of the other defendants enjoyed a relationship as close as the one between Flynn and Trump before and after the election. Trump, for his part, has denied any wrongdoing and publicly described the congressional and Justice Department inquiries as a “witch hunt.”
Those ties did not prevent the White House from trying to distance itself from Flynn after news of his guilty plea became public. Ty Cobb, a personal lawyer for President Trump, described Flynn in a statement on Friday as “a former National Security Advisor at the White House for 25 days during the Trump administration” and “a former Obama administration official,” downplaying Flynn’s close connection to Trump himself.
“The false statements involved mirror the false statements to White House officials which resulted in his resignation in February of this year,” Cobb added. “Nothing about the guilty plea or the charge implicates anyone other than Mr. Flynn. The conclusion of this phase of the Special Counsel’s work demonstrates again that the Special Counsel is moving with all deliberate speed and clears the way for a prompt and reasonable conclusion.”
For Flynn himself, the charges complete a rapid fall from political grace for the retired lieutenant general who served in both Democratic and Republican administrations. His two-year tenure leading the Defense Intelligence Agency under Barack Obama was a rocky one, eventually leading to his departure and retirement from the Army in 2014. He then entered the private sector and founded the Flynn Intel Group, a consulting-and-lobbying firm.
Flynn joined the Trump campaign in February 2016 and soon became a trusted foreign-policy adviser and close political confidante of then-candidate Trump. Both men shared a mistrust of Obama’s counterterrorism policy and approach to confronting ISIS in Iraq and Syria. After Trump secured the Republican nomination, Flynn was among those reportedly being considered for the vice-presidential slot.


When the President of the United States retweets crude anti-Muslim videos posted by Jayda Fransen, a neo-fascist convicted for harassing Muslims on the street, it’s useful to have a secretary of state with a different point of view. And Rex Tillerson, for all his faults, does. Tillerson has declared that, “there’s a great deal that’s misunderstood about the Muslim world” and that “we need to put a lot more effort into understanding one another better.” He’s even ventured that “the president's views” about Islam, perhaps with a nudge from him, “are going to continue to evolve."
But they’re less likely to “evolve”—or be mitigated in any way—if Trump enacts the plan The New York Times describes, in which Tillerson is replaced early next year by CIA Director Mike Pompeo. That’s because Pompeo embraces anti-Muslim bigots, and defames Muslims, with almost as much gusto as Trump himself.
Among Fransen’s closest American analogues are Brigitte Gabriel and Frank Gaffney. Gabriel, who has said a “practicing Muslim, who believes in the teachings of the Koran, cannot be a loyal citizen to the United States of America,” runs ACT for America, an organization that scours textbooks in an effort to eliminate references that equate Islam with Judaism and Christianity, and urges its members to protest the sale of halal food. In 2016, Pompeo won ACT’s “highest honor,” the National Security Eagle Award. Gabriel has called him a “steadfast ally.”
Pompeo is also a steadfast ally of Frank Gaffney, President of the Center for Security Policy, who has argued that adherence to Islamic law—far from being protected by the First Amendment—should be considered “an impermissible act of sedition, which has to be prosecuted.” Pompeo spoke at the Center for Security Policy’s “Defeat Jihad” summit in 2015. And as a member of Congress, he appeared on Gaffney’s radio show over 20 times.
Listen to Pompeo and you hear echoes of Fransen, Gaffney, and Gabriel’s worldview. Like Gaffney and Gabriel, Pompeo repeatedly insinuated that President Obama preferred Islam—and maybe even ISIS—to Christianity and the United States. In a February 2015 interview, Gaffney asked Pompeo whether Obama has “kind of an affinity for, if not the violent beheading and crucifixions and slaying of Christians and all that, but at least for the cause for which these guys are engaged in such activities.” Pompeo’s response: “Frank, every place you stare at the president’s policies and statements, you see what you just described.” That December, a questioner—after accusing Obama of supporting Islamists in Egypt and Iran—told Pompeo, “I can’t think of anything where he’s been on our side.” Pompeo’s answer: “The data you point out is correct and I’m not afraid to talk about the data. The data is very clear. Every time there has been a conflict between the Christian West and the Islamic East the data points all point to a single direction”—to Obama’s disloyalty to Christianity and the United States.
It’s not just Obama. Pompeo has depicted American Muslims as a whole as a fifth column. Two months after the 2013 Boston Marathon Bombing, he went on the House floor to declare that the “silence of Muslim leaders has been deafening.” This “silence,” Pompeo declared, “has made these Islamic leaders across America potentially complicit in these acts” of terrorism. And it “casts doubt upon the commitment to peace among adherents of the Muslim faith.”
In fact, as Huffington Post noted, the Boston bombing had occurred at roughly 2:49 p.m. on April 15: “The Universal Muslim Association of America spoke out against the attacks at 5:17 p.m.; the Muslim Public Affairs Council at 5:53 p.m.; the Council on American-Islamic Relations 7:46 p.m.; the Muslim Peace Coalition 8 p.m. and the Muslim American Society Public Affairs and Engagement 10:52 p.m.;” and “the Islamic Society of North America” at 12:09 a.m. That’s the silence that Pompeo considered so “deafening” that it cast doubt on whether “adherents of the Muslim faith” believe in peace.
Underlying Pompeo’s remarks was the insinuation that Muslims must prove their loyalty to the Christians who have permitted them to reside in the United States. He made that point more explicitly three years later after the Islamic Society of Wichita, which sits in Pompeo’s former district, invited a sheikh named Monzer Talib to speak. Pompeo, with help from the Center for Security Policy, publicly called Talib a supporter of terrorism. (The Islamic Society’s spokesman called that “completely untrue.”) And in the face of reports that armed protesters would besiege the mosque, it cancelled the talk.
But what’s most revealing is the language of Pompeo’s condemnation. He denounced the mosque for inviting Talib to speak “on one of the most holy days on the Christian calendar,” Good Friday, “when millions of Christians commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus Christ.” Pompeo spoke to his Muslim constituents not as a Congressman bound to equally represent people of all faiths but as a partisan of Christianity, whose religious calendar he demanded they respect. The message was the same one Fransen sends when she walks through Muslim neighborhoods with a giant cross: You are guests in our land.
Pompeo’s attack on the Islamic Center of Wichita, and his claim that American Muslim leaders are “potentially complicit” in terrorism, become particularly menacing in the context of his support for designating the Muslim Brotherhood a terrorist organization. Gaffney and Gabriel have both repeatedly claimed that the Brotherhood secretly controls America’s most prominent Muslim organizations and mosques. Pompeo has alluded to that theory himself, arguing that “there are organizations and networks here in the United States tied to radical Islam in deep and fundamental ways. They’re not just in places like Libya and Syria and Iraq, but in places like Coldwater, Kansas, and small towns all throughout America.” Designating the Brotherhood a terrorist organization would provide the legal basis for investigations that could cripple American Muslim civil society and religious life.
Rex Tillerson’s refusal to apply that designation to the Brotherhood made him a Gaffney target. He served as barrier—albeit a weak and porous one—against the president’s wanton, fevered anti-Muslim bigotry. Now, it appears, that barrier may soon be gone.


The New York Times reported that the White House plans to force out Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and replace with him with CIA Director Mike Pompeo. In a reversal, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi called on Representative John Conyers to resign amid sexual-harassment allegations. Senate Republicans unanimously approved a procedural motion to advance their tax bill, but several votes remain before the legislation’s final passage. A fifth woman accused Minnesota Senator Al Franken of groping her. And President Trump donated his third-quarter salary to combat the nation’s opioid crisis.
‘The Phantom Czar’: President Trump has chosen White House counselor and former pollster Kellyanne Conway to be his “opioid czar.” But the Trump administration has no real plan to address the crisis, and there is no opioid office. (David Frum)
Islamophobia 2.0: President Trump’s tweets on Wednesday show that anti-Muslim bigotry no longer needs terrorism as a rationalization. (Peter Beinart)
An 11th-Hour Raid: Ronald Brownstein argues that the Republican tax plan benefits wealthy Baby Boomers most—and leaves the next generation of Americans with the bill.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Ripple Effect: Although it was presented as a straightforward tax cut, the Republican tax plan could end up reshaping American life. (Peter S. Goodman and Patricia Cohen, The New York Times)
What the Bill Doesn’t Do: There are good criticisms to be made of the Republican tax bill, argues Brian Riedl, but instead, many critics continue to make these four misleading arguments. (National Review)
What If America Made a Mistake?: Ezra Klein writes that the consequences of impeaching an “impulsive, conspiratorial, undisciplined, cruel” president might be less significant than leaving him in office. (Vox)
He’s Not Going Quietly: In October, Arizona Senator Jeff Flake announced he would not seek reelection. For the rest of his term, he says he’s happy to be “unchained from the necessities of politics.” (Nash Jenkins, Time)
A Wild West Approach: Politico asked all 535 House and Senate offices about their sexual-harassment policies and received widely different responses. (Elana Schor and Genevieve Glatsky)
Stopping a Bomb: The U.S. has a $40 billion system designed to intercept a nuclear missile from North Korea. Here’s how it works. (Bonnie Berkowitz and Aaron Steckelberg, The Washington Post)
In a recent story in The New York Times, reporter Richard Fausset described the relatively ordinary life of Tony Hovater, a white nationalist living in Ohio, referring to him as “the Nazi sympathizer next door.” Critics argued that the piece didn’t offer context and left white-nationalist ideas unchecked. (In this vein, The Atlantic’s James Hamblin wrote a parody of the story.) Fausset soon followed up with a piece describing his reporting process.
What do you think? Do stories like this normalize people with extreme viewpoints?
Share your response here, and we’ll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)
Note: In yesterday’s newsletter, we included an incorrect link for a Weekly Standard piece by Mark Hemingway. Here’s the right one.


Outside of Washington, the pattern to this wave of sexual-misconduct cases is clear enough: Accusation (or accusations), firing, and then maybe an apology. But within politics, there’s no pattern to follow, as a quartet of examples demonstrate.
Al Franken, John Conyers, Roy Moore, and Joe Barton all stand accused of various sexual indiscretions, but otherwise, save their gender and profession, they share little in common. Even the allegations against them range widely, from the criminal to the creepy to, in Barton’s case, the merely consensual. So far, so do their trajectories post-accusation.
The Eclipse of John Conyers
Begin with Democrat Conyers, who is facing intense pressure to resign. Thursday alone, Speaker Paul Ryan, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, and Representative James Clyburn all called for him to step down. The last two are fellow Democrats, and Clyburn is particularly notable because he was defiantly supportive of Conyers just Wednesday, and is the highest-ranking black Democrat in the House. Conyers, who at 88 is the dean of the House, has himself been quiet, and his lawyer said he entered a hospital last night with stress-related illness.
During a press conference on Thursday, Conyers’s attorney Arnold Reed was defiant. “First of all it is not up to Nancy Pelosi,” Reed said. “Nancy Pelosi did not elect the congressman and she sure as hell won’t be the one to tell the congressman to resign.” Reed may have hurt his client’s cause with his combative remarks, in which he argued that one of Conyers’s accusers was “jumping on the bandwagon” and questioned whether she would have accepted a settlement of some $27,000 if she was treated as badly as she claimed.
Reed also compared Conyers to Franken, the Minnesota Democratic senator who several women have accused of groping or unwanted kisses.
“There are to my count five of these allegations against Al Franken,” Reed said. “There are four, three or four against the congressman. At the end of the day I would suspect that Nancy Pelosi is going to have to explain what is the discernible difference between Al Franken and John Conyers.”
Reed is doing his best to defend his client, but this is not a difficult question. Franken’s alleged behavior is boorish and flatly unacceptable, but—and more on this later—it is possible and necessary to distinguish between different types of sexual harassment and abuse, from illicit groping to multiple accusations of rape, as in Harvey Weinstein’s case. The allegations facing Franken are not the same as the claims against Conyers: years of abuse, propositioning and grabbing employees, and forcing them to speak to him while he wore only his underwear. These allegations are more serious in type as well as in the employee-employer power dynamic. Some listeners also heard in Reed’s remarks a suggestion that Conyers, as an African American, was being treated differently than Franken, who is white.
So far, most national Democrats have not called for Franken to resign, instead getting behind a call for a Senate Ethics Committee investigation. But some Minnesota Democrats have said he should step down, as have Representatives Kathleen Rice of New York and Tim Ryan of Ohio. But with each new accusation against Franken—including a story from an Army veteran who says he groped her on 2003 USO tour and a former elected official who says he tried to give her a “wet, open-mouthed kiss”—his position appears more precarious.
There are other factors potentially at play: After some dithering, Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, has decided to speak forcefully on Conyers, but her Senate counterpart Chuck Schumer has been more reserved on Franken. Conyers, at 88, is also clearly already in the twilight of his career and his is a safe Democratic district; Franken is younger and until a couple weeks ago was viewed as a rising star, and while a Democratic governor would choose his replacement if he resigned, the seat could be closely contested in the long run.
Two Democrats, two different approaches. What about on the Republican side of the aisle?
On Thursday, Representative Joe Barton of Texas announced he would not seek reelection. Barton is embroiled in a strange story. While separated from his wife, from whom he is now divorced, he engaged in consensual sexual relationships with women and also shared nude pictures. Last week, one such picture was circulated online. Embarrassing, sure—but there’s no evidence that Barton did anything legally or ethically wrong, and indeed he may have been the victim of a crime. A recording of him threatening to go to the Capitol Police was also leaked, but again, he was apparently being blackmailed. Even so, Republicans pressured Barton to announce he would not run again, and on Thursday he acceded. Unless he knows something that’s not public, it looks like he’s being punished for being a victim. But Barton is perhaps expendable for party leaders: His seat is comfortably Republican, and he’s had a long career already.
Even as Barton was pressured to bow out for no apparent reason, Roy Moore looks to be back on track to be elected to the Senate from Alabama. Polls since Thanksgiving have shown him retaking a lead from Democrat Doug Jones. The allegations against Moore are more serious than those against any of the other three men. One woman says he brought her to his house when she was 14 and guided her hand to touch his penis over his underwear; another says he offered her a ride home, then locked his car, groped her, and tried to force her head into his crotch. Multiple women have also said he pursued them when they were in their teens, and he is reported to have been banned from a local mall in Gadsden, Alabama, for making girls uncomfortable.
Many top Republicans have said Moore should withdraw from the race and not serve. The Republican National Committee and the GOP’s Senate campaign wing both yanked support for him. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has suggested expelling him if he wins. But Moore remains, for a couple reasons. One is that he is not beholden to the GOP establishment. Another is that President Trump has effectively backed him. (The president may have his own motives: He was infamously recorded bragging about committing sexual assault.)
The strange result is that one Republican is forced out for doing nothing apparently wrong; another seems to be headed for a Senate seat despite allegations of much more serious sins.
Among voters themselves, there is a partisan split on sexual abuse. According to a new NBC News/SurveyMonkey poll, 45 percent of Republicans said they’d support a candidate accused of sexual harassment “if that person had excellent leadership skills and shared their views on issues,” while just 18 percent of Democrats said the same. Two-thirds of Democratic men said the recent revelations had made them reflect on their own behavior and attitudes toward women; roughly the same proportion of Republican men said they had not.
Yet among elected officials in the two parties, it’s hard to draw conclusions. Franken looks safer than Conyers; Barton is out, while Moore’s prospects are rosier. There are many variables here, including the seriousness of the allegations against the men, the amount of leverage their respective parties have on them, and the stage of each one’s career. The electoral repercussions of a resignation for each of them seem to exert an important pull. It’s hard to draw clear conclusions about whether one party is especially better at holding lawmakers accountable than the other. So far, there’s no way to predict the fate of a congressman accused of sexual misbehavior.


On Wednesday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced the Trump administration’s latest actions to combat the surge of deaths from opioid addiction.
They did not add up to big news. An additional $12 million in grants to local law enforcement. An internal restructuring of the Drug Enforcement Agency. An order to the 93 U.S. attorneys to designate one staff member as their office’s opioid coordinator.
The script for the otherwise ho-hum event contained praise for President Trump’s leadership and a thank-you to the senior-most White House aide in attendance. “I want to thank Kellyanne Conway for being here today. The president has made this a top priority for his administration—including every senior official and cabinet member—as her presence here today can attest.”
No news there either. Until Sessions decided to insert an apparently on-the-spot improvisation of his own. Trump, Sessions said off-the-cuff, had detailed Conway “to coordinate and lead the [anti-opioid] effort from the White House.”
Those words did make news. “Trump’s Counselor Kellyanne Conway is now Leading His Opioids Strategy,” headlined Buzzfeed at 5:19 p.m. Other media sources quickly followed: “Conway will oversee opioid epidemic response, Sessions said,” wrote Axios. “Kellyanne Conway is now America’s Opioid Czar,” announced New York.  “Kellyanne Conway chosen as Trump’s ‘opioids czar,” blared the The Washington Examiner.  “Three Things We Know About How Kellyanne Conway Will Handle Being Opioid Czar,” offered Quartz.
The Washington Post, more cautiously, omitted Conway from its headline about the event, but did write in the body of the story: “Kellyanne Conway, one of President Trump’s top advisers, has been tasked with overseeing White House initiatives to combat opioid abuse, Sessions said. She attended the announcement Wednesday, standing off to the side.”
On Thursday, The Daily Caller reported that Conway had told them there is no czar, and that Sessions had been referring to her informal role as the White House’s point person on the crisis.
It would not be a crazy thing for the White House to task an official to coordinate work on the opioid crisis. The tragic surge of fatalities raises issues that cross departmental lines: law enforcement, mental health, Medicaid administration, prescription-drug regulation, and international relations. The harrowing problem also requires close cooperation between the federal government and the states.
Complex portfolios like that have been managed by special offices within the Executive Office of the President since the 1930s. The people who head these offices have been nicknamed “czars” since the early 1970s, when President Nixon tasked former Colorado Governor John Love to run the White House office on energy policy. Under Presidents Nixon, Ford, Carter, Reagan, Bush, Clinton, and Bush, there have been also been “drug czars,” “inflation czars,” and “AIDS czars” among many, many others.
In the past, these czars have been selected for one of two principal reasons: outstanding knowledge of the underlying policy issues or shrewd understanding of the bureaucratic processes of government. President Obama’s first cybersecurity coordinator, Howard Schmidt, had worked for 40 years in the field of information security. He had previously served as chief of information security at Microsoft. He chaired the critical infrastructure protection board for President George W. Bush. Nixon’s drug czar, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, may have lacked such specialized understanding of narcotics enforcement—but no student of government has ever better understood how bureaucracies function or fail to function.
Kellyanne Conway is neither of those things, obviously enough. A pollster before she joined the Trump campaign, she has emerged there as its most brazen and shameless cable-TV talker.
It’s very difficult to imagine what relevant assets Conway could bring to the opioid czar job, even if it existed.
Despite Glenn Beck’s ominous warnings back in the Obama days, when he darkly depicted Obama’s “czars” as lawless all-powerful gauleiters, what matters is the office, not the head. No czarship, no czar.
There is no opioid office within the White House for Conway to head. There is an Office of National Drug Control Policy. Trump has not appointed a director. His first nominee, former Representative Tom Marino, withdrew on October 27 after The Washington Post and 60 Minutes publicized his long career in Congress of working to cripple DEA enforcement against narcotics distributors. The office remains headless all these weeks later, despite Trump’s language of “national emergency.”
The Trump administration has no opioid policy, beyond just continuing to arrest people who violate the (lax) existing drug laws. Throughout, Trump has treated the opioid tragedy as a messaging challenge, not a real-world disaster that calls for a real-world response: pretend to care while doing nothing, because the administration lacks the competence and capacity to do something. The idea that it would seek to appoint as head of the Office of National Drug Control the single member of the House of Representatives who did most to worsen the opioid crisis had a beautiful fitness to it.
So maybe after all Kellyanne Conway would be the right person for the “opioid czar” job. Trump’s concern for opioids is a cruelly deceptive fiction. And who propagates cruelly deceptive fictions more persistently and brazenly than Conway?


Rexmate! The king is dead—or at least out of a job.
That’s according to The New York Times, which says President Trump has decided to remove Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and replace him with CIA Director Mike Pompeo. The timing of the move is newsworthy, but Tillerson’s demise has long been expected, given repeated conflicts between Trump and Tillerson, a loss of faith in the secretary within the halls of the State Department, and Tillerson’s evident dissatisfaction with the job, including reportedly calling the president a “moron.”
Rex Tillerson’s Slow-Motion Exit
The Times reports that Senator Tom Cotton, an Arkansas Republican, is the frontrunner to replace Pompeo.
Assuming the report proves true, it will bring an end to Tillerson’s short, tumultuous, and largely ineffective term, which followed a long and successful career at ExxonMobil. Tillerson was not part of Trump’s campaign team, and never appeared to have an ideology similar to the president’s, but as Jason Zengerle noted in October, Trump was impressed by Tillerson’s mien and asked him to take the secretary job at their first meeting in December. But Tillerson’s term proved a disaster, beset by problems both internal and external.
On the foreign stage, his instincts quickly came into conflict with the president’s. Trump is a brash, impulsive player with little regard for history or fact, while Tillerson is a cautious and process-oriented manager. Trump repeatedly undercut the secretary, on issue after issue. He allowed other members of the administration to contradict Tillerson on dealing with Syria. He dismissed Russian interference in the election, despite Tillerson’s affirmations of it. In a diplomatic standoff between Qatar and Gulf states led by Saudi Arabia, Trump publicly undercut Tillerson’s Qatar-friendly stand. When it emerged that the State Department was speaking to North Korea through a back channel, Trump condescendingly slapped Tillerson down in a tweet:
I told Rex Tillerson, our wonderful Secretary of State, that he is wasting his time trying to negotiate with Little Rocket Man...
The constant interference and Trump’s tendency to create international crises on a weekly basis wore on Tillerson, who multiple outlets confirmed called Trump a “moron” at a meeting over the summer. When the comment was publicly revealed in October, Tillerson refused to confirm or deny it, but insisted things were going well. In fact, the reverse is true. Tillerson will leave Foggy Bottom without a single diplomatic achievement, which means Trump has none either.
Meanwhile, Tillerson was busy losing the confidence of his troops. He’d been greeted with optimism—diplomats hoped that after two high-flying, ambitious secretaries (Hillary Clinton and John Kerry), Tillerson’s managerial talent could bring needed reform. They were quickly disappointed. He was chilly and distant from State Department staff, pushed out several top career diplomats, and failed to defend the department against budget cuts pushed by the White House. He also pursued a drastic reorganization, bringing in outside consultants, and inside expertise bled out. As early as March, my colleague Julia Ioffe was describing a deserted and demoralized State Department. This week, two decorated career diplomats, Nicholas Burns and Ryan Crocker warned in an op-ed that the Trump administration threatens “to dismantle a great foreign service just when we need it most.”
Still, Trump was slow to push Tillerson out, preferring to undercut him at every turn. In part, that is Trump’s style—he seldom actually fires anyone—and in part it reflects that, as an aide told Zengerle, “Losing a chief of staff in the first year is a big deal, but losing a secretary of state is an even bigger one.”
If Trump does choose Pompeo to replace him, it would reflect the president’s preference for shuffling aides around. He replaced Chief of Staff Reince Priebus with Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly; shuffled Dina Powell to the National Security Council; made longtime aide Hope Hicks communications director; and appointed Mick Mulvaney, the head of the Office of Management and Budget to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau on a interim basis.
There are several reasons for this. In Pompeo’s case, it’s much easier to get the Senate to confirm someone to a post if they’ve already been confirmed to another one. It doesn’t require finding new people, nor does it require vetting them, which has been a consistent problem for this White House. It reflects Trump’s deep-seated dislike of novelty. Moreover, it avoids a recruiting problem: So many qualified candidates for the secretary job have either been disqualified by past criticism of Trump or don’t want to work with him. Given the chaos of the administration, the president’s treatment of Tillerson and other Cabinet members, and the looming Russia investigation, it’s much easier to rearrange the deck chairs than to ask someone else to leap aboard a listing ship.
Pompeo, an Army veteran and former U.S. representative from Kansas, has reportedly impressed Trump during his brief time in Langley. But promoting him to Foggy Bottom will require finding a new CIA director. The Times says Tom Cotton is the top choice. Cotton, also an Army veteran and neoconservative, has been an unlikely but staunch ally to the White House, and as a senator would likely sail through the confirmation process. The White House could also safely rely on his seat being filled by a fellow Republican.
Still, a Cotton nomination might be a curious move for Cotton himself. The Arkansan is young and ambitious, with presumed designs on a White House run someday, and he’s been in the Senate for less than three years. Leaving so soon would appear to be a diversion from his path, although one former CIA director—George H.W. Bush—later became president.
Finally removing Tillerson should eliminate some friction from the administration; clearly, neither man is happy working with the other. But it creates a need for two new Senate confirmations at a time when the chamber is already booked up with tax reform and a looming funding crisis. Moreover, while Trump may have more natural chemistry with Pompeo, the biggest problem in American foreign policy today isn’t the nation’s top diplomat but a president who doesn’t think before he speaks and has a penchant for feuding even with America’s closest allies. Replacing the secretary of state just means giving that headache to someone new.


On Wednesday, the Supreme Court heard what could become the most important electronic-privacy case of the 21st century. The justices considered whether the government, without a warrant, can effectively trace our movements in public for months on end by demanding 127 days of the geolocational data—known as cell-site location information—that mobile phones beam out 24 hours a day. During the argument, it was encouraging to see two justices with very different perspectives—Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Neil Gorsuch—make passionate arguments for why allowing these kinds of mass searches of our digital effects would be as invasive and unreasonable as the hated general warrants that helped spark the American Revolution. It’s possible, therefore, that Carpenter v. United States may continue a welcome recent trend: Liberal and conservative justices on the Court, by broad bipartisan margins, are insisting on translating the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution into the digital age.
Justice Elena Kagan framed the stakes in the case by asking Michael Dreeben, the deputy solicitor general, how this case was different from United States v. Jones, a 2012 case where the government tracked a suspect for a month without a warrant by clamping a Global Positioning System device on the bottom of his car. Five justices, led by Justice Antonin Scalia, said that the police violated the suspect’s property rights by committing a physical trespass for the purpose of collecting information—they walked onto his driveway and physically seized his car. But, as Kagan noted, four different justices, led by Justice Samuel Alito said that, even without physical trespass, “society’s expectation has been that law enforcement and others would not, and indeed in the main simply cannot, monitor and catalogue every single movement of an individual’s car for a very long period.” How, Kagan asked, was this case different than Jones?
Dreeben responded that the Jones case involved government surveillance in public, while in this case, the government was seizing business records that individuals had voluntarily turned over to their third-party cellphone carriers, who stored them in the digital cloud. A 1979 case called Smith v. Maryland held that individuals have no expectation of privacy in the telephone numbers they voluntarily surrender to third parties, establishing what is now known as the third-party doctrine.
Kagan was unpersuaded by Dreeben’s attempt to distinguish dragnet surveillance by GPS devices from dragnet surveillance by cellphone tracking. “In both cases, you have reliance on a new technology that allows for 24/7 tracking,” she said. “Now, you’re exactly right, there were different means, but in both cases, you have a new technology that allows for 24/7 tracking and a conclusion by a number of justices in Jones that that was an altogether new and different thing that did intrude on people’s expectations of who would be watching them when.”
At this point, Justice Sonia Sotomayor jumped in. In Jones, Sotomayor wrote an important and prescient analysis of the challenge that confronts the Court as it attempts to translate the Fourth Amendment into a world where our most intimate data is stored not in locked desk drawers, but in the digital cloud. “I for one doubt that people would accept without complaint the warrantless disclosure to the Government of a list of every Web site they had visited in the last week, or month, or year,” she wrote. “I would not assume that all information voluntarily disclosed to some member of the public for a limited purpose is, for that reason alone, disentitled to Fourth Amendment protection.”
Justice Neil Gorsuch
In the Carpenter argument, Sotomayor elaborated on her claim in the Jones case that Americans do not expect the government to reconstruct their movements in public and private by seizing electronic data without good reason. She asked Dreeben, “What do you do with the survey mentioned by your opposing colleague that says that most Americans, I still think, want to avoid Big Brother? They want to avoid the concept that government will be able to see and locate you anywhere you are at any point in time.” Sotomayor added, “Do you really believe that people expect that the government will be able to do that without probable cause and a warrant? The Constitution protects the rights of people to be secure. Isn’t it a fundamental concept, don’t you think, that that would include the government searching for information about your location every second of the day for months and months at a time?”
Throughout the argument, Sotomayor gave concrete and convincing examples of how pervasively Americans use their cellphones and how invasive warrantless cellphone tracking could become. “Why is it not okay, in the way we said about beepers, to plant a beeper in somebody’s bedroom, but it’s okay to get the cellphone records of someone who I—I don’t, but I know that most young people have the phones in the bed with them,” she asked to laughter. “All right? I know people who take phones into public restrooms. They take them with them everywhere. It’s an appendage now for some people. If it’s not okay to put a beeper into someone’s bedroom, why is it okay to use the signals that phone is using from that person’s bedroom, made accessible to law enforcement without probable cause?”
In Jones, Sotomayor had suggested that the Court might have to consider its holding in the Smith case that Americans have no expectation of privacy for large quantities of electronic information. “It may be necessary to reconsider the premise that an individual has no reasonable expectation of privacy in information voluntarily disclosed to third parties,” Sotomayor wrote. “This approach is ill-suited to the digital age, in which people reveal a great deal of information about themselves to third parties in the course of carrying out mundane tasks.”  
The lawyer who argued and won Smith v. Maryland in 1979, Stephen H. Sachs, recently suggested in The Washington Post that Smith has “long outlived its suitability as a precedent” because “when the Supreme Court decided Smith, in the pre-dawn of the digital age, we didn’t know about the Internet, smartphones, cloud computing, Facebook, or Twitter.”
In the Carpenter arguments, however, Sotomayor seemed sympathetic to argument of Timothy Carpenter’s lawyer, Nathan F. Wessler, that the Court could rule for his client without overturning Smith entirely, holding that the government may access 24 hours of geolocational data, for example, but not five-months worth of data. As Sotomayor put it:
From the very beginning, Smith, for example, basically said the disclosure at issue doesn’t disclose the content of the conversation … Yet, we drew a line in saying cellphone numbers, telephone numbers are disclosable because everybody knows that the telephone company is keeping track of those numbers. You get it in your phone bill at the end of each month. … That suggests, as you started to say earlier, that it never was an absolute rule, the third-party doctrine. We limited it when … Ferguson when we said police can’t get your medical records without your consent, even though you’ve disclosed your medical records to doctors at a hospital. … So is it really that far off to say, yes, I can believe that my location at one moment or other moments might be searched by police, but I don’t expect them to track me down for 24 hours over 127 days?
It’s heartening that Sotomayor seem ready to limit the scope of the third-party doctrine in cases where the government is trying to reconstruct the movement of citizens over long periods of time. But her approach might not have satisfied Scalia, who wrote in the Jones GPS case that it was the physical trespass on property rights that made 24/7 GPS tracking impermissible.
That’s why the views of Scalia’s successor, Gorsuch, are so important to the disposition of the case. And Gorsuch was just as passionate about the possible Fourth Amendment violation as Sotomayor, because he detected a potential violation of the property rights of cellphone users in the data they turned over to third parties.
Gorsuch signaled his views at the end of the first half of the argument in this exchange with Carpenter’s lawyer:
Gorsuch: Focusing on the property-based approach, putting aside reasonable expectation for just a moment, what do we know about what state law would say about this information?
So say—say a thief broke into T-Mobile, stole this information and sought to make economic value of it. Would you have a conversion—would your client have a conversion claim, for example, under state law? Have you explored that at all?
When Wessler responded that state courts hadn’t explore the possibility, Gorsuch returned to the theme at length in questioning the government’s lawyer, Michael Dreeben:
Gorsuch: Mr. Dreeben, I’d like to—I’d like to drill down on that and return to Justice Kagan’s question. You know, the facts here wind up looking a lot like Jones.
One thing Jones taught us is—and reminded us, really, is that the property-based approach to privacy also has to be considered, not just the reasonable expectation approach.
So, if we put aside the reasonable expectation approach for just a moment, Katz, Miller, Smith, and ask what is the property right here, let’s say there is a property right. Let’s say I have a property right in the conversion case I posited with your colleague. So that if someone were to steal my location information from T-Mobile, I’d have a conversion claim, for example, against them for the economic value that was stolen. Wouldn’t that, therefore, be a search of my paper or effect under the property-based approach approved and reminded us in Jones?
After Dreeben fought the hypothetical, Gorsuch suggested that federal law had already created a property right in the cellphone data by declaring, in section 222 of the Wireless Communication and Public Safety Act of 1999, that “every telecommunications carrier has a duty to protect the confidentiality of proprietary information of, and relating to … customers.” (For an elaboration of the argument that Gorsuch was invoking, read Richard Re and Will Baude’s posts on the Positive Law Model of the Fourth Amendment.) Gorsuch went on to suggest that the Fourth Amendment might prohibit Congress from violating the property right it had created by allowing the data to be seized without a warrant.
Gorsuch: So—so the government can acknowledge a property right but then strip it of any Fourth Amendment protection. Is that the government’s position?
Dreeben: No, no, but I think that the—­
Gorsuch: And so—so could we also say maybe that they also get this property right subject to having a non-Article III judge decide the case, or quartering of troops in your home? Could we strip your property interests of all constitutional protection?
Dreeben: Well, those are pretty far afield. I—I think what’s going on here—
Gorsuch: But does Congress’s determination also yield in the face of the Fourth Amendment, Mr. Dreeben?
Dreeben: It does not.
Gorsuch: It does not. The Fourth Amendment is trumped by this statute?
Dreeben: But what interests the statute —
Gorsuch: In the government’s—in the government's view. Is that—is that right? The statute trumps the Fourth Amendment?
Dreeben: I think I said the opposite.
Gorsuch: Oh, good. All right. I hoped so.
At this point in the argument, Sotomayor enthusiastically endorsed Gorsuch’s argument that Congress couldn’t trump the Fourth Amendment:
Sotomayor: Isn’t what that Congress did?
Dreeben: No, because Congress provided that it shall be disclosed as required by law. And the same Congress has passed—
Sotomayor: Well, but then we—then you’re begging the question, which is Justice Gorsuch’s question, which is what’s the—what does the law, the Fourth Amendment, require in those circumstances?
Dreeben: So this Court has been …
Sotomayor: You’re saying Congress can set the level of what the Constitution requires, but I don't know that that’s true.
And then Gorsuch clinched the point by comparing the warrantless search of private information to the general warrants that sparked the American Revolution:
Gorsuch: Mr. Dreeben, it seems like your whole argument boils down to if we get it from a third party we’re okay, regardless of property interest, regardless of anything else. But how does that fit with the original understanding of the Constitution and writs of assistance?
You know, John Adams said one of the reasons for the war was the use by the government of third parties to obtain information forced them to help as their snitches and snoops. Why—why isn’t this argument exactly what the framers were concerned about?
Chief Justice Roberts invoked the same eloquent analogy in his unanimous opinion for the Court in Riley v. California in 2014, where he quoted John Adams and compared the warrantless search of a cellphone on arrest to the general warrants that sparked the American Revolution. “Modern cellphones are not just another technological convenience,” Roberts wrote. “With all they contain and all they may reveal, they hold for many Americans “the privacies of life. … The fact that technology now allows an individual to carry such information in his hand does not make the information any less worthy of the protection for which the Founders fought.” In the Carpenter argument, Roberts questioned the government’s argument that we voluntarily turn over private data to cellphone companies and therefore abandon expectations of privacy in the data. “That sounds inconsistent with our decision in Riley,” Roberts noted, “which emphasized that you really don’t have a choice these days if you want to have a cellphone.”
As the oral argument revealed, the Supreme Court could decide the Carpenter case narrowly or broadly, and on a range of theories. The conservative justices might hold, with Gorsuch, that Congress has created a property interest in our geolocational data that the Fourth Amendment prevents it from invading it without a warrant. The more liberal justices might hold that we have an expectation of privacy in electronic data that prohibits the government from tracking us over long periods of time, regardless of whether our property rights are invaded. Some justices might even embrace both theories. It is inspiring, in any event, to see justices as diverse as Gorsuch and Sotomayor providing constitutional leadership about the urgent need to translate the Fourth Amendment into an electronic age. By recognizing our privacy and our property interests in being free from unreasonable searches and seizures of our digital effects, the Court can ensure that Americans in the 21st century have the same freedom to be let alone that inspired the 18th-century Framers to fight the American Revolution and to ratify the Bill of Rights.


When asked by reporters on Wednesday about President Trump’s retweets of anti-Muslim videos, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said, “what the President is talking about is the need for national security, the need for military spending.”
Trump’s Anti-Muslim Political Strategy
Her talking points are out of date. The videos are not about “national security” at all. The first supposedly depicts a Muslim migrant beating up a Dutch boy on crutches. (The assailant may have been neither a migrant nor Muslim). The second supposedly shows a Muslim man destroying a statue of the Virgin Mary. It appears to have been filmed in Syria. The third apparently shows an “Islamist mob” pushing “a teenage boy off a roof.” It comes from Egypt. None involves terrorism against the United States or even Europe. None could have been prevented by more “military spending.”
Sanders is behind the times. Trump’s tweets show that, increasingly, America’s purveyors of anti-Muslim bigotry no longer need terrorism as a rationalization. Islamophobia is finding new justifications, which don’t rely on ISIS or Al Qaeda detonating bombs in London or Chicago. And in that way, it’s embedding itself more deeply in America’s political terrain.
It’s no surprise that Trump may have learned about the videos from Ann Coulter, who has been at the forefront of this Islamophobia 2.0. Her 2016 book, Adios America, which Trump called “a great read,” is filled with descriptions of Muslim depravity. It declares that in Lewiston, Maine, “Somali boys roam the streets physically assaulting the locals.” It includes a section on “Muslim Rape Culture.” And it mocks “Muslim refugees from tribal societies” who are “thunderstruck by indoor plumbing.” It’s only peripherally about terrorism. For Coulter, the problem with letting Muslims enter the United States is not that they commit terrorism. Terrorism is merely a symptom of their deeper hostility to American values, a hostility that expresses itself in a wide variety of ways: from beating up white kids to raping white women to ripping off the welfare state to generally being unsanitary.
Read Breitbart and you’ll find the same, generalized, anti-Muslim sentiment. Breitbart publishes loads of headlines about Muslims, white women, and rape: “Halal Chief: ‘Australian Women Need Muslims to Fertilize Them’” (July 30), “Pakistani Gang’s Rape of White Girls Was Not Racist, Says Sentencing Judge” (September 6), “UK: Books in Islamic Schools Teach Marital Rape and Domestic Violence” (November 28). It serves up articles about Muslims and crime: “Almost Half of Crimes in Berlin Committed by Migrants” (September 25), Muslims and drugs: “German Police: Asylum Seekers Are Taking over Illegal Drug Trade,” (June 26), Muslims not assimilating: “Muslim Immigrants Must Not Assimilate, Says Progressive Ally Linda Sarsour” (July 7), Muslims threatening free speech: “Dodgy Data Islamic Group Demands Google Censor ‘Anti-Muslim’ Results,” (November 6), Muslims hating dogs: “Dogwalker Hospitalised After Attack By Somalian Migrant Who Said ‘Dogs are Unclean’” (July 18), Muslims abusing welfare: “Migrants Who ‘Fled War’ Use Welfare to Holiday in Homelands” (Jan 25) and Muslims discriminating against Christians: “Malaysia Opens Muslim-Only Laundromat to Ensure ‘Purity’ of Clothing” (October 2).
To be sure, Breitbart lavishly covers any terrorist attack involving a Muslim. But its interest in jihadist terrorism is merely a subset of its interest in Muslim depravity. When there are no terrorist attacks, it uncovers horror stories about Muslim Laundromats.
As with Trump’s videos, many of these stories come from Europe. The message is clear: Europe, which once succumbed to Nazis and Communists, is now succumbing to Muslims. America must keep these new barbarians out (and if they’re already here, down) because even if they don’t join ISIS, they’ll violate and defile us in myriad other ways.
Increasingly, the Trumpian right’s anti-Muslim bigotry conforms to the templates established by anti-black racism (Muslims are violent, lazy and a threat to white women) and by previous anti-immigrant scares (Muslims are disloyal and incapable of upholding democratic norms). Coulter often conflates the threat from Muslims and Latinos, both of whom contribute to the “browning of America.”
For years, liberals have argued that the American right’s obsession with terrorism (as opposed to, for instance, gun violence, which kills many more Americans) fuels Islamophobia. But more and more, the causality runs the other way: The American right’s Islamophobia fuels its obsession with terrorism. Thus, in terrorism’s absence, pro-Trump conservatives simply demonize Muslims for other things.
In the years to come, the “war on terror” could conceivably end. But the message of Trump’s retweets is that the assault on American Muslims, sadly, seems likely to go on and on.


Republicans are trying to sell their tax bill based on what can be described as the values of simplification. If you listen to House Speaker Paul Ryan and Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, you’d think they’re asking Americans to sacrifice provisions in the tax code that might benefit some of us, for the collective benefit of a simpler tax code that will benefit all of us—lower rates, simpler and quicker filing, and a system so simple that the well-off would not be able to use complex strategies to avoid paying their share.
The Political Land Mine in the Republican Tax Plan
Unfortunately, even a cursory look at the Republican tax bills reveals that instead of fulfilling the values of simplification, it would simply use simplification as a guise to restructure the tax code to favor the most well-off earners and corporations at the expense of middle-class America and the working poor.  
To have the moral authority to go to the general public with a call for sacrifice in the name of simplification, an administration needs to be able to say, “We had no choice.” It must be able to argue convincingly that it asked those who were most well-off to do their part—or at least ensured not one additional penny went to the top 1 percent which has taken a dramatic share of income gains over recent decades—but that it was still not enough. It has to argue that it could not offer the lower rates and other benefits of simplification unless everyone was willing to give up even compelling tax preferences—that it had no choice.
That’s not what these tax plans would do. A tax plan that’s built on the foundation of a massive net corporate tax cut, a massive pass-through loophole for millionaire investors (the House gives more than $400 billion to business owners making more than $260,000, while Senate version likely gives about half of its benefits to the top 1 percent), and between $83 and $151 billion to estates worth over $11 million per couple is not only regressive and deficit-busting, but lacks the moral authority required to ask working Americans to make any sacrifice.
That is why the effort to sell the House bill rings hollow. The House Republican leadership and the Trump administration are claiming they had no choice but to ask 8.8 million families dealing with excessive medical costs who would lose their deductions under the bill, or the more than 3 million teachers who will lose their deduction for buying supplies for their students, or the struggling rural and urban communities who will be denied the New Markets tax credit, or the millions of students, graduate students, and workers in need of new skills who will lose billions of dollars collectively as graduate school scholarships are taxed and the Lifelong Learning Credit is eliminated to make those sacrifices.
But they did have a choice. If they hadn’t chosen to shelter the handful of the richest estates from any taxation, they could have largely avoided eliminating the important tax benefits to working families mentioned above. This was a choice to help the wealthiest estates over teachers, students, workers, poor neighborhoods and families dealing with exceptional medical costs. It was about the math of that choice—not the values of simplification.
House Republican members facing constituents at town meetings will need to explain to a family making $85,000, with $30,000 of medical costs for a child with Down syndrome or autism, why they had no choice but to vote to deny them over $21,000 in medical deductions, while they saw fit to give as much as $151 billion to a handful of the United States’s very wealthiest families.
Likewise, the Senate bill is being sold as if raising taxes on millions of middle-class and working-poor families were just an inevitable sacrifice required by tax simplification. It is stunning that a modern political party could give itself procedural permission to pass $1.5 trillion in deficit spending and still manage to raise taxes on tens of millions of working families. The Senate plan has been shown by the Congressional Budget Office to negatively impact taxpayers making under $30,000 by 2019 and result in a net transfer of resources away from households making under $40,000 by 2025. According to the Tax Policy Center, it would increase taxes on 87 million households with incomes under $200,000 by 2027—including 66 percent of households with incomes between $50,000 and $75,000.
Those outcomes are not unavoidable consequences of simplification, but the result of conscious choices. President Obama designed two major tax cuts—the Make Work Pay tax credit and later a payroll tax cut—that gave all working families serious relief at a cost below either of the Republican tax plans, without raising a single penny from a single middle-class or working-poor family. The GOP plans could have prevented tax increases on all of these tens of millions of families—and avoided the need to make some middle-class tax cuts temporary—by simply choosing not to deliver a nearly $1 trillion net tax cut to large and well-off pass-through businesses, including well-off passive investors, as well as other significant net tax relief to the top 1 percent of earners—those with incomes over $900,000 in 2027.
Indeed, the corporate tax cut was not only a choice—it was a recent and reckless choice. For most of the last decade even staunch Republican reformers recognized that while the top corporate rate in the U.S. is high relative to that of other developed countries, the average net tax that corporations actually pay is in the middle of the pack. Reform that eliminates corporate tax expenditures and lowers rates could and should be deficit-neutral. Indeed, corporate reform efforts such as those proposed or supported by the Bush administration’s Treasury Department, former Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp, and the Business Roundtable all sought to lower rates no lower than 25 percent while calling for deficit neutrality. As recently as this spring,  Ryan, Brady, and Mitch McConnell all called for overall tax reform that would not increase the deficit. The recent decision to give the corporate sector a major net tax cut was not compelled by the need for simplification. It was instead a decision to bypass the tough decisions required for deficit-neutral reform in favor of caving to corporate lobbyists and donors.
And finally, there is the question of whether this tax plan even leads to meaningful tax simplification. Although it takes away tax benefits that help working families under the guise of simplification, the new GOP pass-through provisions are more like a full-employment act for tax lawyers and accountants: They create an unprecedented incentive for high earners to lower their taxes by organizing as an eligible pass-through or passive pass-through investor. And, as I wrote in an earlier column here, the House and Senate versions would create new complexities and loopholes through their papier-mâché global minimum tax, that could significantly increase the profitability of engaging in complex strategies to permanently avoid taxes through strategies to both shift operations and profits overseas. That’s the opposite of simplification.
The House bill in particular purports to do graduate students and families with excessive health costs a favor by saving them the 45 minutes it might take to fill out an extra form, but which will cost them thousands of dollars, while incentivizing the most affluent taxpayers to pursue elaborate  and market-distorting tax shelters that will save them far more.
Budget and tax plans are all about choices and values. The Republican plans aren’t about the value of simplification—instead, these bills show what Trump and the GOP leadership most value. It’s not America’s hard-pressed working families.


Across the media and entertainment universe, powerful men—as of writing, Garrison Keillor is the latest; as of reading, who even knows?—are being felled quickly after allegations of sexual harassment and sexual abuse.
But inside politics, the repercussions have, so far, been softer. Minnesota Democratic Senator Al Franken, accused of groping several women and giving another an unwanted kiss, has offered a strange mix of contrition and defiance in saying he will stay in office. Roy Moore, the GOP Alabama U.S. Senate candidate, has bounced back in polls after multiple allegations against him that range from the creepy to the criminal. Behind them looms President Trump, who was even recorded boasting about sexual assaults. (Behind him looms Bill Clinton, who escaped impeachment and settled into elder-statesman status.)
It Took Pelosi Three Tries to Get Her Harassment Statement Right
But the case of Representative John Conyers, the otherwise venerable Michigan Democrat, is a particularly complex one. It demonstrates the way that a man’s stature can protect him, and how that stature plays into the backlash against him. It also shows how one generation’s pioneers often end up as the next generation’s impediments to progress.
While rumors of widespread hush-hush settlements in Congress abound, the only one that has been revealed so far is one that Conyers’s office reached with a woman in 2015. Conyers denies any wrongdoing, and has said he did not know about the agreement. This week, a second former staffer came forward with allegations of sexual harassment by Conyers. Another, the ethics expert Melanie Sloan, said she was harassed by Conyers while working for him and was once called into his office while he was wearing only underwear, though she did not characterize her experience as sexual harassment.
This places Conyers in a precarious situation. There are now multiple accusations against him, and they are more serious than those against Franken, who is himself struggling to stay politically alive. Though Conyers stepped down from his post as ranking member of the House Judiciary Committee, he has said he has no intention of resigning, which may or may not say anything, since members usually say this right up until the moment they resign. Conyers was spotted on a flight home to Detroit Tuesday, skipping votes in the House.
Conyers presents a challenge to Democrats: In addition to the plain moral imperative to protect women in the workplace, they face political imperatives in dealing with him. Having long accused the Republican Party of a “war on women,” it’s hard for Democrats to not punish their own wrongdoers. That’s especially true as the party tries to bury Roy Moore. But other Democrats are wary of “unilateral disarmament,” in which they cast out their violators even as Republicans stick with Moore.
And some see Conyers as a special case. He is the dean of the House of Representatives—its longest serving member—and a civil-rights legend. As House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi put it on Meet the Press, “John Conyers is an icon in our country.” Were he simply another backbencher, Conyers might have been banished by now, but he is a towering figure in the Democratic Party. That’s probably one reason that, as my colleague Megan Garber put it, it took Pelosi three tries to come to the right reaction to the Conyers allegation. Several Democrats have now publicly called on Conyers to resign. According to CNN, Pelosi is tacitly supporting a behind-the-scenes effort to get Conyers to resign.
That effort is, per CNN and Politico, driven by members of the Congressional Black Caucus. Just as Conyers’s iconic status has insulated him so far, it’s reportedly also an impetus among CBC members to try to get him to retire. “There is a feeling among some of our members that we need to protect his legacy,” one aide told CNN.
It’s remarkable that members of the CBC are pressuring Conyers, even privately. He is a co-founder of the group, going back to 1971. But their effort indicates the ways that the sexual-harassment scandal and changing generations have upended politics as usual. In 2010, New York Democrat Charlie Rangel, another CBC founding member, was found guilty of 11 violations by the House Ethics Committee and censured. The CBC didn’t try to push Rangel out—in fact, it threatened to eviscerate the Office of Congressional Ethics. (Long ago, Conyers tried to save the career of Adam Clayton Powell, a black congressman accused of various acts of wrongdoing; Powell eventually lost a primary to Rangel.)
But the CBC’s leadership recently shifted to a new generation. The chair at the time of the Rangel censure was Barbara Lee (born in 1946). She was succeeded by Emmanuel Cleaver (1944), Marcia Fudge (1952), and G.K. Butterfield (1947). But the current chair, as of this year, is Cedric Richmond, born in 1973; the first vice chair, Andre Carson, was born in 1974. The other three officers are all somewhat older, but they are also all women.
Neither the CBC nor Richmond has publicly called for Conyers to go, but Richmond released a statement that at the very least does not strongly support Conyers, and could be read to favor his quiet resignation.
“Today, I met with John and we had a very candid conversation about the seriousness of the allegations against him, which he vehemently denies,” Richmond said. “I told him that I agreed with his decision to step down as ranking member of the House Judiciary Committee at this time. I also told him that I encourage and expect him to fully cooperate with the ethics investigation. He said he would.”
In contrast, the CBC elder statesman James Clyburn (born 1940), a South Carolina Democrat, has defiantly backed Conyers.
Conyers’s bona fides as a fighter for black civil rights are not in doubt. But at 88, he is also a relic of an age in which powerful men often got away with mistreating women. (Conyers is showing his age in other ways, too. At a recent House Judiciary Committee hearing, he seemed to have lost a step in his questioning of Attorney General Jeff Sessions.) While he has sometimes supported legislation in defense of women’s rights—Pelosi cited his work on the Violence Against Women Act—his public politics cannot excuse his personal failings.
Conyers would not be the first pioneer of equality in one era who stuck around long enough to be seen as part of the problem in another. The issue of gay rights divided veterans of the African American civil-rights movement, with some, such as Representative John Lewis or Julian Bond, taking a strong pro-LGBT stand and others arguing that the struggle for black rights was not analogous to that of LGBT people.
Changing definitions like this are a normal part of politics; the expansion in LGBT rights over the last decade would have seemed unimaginable to all but a few people just 15 or 20 years ago. Few politicians have the longevity of a Conyers, and so they’re unlikely to still be in office when their modus operandi becomes unacceptable. Sometimes they do stick around, attaining the status of icon. The problem with becoming an icon is it makes you ripe for iconoclasm.


In “Chicken Heart,” the most famous episode of Arch Oboler’s 1930s radio series, “Lights Out,” scientists in Chicago keep a chicken’s heart alive indefinitely—but when a careless lab visitor breaks open the heart’s container, the heart begins to spread … and spread … and spread.
Gay Marriage in the United States, One Year Later
“For some reason I cannot even imagine, this tissue is doubling in size every hour,” one savant tells the authorities. “Do you know what that means? In another hour it will be twice the size it is now, and long before that it will break open the building with the force of its pressure. And then it will be free in the streets—do you hear me, free in the streets! And then those tentacles of protoplasm stretching out to feed on anything they can reach …”
As of this writing, Chicago has not been eaten. But in the last few years, the First Amendment has become a kind of constitutional chicken heart, spreading its tentacles into new areas, growing and growing until it crowds out other areas of the law.
In First Amendment matters, I am not chicken livered—man and boy, as editor and scholar, I have been arguing for free speech, free press, and free exercise for nearly 50 years. But the current Supreme Court has taken to rechristening entire areas of the law as First Amendment territory. The new “First Amendment” is zigzagging through the streets of the law in unpredictable fashion. For example, it protects corporate management’s political use of shareholder funds, without regard to the shareholders’ wishes—even though it will likely soon forbid unions’ use of workers’ fees to support actual collective bargaining. It is destroying any limit, no matter how modest, on concentrated wealth in politics. It now empowers drug salespeople to demand practice information on doctors who’d prefer to keep it private; it limits modest state regulations on the posting of correct retail prices.
Not long ago, a panel of the D.C. Circuit held that cigarette companies had a First Amendment right to refuse to print warning labels on their packs (mercifully reversed by the full appeals court). After the city of Seattle raised its minimum wage, a business group sued, claiming that paying higher wages would leave them less money to spend on advertising, and thus supposedly violate their First Amendment rights. That argument has failed—so far, but it makes about as much sense as some that the Supreme Court has accepted.
More and more government regulations are being devoured by the category of “content-based regulation of speech”—and that that designation will trump any doctrine from any other area of law that might heretofore have applied.
These reflections were sparked by an amicus brief in Masterpiece Cakeshop, Ltd. v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission, the case of the gay wedding cake, which will be heard by the Supreme Court on December 5. The cake shop, and the baker who is a major shareholder, assert that his religious beliefs should allow him to refuse service—in violation of a state civil-rights statute—to a same-sex couple seeking a custom wedding cake.
Readers might be forgiven for thinking that this is the same issue that the court decided three years ago in Hobby Lobby Stores v. Burwell, in which a large for-profit corporation asserted, and partially won, a religious right to defy federal regulations and refuse health-care coverage for contraceptive methods.
But there are important differences. First, Hobby Lobby involved a claim under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, meaning that a future Congress that disagrees with the result could amend the act to reimpose the requirement—while the cake shop wants the court to write an exemption into the Constitution, where it will be untouchable; secondly, Masterpiece Cakeshop involves a claim for exemption not from an employee-benefit regulation but from a civil-rights statute aimed at protecting the rights of the general public; and, third and perhaps most ominously, lawyers for the cake shop are aiming at carving a much bigger hole in government protection of individual rights.
Though they frequently speak of baker Jack Phillips’s personal religious faith, the claim they are advancing is much broader. The cake shop—and Jeff Sessions’s Justice Department—are asking the court to find an exemption from civil-rights statutes as a matter of freedom of speech, not “the free exercise” of religion. If their plea succeeds, anyone who objects to a government equality mandate may be able to claim that serving customers to whom they object is “compelled speech.” That right of exemption—however broad it may become—would extend not just to conscientious individuals but to for-profit corporations.
It is the latter concern that has spurred a group of 34 corporate-law scholars to file an amicus brief warning the court that a free-speech victory for the cake shop has the potential to create serious problems in the area of corporate law. The signatories are mostly, but not all, centrists or progressives—but all study corporate law and governance for a living.
The brief points out that Jack Phillips and Masterpiece Cakeshop are not one and the same. In fact, the cake shop is a for-profit Colorado corporation; though Phillips is the major stockholder, he is legally an employee of the corporation. Neither his religious beliefs, nor his person free-speech rights, should be attributed to that corporation, they argue. “Even in situations in which a single shareholder is dominant, the separation of shareholder from corporation is fundamental,” they write. “Shareholders receive immense benefits in exchange for this separation”—most prominently “limited liability,” meaning that corporate debts can’t be collected from the shareholders themselves, even if the company goes bankrupt. (The “Ltd.” in Masterpiece’s corporate name lets creditors know they can’t collect from Jack Phillips.)
Remember the cake shop is asserting a free-speech right—meaning that any corporation of any size can claim a similar exemption for any reason at all. If obeying civil-rights laws in the provision of a cake constitutes “compelled speech,” then conceptually any corporation can claim similar exemptions from serving any unpopular group they claim to dislike. The only limit on that right is the idea that it covers “expressive activities”—of which baking a cake with a custom inscription is, the cake shop argues, an example. This is supposedly a limited claim; but I can’t for the life of me see how it differs from a claim by a hotel that it should not be required to host public events for, let’s say, interracial or inter-religious marriage, or meetings that permit men and women to mix openly, or almost any other public event that someone might object to. (The Sessions Justice Department assures us that laws against race discrimination—like the Civil Rights Act of 1964—“may survive heightened First Amendment scrutiny.” “May.” It is strangely silent about discrimination by sex. God help us.)
The scholars urge the Court to reserve free-speech/religion claims for situations where “such beliefs [are] organic to the company”—as, for example, a religious publisher or charitable institution—“nor merely projections of dominant shareholders, and not asserted as pretext to gain economic advantage.” Not only will a victory for the free-speech claim open the way for such anti-regulatory claims, the scholars argue, it will make them, when advantageous, all but inevitable:
As a general matter, a corporation will enjoy a competitive advantage in the marketplace if it is exempted from otherwise generally applicable laws and regulations. In this case, Masterpiece Cakeshop is asking to be relieved from a state law its competitors are required to obey. Companies that do not assert constitutionally protected beliefs will find themselves competing at a disadvantage on grounds that have nothing to do with efficiency.
In short, the First Amendment may take another huge step away from being a protection of genuine speech rights and toward being a tool against government regulation. The scholars further warn that it may throw the law of corporate governance into chaos, resulting in “years of proxy fights followed by litigation” over shareholder rights and corporate duties. (I reached out to Alliance Defending Freedom, the conservative law firm representing Phillips, for a response, but was unable, over a week, to arrange an interview.)
Most people on both sides feel sympathy for Jack Phillips (though reciprocal sympathy for Charlie Craig and David Mullins, the engaged couple who were told that a baker did not recognize their marriage as legitimate, seems not as general on the conservative side). But law is not a congeniality or even sincerity contest; it is a process of framing rules that will be applied both to the conscientious and to Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr.’s famous “bad man,” who cares nothing for morality or sincerity but seeks only to avoid penalty and expense.
The First Amendment, Holmes said on another occasion, is designed to create a marketplace of ideas; but increasingly, “free speech” is sending tentacles into the actual marketplace, not as an instrument of freedom and self-government but as a corporate privilege. The result will, in the end, dilute and reduce the proper purpose of the Amendment—to preserve Americans’ right to genuine free expression and an open society.


Give the people less, and make them thank you for it. It’s an odd electoral strategy, but a new study suggests it’s one way to explain the outcome of the 2016 election.
The paper argues that “intentional efforts by Republicans to sabotage the implementation of the health-care law” caused real dissatisfaction among voters. But according to polls, faced with constant media coverage of rising prices, voters responded by supporting Republican politicians who promised to repeal and replace Obamacare. That dynamic, it suggests, could very well have given Donald Trump the presidency. And the same mechanisms could be at play in 2018 and beyond.
The study, posted to the online repository SSRN by the Ohio State University researchers Vladimir Kogan and Thomas Wood, has not yet been published in a peer-reviewed journal, and is unusually provocative and firm in its conclusions. But the paper relies on popular polls like the Kaiser Family Foundation tracking poll, and its broad argument aligns with the conclusions of writers like my colleague Olga Khazan that public opinion about Obamacare and premiums had something to do with Trump’s victory, even as it makes that case more forcefully. “The implementation of Obamacare,” its authors write, “may have indeed cost Hillary Clinton the presidency.”
Kogan and Wood’s paper provides a mechanism to explain that outcome. The authors found that increased coverage under Obamacare was generally associated with support for Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, holding all else equal. But things got more complicated when costs were considered, because as Kogan and Wood write, “premium increases moderated the political impact of exchange enrollment.” At both the county level and the individual-voter level, support for Trump was correlated with increases in premiums among people who self-purchased private plans—both on and off the exchanges—and those on Medicaid. There was not a similar correlation between support for Trump and premium increases among people with employer-sponsored plans.
In places where premiums rose for private-exchange plans, even the people who gained heavily subsidized or free coverage under the new law became more likely to support Trump.
Judging the candidates by their rhetoric, that would seem to make a certain degree of sense. Premiums skyrocketed in many exchange markets over 2015 and 2016, and one of Trump’s most frequent campaign promises was to reduce those premiums by repealing Obamacare.
But rising premiums on the exchanges did not mean that most Americans faced correspondingly large drains on their wallets. Those premiums only applied to people buying plans on the exchanges—the smallest piece of the insurance pie—and even then, some 85 percent of them received subsidies, shielding them from some or all of the increase in costs. That makes it hard to credit the notion that price pressures alone drove voters toward Trump.
The hypothesis put forward by Kogan and Wood is that overzealous and inaccurate coverage of premium increases by media outlets was largely responsible for boosting support for Trump. “Our results suggest that consumers were influenced not by the individual premiums they would have seen when logging in to renew their coverage,” they wrote, “but rather the coverage of the issue in the local press, which focused largely on the non-discounted rates.” The study doesn’t cite specific instances of such coverage. But when Aetna announced it would exit exchanges in 11 states in August of 2016, for example, much of the coverage focused on rising costs, often without specifying just whose premiums were increasing and how that actually affected costs for individual consumers.
If this hypothesis holds, it would confirm the fears of Kaiser Family Foundation president Drew Altman, who wrote in a July 2016 column in The Wall Street Journal that poor reporting about pre-discount premium increases led people to believe that their own out-of-pocket costs were increasing. “People may read news stories on premium increases as validating criticisms they have heard about the ACA,” Altman wrote. Eighty percent of the people in that month’s Kaiser Family Foundation tracking poll had seen reports on premium increases, and over two-thirds of those falsely believed that the increases applied to all plans or just to employer-based coverage. Poll respondents also consistently overestimated premium spikes, mistaking the highs reported for average increases, which in major cities hovered around 10 percent.
The second piece of Kogan and Wood’s argument is that premium increases would likely have been smaller without what they term Republican “sabotage,” and that the sabotage also affected the election independent of information gaps. The first part is almost certainly right. A campaign by Republican legislators to block market-stabilizing provisions and payments to insurers, block all legislation designed to tweak the health-care law, and promise a full repeal of the bill in 2016 almost certainly contributed to market instability in the exchanges and rising premiums.
Additionally, Republican governors have mostly been slow to expand Medicaid coverage to low-income residents of their states or have declined to do so at all, decisions that have both decreased the number of potentially satisfied Clinton voters with new coverage and further destabilized markets and prices. The study finds that had Georgia, Florida, North Carolina, and Wisconsin embraced Medicaid expansion or even pursued slightly less-obstructionist policies, it could very well have tipped those states—and the 2016 election—to Clinton.
The usefulness of such counterfactual analysis is limited. But it does suggest a link between health care and voting that experts have long observed. A series of election studies by Harvard researcher Robert Blendon illustrates that while health care isn’t always a major factor in elections, in the cycles when it does rise to be a top priority for many voters, dissatisfaction with costs is the main driver of their decisions. Notably, it doesn’t really matter if voters’ personal costs have really increased; what matters is that they believe prices are rising.
With those elements in place, the Republican strategy to dismantle Obamacare can appear cunning in retrospect. While there was certainly a substantial natural backlash to the Affordable Care Act, GOP policy appears to have amplified that opposition. The refusal of many Republican governors to expand Medicaid—especially in states with major populations of people of color—kept millions of potential Democratic voters from the aegis of coverage. At the same time, a suite of actions that destabilized the marketplaces helped raise the prices. Then—aided by superficial coverage in the press—Republican candidates in 2016 were able to run a coordinated campaign reinforcing the perception that Obamacare had introduced runaway costs. And they won.
The truth is probably less Machiavellian. Health care is complicated, and in this media landscape misinformation and disinformation thrive and can help candidates, whether intentionally or not. And the Obama administration notably failed to inform millions of citizens about their benefits and rights under its signature program, or to persuade them of that program’s successes, ceding more ground in turn to misinformation.
Where this leaves politicians in 2018 and beyond is an open question. It seems certain rising premiums and misinformation will continue to be features of the political landscape. Republicans appear intent on blocking reforms to Obamacare, and pushing for full repeal, even though those acts serve to destabilize markets.
The question is, with Republicans now in control of Congress and the White House, will voters still trust them to lower costs, or will they assign them responsibility for rising prices?


The baby boom is being evicted from the penthouse of American politics. And on the way out, it has decided to trash the place.
That’s probably the best way to understand the generational implications of the tax legislation Republicans are driving through Congress.
The House and Senate measures shower enormous benefits on households at the top of the economic ladder, a group that by all indications is older and whiter than the population overall. Then it hands the bill for those benefits largely to younger generations, who will pay through more federal debt; less spending on programs that could benefit them; and, eventually, higher taxes.
The Big Blue Losers in the GOP Tax Plans
In that way, the bills would intensify the generational inequity in how Washington allocates resources between the country’s increasingly diverse youthful generations and its predominantly white older population, groups I’ve called “the brown and the gray.” At a moment when political influence is inexorably shifting to the brown, the tax bill represents an 11th hour raid by the wealthiest of the gray.
Republicans’ strength among older whites, particularly those without college degrees and outside major urban areas, has been central to the political gains that gave the GOP unified control of the White House and Congress—and the leverage to advance a tax bill. But the demographic foundation of that political dominance is eroding.
The baby-boom generation, which has voted reliably Republican in recent years, has been the largest generation of eligible voters since 1978. But in 2018, for the first time, slightly more Millennials than baby boomers will be eligible to vote, according to forecasts from the Center for American Progress’s States of Change project. Higher turnout rates among baby boomers will preserve their advantage among actual voters for a while. But sometime around 2024, Millennials will likely surpass them. The post-Millennials, Americans born after 2000 who’ll enter the electorate starting in 2020, will widen the advantage. This generational shift will trigger a profound racial change: While about 80 percent of the baby boom is white, over two-fifths of Millennials and nearly half of the post-Millennials are not.
This transition looms over the tax debate. To fund its benefits for the wealthiest families and business, the GOP congressional plans raise taxes on so many subgroups of Americans that no generation emerges as an unequivocal winner. But the evidence suggests that those who gain the most—top earners, business owners, corporate shareholders—are concentrated among whites in the baby boom and the older members of Generation X. And from several angles, younger generations loom as the plans’ biggest losers. “What’s very clear through all of this is that the group that most pays are the younger people,” Eugene Steuerle, the co-founder of the non-partisan Tax Policy Center, told me.
People in the top income brackets will gain the most from the bills’ cuts in individual tax rates. Data from the Federal Reserve’s Board of Governors show that over one-third of households headed by someone age 45 to 59 earn more than $100,000 annually. Steph Curry and Taylor Swift notwithstanding, that’s true for less than one in 12 adults under 30. Likewise, the share of whites earning that much is roughly double that of African Americans or Hispanics.
People who own corporate stock and/or their own businesses will gain the most from the plans’ cuts in business taxes. Fed data again show that whites are twice as likely as non-whites to own one or the other—and that older adults are more likely to do so than younger people. Overall, the tax bills reward wealth, and wealth accumulates with age: Households headed by people between 55 and 64 years old have an average net worth that’s 15 times that of households headed by people younger than 35, the data show.
While the plans’ benefits flow mostly to older (and whiter) adults, younger (and non-white) Americans will absorb many of their costs. Young people are targeted by some specific components, particularly the House bill’s provisions to tax graduate-student tuition waivers and eliminate the deductibility of student debt. But the bigger risks are structural. Measured as a share of the economy, Washington today is spending nearly the lowest amount ever recorded on the domestic discretionary programs that invest in the productivity of future generations, such as education and advanced scientific research. By adding a projected $1.5 trillion to the federal debt, the tax bills will increase the pressure for further cuts. Compounding the effect, the bills would eliminate the deductibility of state and local income taxes; that will make it more difficult for those jurisdictions to raise revenue at a time when they are already retrenching their investments in education.
One of 21st-century America’s central dynamics is that an increasingly non-white workforce will be funding Social Security and Medicare for a rapidly growing number of white seniors as the baby boomers retire. These bills strip the public treasury exactly as that burden is intensifying—and they do so primarily by enriching some of those same boomers. That will steadily heighten pressure to cut those benefit programs.
Tellingly, though, the “Better Way” budget blueprint House Republicans released last year proposed delaying changes in Medicare until 2024, when almost all of the baby boom has already retired. That would leave younger generations, starting with Generation X, to bear most of any future cutbacks—even as they shoulder the costs for the boomers’ more generous retirement.
Young people will also pay the tax plans’ most direct cost: the interest on that $1.5 trillion in additional federal debt. More debt could benefit younger generations if it’s spent on investments in their futures. But this tax cut will bury younger generations in debt to fund the current consumption of their elders. As I’ve described before, the irony is that older, white America needs more of younger, diverse America to ascend into the middle class so it can generate the tax revenue to support the baby boom’s retirement. Yet with these tax bills, the old are strapping a boulder onto the backs of the young as they attempt that climb.


The PayPal cofounder and billionaire investor Peter Thiel recently withdrew his name from consideration to lead the President’s Intelligence Advisory Board, according to two sources with direct knowledge of what happened.
Thiel informed the White House of his decision earlier this month, said one of the sources. Both spoke on condition of anonymity in order to discuss private conversations.
Asked about Thiel’s withdrawal, his spokesman Jeremiah Hall declined to comment. A White House spokesman did not immediately comment.
Although Thiel told The New York Times in January that he didn’t want a job in the administration, Vanity Fair reported in September that Thiel was in discussions to lead the PIAB, a panel which oversees U.S. intelligence agencies and advises the president. Previous chairs include Brent Scowcroft, under George W. Bush, and Chuck Hagel, who co-chaired the body under Barack Obama. It’s unclear how far the process went before Thiel backed out, though one of the sources said the process for vetting Thiel for a security clearance had begun.
Thiel has been a key backer of President Trump, spending $1.25 million in support of his campaign during the election. He spoke at the Republican National Convention last year, and gave a speech in Washington at the National Press Club in October 2016 laying out the case for Trump, arguing that “what Trump represents isn't crazy and it’s not going away” and that other politicians were merely “rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic.” Thiel joined the transition after the election and his allies can be found throughout the administration, including on the National Security Council and in the Pentagon. His former investment-fund manager Kevin Harrington occupies a senior role on the NSC, and former Palantir official Justin Mikolay works as a top aide to Defense Secretary Jim Mattis. Thiel is an ardent libertarian whose support for Trump has made him stand out among the generally Trump-critical crowd of Silicon Valley executives.  
Though Thiel has remained publicly supportive of Trump, BuzzFeed News reported in August that he had been much more critical in private, telling friends that "there is a 50% chance this whole thing ends in disaster."
As Vanity Fair noted in its story, Thiel’s investments could also pose conflicts of interests if he were to occupy a senior intelligence role. He co-founded the data-mining firm Palantir, which has held contracts with, among others, the Pentagon, the National Security Agency, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Thiel is seeking to buy Gawker.com, the website he effectively helped to kill last year after secretly bankrolling Hulk Hogan’s lawsuit against it, producing a large judgment that bankrupted Gawker.


White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders defended President Trump after he retweeted unverified videos purporting to show Muslims committing acts of violence from an account belonging to a far-right British political group. NBC fired Today host Matt Lauer and Minnesota Public Radio fired host Garrison Keillor amid separate accusations of sexual misconduct. The Trump administration threatened North Korea with additional sanctions after it test-launched another ballistic missile on Tuesday. Donald Trump Jr. has reportedly agreed to meet with the House Intelligence Committee as early as next week to discuss his contacts with Russians during the presidential campaign. And the House passed a bipartisan measure requiring lawmakers to undergo annual anti-harassment training.
‘No Family Is Safe From This Epidemic’: James Winnefeld, the former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shares the story of his son’s struggle with opioid addiction.
He Means It All: Some people have convinced themselves that Donald Trump’s bigotry and hypocrisy are all part of an act, argues David A. Graham. It’s no longer possible to believe that.
A Veteran’s View: In the seventh installment of our series of essays written by veterans, a former Army officer explains how his military service turned him into a supporter of universal health care. (Dominick Tao)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Historically Unpopular: Republicans are close to passing a tax plan, but polls show that their proposed tax cuts are even more unpopular than past tax hikes. (Harry Enten, FiveThirtyEight)
Told You So: The recent cascade of sexual-misconduct allegations reveals a broader truth, writes Mark Hemingway: “that conservatives were right about sex all along.” (The Weekly Standard)*
Changing His Story: Donald Trump apologized after the infamous Access Hollywood tape surfaced last fall. Now, the president is reportedly suggesting that the voice making vulgar comments about women might not be his. (Maggie Haberman and Jonathan Martin, The New York Times)
‘Everybody Hates Jill’: Eve Peyser talks with the Green Party’s Jill Stein about the alleged health effects of Wi-Fi, Russian President Vladimir Putin, and her role in the 2016 presidential election. (Vice)
Getting Past Partisanship: Democrats are guilty of applying a double standard in their reluctance to condemn Representative John Conyers, argues Jonah Goldberg. But there’s a simple solution to this kind of tribal politics. (National Review)
North Korea’s Progress: On Tuesday, the country test-launched a ballistic missile that flew higher and longer than in previous tests. See comparisons here. (Bonnie Berkowitz, Laris Karklis, and Kevin Schaul, The Washington Post)
In a recent story in The New York Times, reporter Richard Fausset described the relatively ordinary life of Tony Hovater, a white nationalist living in Ohio, referring to him as “the Nazi sympathizer next door.” Critics argued that the piece didn’t offer context and left white-nationalist ideas unchecked. (In this vein, The Atlantic’s James Hamblin wrote a parody of the story.) Fausset soon followed up with a piece describing his reporting process.
What do you think? Do stories like this normalize people with extreme viewpoints?
Share your response here, and we’ll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)
* This newsletter originally included an incorrect link for a Weekly Standard piece by Mark Hemingway. We regret the error.


Updated on November 29 at 6:13 p.m. ET
The fate of the Republican tax overhaul is coming down to a confrontation between the Senate’s few remaining deficit hawks and the GOP’s most ardent tax-slashers.
It’s a fight that has been building for months and now centers on a proposal from Senators Bob Corker of Tennessee and James Lankford of Oklahoma for the Republican tax bill to include a provision triggering tax increases if the cuts in the rate for corporations don’t produce promised economic growth. Corker, who has vowed not to support a bill that he viewed as adding to the deficit, provided a decisive vote to advance the $1.4 trillion tax cut out of the Budget Committee on Tuesday only after securing what he said was a “verbal agreement” from GOP leaders that the final legislation would include a fiscal trigger. On Wednesday, all 52 Senate Republicans voted to begin floor debate on the tax bill, which the party hopes to pass by the end of the week. But important changes, including the expected addition of a trigger provision, are still to come, and the GOP’s show of unity in Wednesday’s procedural vote does not necessarily mean final passage will go as smoothly.
With the bill gaining steam, conservative lawmakers and outside activists are now mobilizing in opposition to a fiscal trigger. They warn it’ll prove counterproductive to the GOP’s goal of unleashing business investment and could saddle the nation with an automatic tax hike if the economy takes an unexpected dip. “It’s a bad idea,” said Tim Phillips, the president of Americans for Prosperity, the advocacy group funded by the Koch brothers. “The last thing you’d want to do if there were some kind of economic downturn would be to raise taxes. It also leads to uncertainty for businesses, because you don’t know what your tax rates are going to be from year to year.” In an interview, Andy Roth of the conservative Club for Growth called the proposal “a dumb idea,” and Grover Norquist, the veteran anti-tax activist, slammed it as “a self-fulfilling threat to kill jobs.”
In a sign of just how sensitive the topic has become for Republicans, neither Corker nor Lankford has publicly detailed how their proposal would work—despite the fact that Senate leaders plan to amend and pass their far-reaching bill as early as Thursday. And while conservatives are trying to ensure a trigger stays out of the measure, they aren’t yet threatening to abandon legislation Republicans desperately want to enact. During a meeting of House Republicans on Wednesday morning, according to a senior GOP aide, party leaders urged rank-and-file members not to criticize the emerging Senate bill until after it passes the upper chamber. In exchange, House members were assured they’d have the opportunity to fight for changes in a conference committee to reconcile the two bodies’ competing bills.
Conservative lawmakers in both chambers are instead pushing for a mechanism that would trigger automatic spending cuts rather than tax increases, although that might be even harder to pass through the Senate. And the Senate bill would already set off cuts to Medicare that Congress may quickly try to undo.
Trying to head off a conservative revolt, Lankford has been talking for weeks about a possible trigger with his former colleagues in the House, where he served for four years before moving to the Senate. The Senate plan, like a House bill approved earlier this month, would reduce the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent. Under one proposal floated by Lankford, that rate would rise to 21 percent after five years if the economy doesn’t grow at a fast enough clip.
Some GOP senators are uneasy with even that modest change. “Personally, I don’t support triggers,” Nevada’s Dean Heller said at a Wednesday press conference. Senator Thom Tillis of North Carolina argued that the mere threat of a future tax increase would discourage businesses from taking advantage of the lower taxes to begin with. “The perverse consequence of having a trigger in here could potentially be that we won’t achieve the economic gains that we would otherwise have if the trigger were not,” he said.
For now, the trigger debate isn’t a deal breaker for many Republican senators, who don’t want to jeopardize the broader tax bill over a provision that might not survive the legislative process. Republicans can’t lose more than two of their members and pass the bill. Corker and Lankford have each drawn a hard line on the issue to this point, and Senators Jeff Flake and John McCain of Arizona have voiced similar concerns about the bill. “I don’t want to see this bill destroyed because of a pursuit for perfection,” Senator David Perdue of Georgia said.
The trigger mechanism could run afoul of the Senate’s budget rules, analysts have said, causing the provision to be stripped out before a final vote. Or it could be watered down in negotiations with the House to a point where conservatives don’t see it as an actual threat to their tax cuts. The decision would then swing back to the deficit hawks, who would face tremendous pressure not to topple a landmark Republican bill at the very last moment.
Corker and Lankford have received little support from advocates of fiscal restraint outside of Congress—not to mention Democrats, who already see their proposal as one more “gimmick” in a bill loaded with them. To comply with Senate budget limits, Republicans set most of the tax cuts for individuals to expire even as they promised to extend them later on. “Instead of designing a backstop in case a policy fails, lawmakers should just pass tax legislation that’s fiscally responsible and permanent in the first place,” said Michael Peterson, president of the Peter Peterson Foundation. “They can do that by using reasonable assumptions for economic growth and being realistic about the effects on the budget.”
Given the GOP’s slim Senate majority, Corker, Lankford, Flake, and McCain could use their votes as leverage to demand a trigger in the final bill. But unless and until they do, conservatives have the edge.


The white working class played a key role in Donald Trump’s election and in the election of Republican majorities to the House and Senate, and yet has been all but ignored in the on-going tax-reform debate. With the House bill already passed, and a vote on the Senate bill just around the corner, the window for their voice to be heard is quickly closing.
In 2016, support for Trump surged among whites without college degrees—a constituency that also made up a disproportionate share of the vote for House and Senate Republicans. For many of these voters, their support for Trump was, and continues to be, driven by concerns about the fragility of family life in America. Trump voters, in particular, have registered serious concerns about the number of children being raised in single-parent families and the difficulty of living paycheck to paycheck.
The Melting Republican Opposition to Tax Cuts
These concerns stem in part from what working-class whites are seeing playing out in their communities. The predominantly working-class counties that went from Obama in 2012 to Trump in 2016 had higher rates of family instability than did the counties that usually trend Republican, due in no small part to economic dislocations associated with the new economy, including increased trade with China and Mexico.
This economy has been particularly disastrous for men with less than a four-year college education, a group whose real wages declined between 5 and 25 percent between 1979 and 2010, according to economists David Autor and Melanie Wasserman, even as spells of unemployment have increased. This matters because men are less likely to get and stay married when they are not stably employed in a decent-paying job.
As a result, fewer than half of white working-class adults aged 25 to 60 are living in a first marriage, compared to more than 50 percent of college-educated whites. Only about one in two 14-year-olds in white working-class families are living in an intact, two-parent home, compared to approximately 80 percent of 14-year-olds in white, college-educated homes. These family trends are paralleled by economic trends: Today, the median family income where the household head has a high school degree is $54,600, compared to $114,640 where the head has at least a college degree. As Wilcox noted in When Marriage Disappears, the United States is in danger of “devolving into a separate-and-unequal family regime, where the highly educated and the affluent enjoy strong and stable households and everyone else is consigned to increasingly unstable, unhappy, and unworkable ones.”
It’s a cruel irony, then, that as the most important tax legislation in a generation winds its way through the halls of Congress, the priority has been given to the interests of donor-class families that are clearly flourishing, both financially and in terms of family stability.
To take just one example, the Child Tax Credit—long recognized as a tool for promoting stable families—is finally being increased after losing a quarter of its value to inflation since 2003. Yet instead of better targeting it to struggling working-class households, where an extra thousand dollars per child has been shown to reduce household conflict and improve child and parental mental health, the Senate bill expands the credit dramatically for rich households that were never close to being eligible in the past, including those making as much as $500,000 a year.
Republican leaders in Congress will say that there’s simply no room in the budget to do more for working-class families, most of whom earn too little to owe federal taxes in the first place. But these same families lose roughly 15 cents of every hard-earned dollar to federal payroll taxes, directly diminishing their incentive to work and their ability to put their families on a firmer financial footing. Indeed, as pundits ferociously debate the incidence of the corporate tax on workers (“Is it 70 percent, 20 percent, or something in between?”), virtually no one disputes that workers bear the full burden of payroll taxes. So why are such taxes left out of the conversation?
The truth is that there are ample resources to cut taxes for working families. Congress could, for instance, extend the $2,000 Child Tax Credit to payroll-tax liability, as Senators Marco Rubio and Mike Lee have proposed. This would put markedly more money in the pockets of working-class families who play by the rules and are struggling to realize the American Dream. Moreover, an expanded child tax credit could easily be paid for by cutting the corporate tax rate a mere percentage point or so less than the 15-point corporate-rate cut now being proposed by the Senate. In other words, if we cut corporate taxes to 22 percent, not 20 percent, we could ensure a full payroll-tax refund on the first $26,000 in earnings for a family with two children.
To do so will require Republicans to stand up to their wealthy, corporate donors. But in return, the Republican Party would finally give substance to its Trump-era aspiration to be a party of workers, while making a necessary step toward addressing the social and economic crisis facing American families today.


Early on Wednesday morning, Donald Trump retweeted three graphically anti-Muslim videos—one entitled “Islamist mob pushes teenage boy off roof and beats him to death!,” the second entitled “Muslim Destroys a Statue of Virgin Mary!” and the third entitled “Muslim migrant beats up Dutch boy on crutches!”—posted by British First leader Jayda Fransen, a woman convicted last year by a British court of harassing a woman wearing a hijab.
None of this should come as a surprise. Trump has been associating with anti-Muslim bigots, and parroting their arguments, since before he launched his presidential campaign. In May 2015, a month before he entered the race, Trump journeyed to Iowa to speak at a forum hosted by Frank Gaffney’s Center for Security Policy (CSP), a think tank that specializes in in arguing that devout Muslims cannot be loyal Americans because Islamic law, or Sharia, violates the Constitution. During his speech, Trump mentioned that he had been chatting backstage with “some experts,” one of whom was a woman named Ann who was “so good, she was telling things that you wouldn’t even believe.” Two months earlier, Ann Corcoran had published a CSP report that urged Americans to “speak up against the opening of more mosques in your neighborhoods,” to “say no” to requests for “special Halal food section[s],” and to oppose efforts to require “local government to pay for a Muslim cemetery.” Citing Corcoran, Trump fumed that “if you come from Europe, you’re European, you’ve done great in school, you want to come, you want to come to the United States, you can’t get in, but if you’re Muslim, you can get in.” According to the Huffington Post, Trump would go on to cite “research from the Center for Security Policy dozens of times in press releases and speeches during his presidential campaign.”
Trump Changed His Tone on Islam—Will He Change Strategy?
Then, at a rally in New Hampshire in September, a man told Trump that, “We have a problem in this country; it’s called Muslims,” before asking, “When can we get rid of them?” Trump’s answer: “You know, a lot of people are saying that, and a lot of people are saying that bad things are happening out there. We’re going to be looking at that and plenty of other things.” After a large ISIS terrorist attack in Paris in November, Trump told MSNBC he would “strongly consider” closing certain American mosques. A few days later, at a rally in Alabama, Trump claimed to have seen Muslims in Jersey City celebrating the 9/11 attacks—then kept repeating the charge even after it was debunked.
It went on like this throughout the campaign. In December, after the terrorist attack in San Bernardino, Trump issued a statement demanding “a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what is going on.” The statement cited a bogus poll, commissioned by—you guessed it—the Center for Security Policy, which allegedly showed that a majority of American Muslims want the choice to be governed by Sharia law.
The following February, Trump twice suggested that President Obama preferred Islam to Christianity. He urged American troops to emulate General John Pershing, who—Trump falsely claimed—murdered Muslim Filipino prisoners of war with bullets dipped in pigs’ blood. Trump rounded out the month by holding a “national-security briefing” at Mar a Lago with Brigitte Gabriel, who has declared that “a practicing Muslim who believes the word of the Koran to be the word of Allah, who abides by Islam, who goes to mosque and prays every Friday, who prays five times a day—this practicing Muslim, who believes in the teachings of the Koran, cannot be a loyal citizen to the United States of America.” Gabriel’s organization, ACT for America, protests the sale of halal food and scours textbooks in an effort to eliminate references that equate Islam with Judaism and Christianity.
In March, Trump told CNN that “I think Islam hates us.” In June, he said “there’s no real assimilation” by even “second- and third-generation” Muslim Americans.
Then, last fall, Trump won the presidency, and groups like ACT and the Center for Security Policy gained access to the White House. As his first national-security adviser, Trump chose Lieutenant General Michael Flynn, who sits on ACT for America’s board and who, at an ACT event in August 2016, suggested that Islam should not be able to “protect itself behind what we call freedom of religion” because “I don’t see Islam as a religion. I see it as a political ideology.” As his CIA Director, Trump appointed Mike Pompeo, who in 2016 won ACT’s National Security Eagle Award. For his attorney general, he named Jeff Sessions, who in 2015 won the CSP’s Keeper of the Flame Award. And Trump named as his chief strategist Steve Bannon, who has said Frank Gaffney is doing “God’s work” and in 2015 declared that any mosque that preaches “sedition” should “be shut.”
Given this history, there’s nothing surprising about Trump disseminating the works of Jayda Fransen. The interesting question is why he did it now. The simplest answer is that fear and hatred of Muslims boosts Trump politically. As Nate Silver has noted, Trump was losing ground to Ben Carson in the two months before November 2015, when the attacks in San Bernardino and Paris boosted fears of terrorism to levels unseen since the aftermath of 9/11. Trump responded to those attacks with a flurry of Islamophobia: musing about closing mosques and creating databases of American Muslims, insisting that New Jersey Muslims cheered 9/11, and proposing a Muslim ban, which was popular among Republican primary voters. By mid-December, Silver observed, Trump’s support in 538.com’s “high-sensitivity polling average” had risen eight points. Neither Carson nor any other GOP contender seriously threatened his lead in the national polls again.
Now Trump’s approval rating is stuck below 40 percent. ISIS is losing ground in Iraq and Syria, and thus receding somewhat as a focus of Washington debate. Fewer Americans cite terrorism and immigration—which for Trump supporters are inextricably linked—as their top concern compared with earlier periods this year. So it makes political sense for Trump to take a few minutes in the early morning to stoke rage against the people who during the campaign he repeatedly called “animals.” His decision to retweet Fransen’s videos wasn’t a gaffe. It’s a core part of his strategy for remaining president. And the weaker he grows politically, the more extreme his incitements to anti-Muslim violence will become.


Over the past 24 hours, President Trump has delivered a concentrated dose of misinformation, self-sabotage, hypocrisy, and bigotry that stands out even by the standards of his short and eventful political career.
The president blew up negotiations to fund the government with a tweet attacking Democratic congressional leaders. He retweeted inflammatory and misleading  anti-Islam videos from a bigoted far-right British politician. He joked about presenting a “Fake News Trophy” to media networks. He called attention to Matt Lauer, the NBC host fired on Wednesday for sexual misconduct, despite Trump’s own past admissions of sexual assault. He baselessly implied that NBC host Joe Scarborough, a onetime informal adviser, might have been involved in the death of an intern years ago in Florida. And several outlets reported that the president privately continues to claim preposterous things, including that it wasn’t him on the Access Hollywood tape and that Barack Obama really wasn’t born in the United States.
Trump's Rejection of Observable Reality
It’s unclear what precipitated the meltdown. Trump was having a decent stretch in office, including relatively smooth progress for the GOP tax bill. Taken individually, none of these examples is all that unusual for Trump. His bigotry toward Muslims has been on display for years. He has blown up budget negotiations before. He frequently passes along unverified and false information. His hypocrisy about sexual-harassment allegations is not new. He has a weakness for conspiracy theories.
Taken together, however, they offer yet another display of poor judgment and divisive leadership from the putative leader of the free world, and they again cast doubt on his fitness for his office. They are also further evidence that Trump’s hypocrisy, bigotry, and dishonesty are not an act. He means it all.
On Tuesday, North Korea launched what appears to be its most powerful rocket yet, one it claims is capable of reaching the East Coast of the United States. There’s no time when it’s safe for a nation to have a leader who cannot grapple with reality, but it is especially dangerous at a moment when a nuclear adversary is brandishing ever more powerful rockets at the United States.
The videos that Trump retweeted were from Jayda Fransen, the leader of the far-right political party Britain First. Fransen was convicted last year of harassing a Muslim woman for wearing a hijab. The three videos that Trump retweeted are a mixed bag. The first, labeled, “Islamist mob pushes teenage boy off roof and beats him to death!” depicts an attack by supporters of the deposed Islamist president of Egypt, Mohammed Morsi, on a young man; his killer was later hanged. The second is labeled “Muslim migrant beats up Dutch boy on crutches!” According to Dutch media reports, however, none of the people involved are Muslims. The provenance of the third, labeled “Muslim Destroys a Statue of Virgin Mary!” is unclear; it shows a man crushing a ceramic statue, and has no apparent point beyond inflaming anger at Muslims. The office of British Prime Minister Theresa May condemned Trump for retweeting the videos.
Trump has no hesitations about inflaming anger toward Muslims, and in fact he revels in it. But while some supporters wrote off such behavior as politicking during the campaign, Trump’s persistence now indicates a more deep-seated bigotry. His continued provocations also hurt his cause. His tweets about the “Muslim ban” on immigration have already caused judges to rule against the order in court, and Neal Katyal, a lawyer arguing against the ban, suggested Wednesday that he’ll use the latest tweets against Trump as well.
The president’s willingness to pass along the videos without vetting them, knowing what was in them, or considering their source is the latest example of his unwillingness or inability to separate accurate information from dreck. Trump has at least a double standard on this. On the one hand, he refused to quickly condemn violence by neo-Nazis and white supremacists in Charlottesville, Virginia, in August, saying he needed to first understand what had happened. “I wanted to make sure, unlike most politicians, that what I said was correct, not make a quick statement,” he said. When the alleged villains are Muslims, Trump is not so careful.
Moreover, Trump is spreading misinformation at the same time that he bashes the press for supposedly doing the same. Commenting on the Lauer firing, Trump implicitly accused NBC News Chairman Andy Lack of sexual harassment, without offering any evidence. He also referred to an old, and long-debunked, accusation that Scarborough had been involved in the death of a staffer in his congressional office in Florida in 2001. (That conspiracy theory has been pursued over the years by both the left and the right.)
Fake-news claims aside, hypocrisy also surges through any condemnation Trump offers for sexual harassment, as I’ve noted previously. Even as many powerful men are punished for unacceptable behavior, ranging from the criminal to the creepy, Trump himself has escaped sanction for his own. Not only are there 16 women who have accused him of various degrees of harassment, but Trump himself admitted to sexually harassing women in the infamous Access Hollywood tape revealed in October 2016.
“I just start kissing them. It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t even wait. And when you’re a star, they let you do it. You can do anything,” Trump said. “Grab ’em by the pussy. You can do anything.”
But the president has a new solution to that problem: He’s simply denying that it was him, offering the least plausible defense since Shaggy’s 2000 hit song. The New York Times first reported this over the weekend, and Tuesday night both The Times and The Washington Post added more detail.
“We don’t think that was my voice,” Trump told a senator, according to The Times, which adds, “Since then, Mr. Trump has continued to suggest that the tape that nearly upended his campaign was not actually him, according to three people close to the president.”
This is not the only case where Trump is at odds with plain reality. The Times again:
In recent months, they say, Mr. Trump has used closed-door conversations to question the authenticity of President Barack Obama’s birth certificate. He has also repeatedly claimed that he lost the popular vote last year because of widespread voter fraud, according to advisers and lawmakers.
One senator who listened as the president revived his doubts about Mr. Obama’s birth certificate chuckled on Tuesday as he recalled the conversation. The president, he said, has had a hard time letting go of his claim that Mr. Obama was not born in the United States.
Trump’s insistence on debunked arguments about Obama’s place of birth and about widespread voter fraud were once viewed as political posturing. For his critics, this kind of behavior was demagoguish, immoral, appalling, and divisive. For his defenders, it was perhaps a little boorish, but then again all is fair in politics; besides, they liked his willingness to throw a punch. Either way, the shared assumption for many (though by no means all) observers was that Trump was being disingenuous.
Since then, however, the president has repeatedly demonstrated that he’s not just posturing, and it’s not simply a cynical ploy. Trump isn’t being hypocritical simply for sport or political gain. His bigotry isn’t just an act to win over a certain segment of the population. Of course it wasn’t: Trump has been demonstrating that since he arrived in the news, settling a case alleging that he had kept African Americans out of his apartment buildings, up through his demand to execute the Central Park Five. He isn’t spreading misinformation just to twist the political discourse—though he may be doing that—but because he can’t or won’t assess it. It is not an act.
All of this has been clear to anyone willing to see it for a long time, yet some people have convinced themselves it’s merely an act. That includes the Republican members of Congress who shake their heads but try to ignore the tweets. It includes the senator who chuckles at Trump’s enduring birtherism. And it includes the White House staffers who, according to The Times, are “stunned” to hear their boss denying the Access Hollywood tape. It’s stunning that they’re still stunned.


The pressure on Congress to do something about sexual harassment is mounting. Senator Al Franken’s public apology for grabbing women inappropriately, Congressman John Conyers stepping down from his position on the House Judiciary Committee after reports of confidential sexual-harassment settlements, and the very real possibility that Roy Moore—who faces multiple allegations of sexual molestation and sexual assault—will soon represent Alabama in the Senate have put the issue front and center. And all of these stories are happening under the shadow of a president who has faced multiple accusations of sexual assault and who has displayed very little sympathy for those who are trying to improve this situation.
Some experts predict that as a result of all these stories, as well as the multiple scandals coming out of the private sector, this will be the “Year of the Woman” just as it was in 1992. They anticipate that the fallout from the scandals will be the possibility that large numbers of female candidates will be elected in 2018, greatly increasing the number of women in Congress, who currently only make up a little less than 20 percent of lawmakers. If that happens, the new blood could transform Congress and create a new culture on Capitol Hill. We might be on the cusp of finally having a Congress where all male politicians treat their peers and their staffers with the full respect accorded by the law. The era of the skirt chasers and touchy hands will end.
Or so they hope.
Is Combatting Sexual Abuse Becoming a Partisan Issue?
The last time Congress faced a moment of reckoning like this, it failed to pass strict rules governing sexual harassment that would ensure accountability. That is why we are where we are today. The pattern was one that has played out many times before. In moments when there is great pressure for reform, legislators are often reluctant to go as far in fixing themselves as they are in dealing with other branches of government or with the private sector.
The missed opportunity of the 1990s began in October of 1991, when the Senate confirmation hearings for Clarence Thomas, President George H.W. Bush’s nominee for the Supreme Court, revealed how little sensitivity there was in Congress toward the challenges that women face in the workplace. During the hearings, the news media broke the story that there were allegations that Thomas sexually harassed Anita Hill, an African American law professor at the University of Oklahoma who had worked with Thomas when he headed the Equal Employment Opportunity Office under Ronald Reagan.
Her testimony was shocking. “After a brief discussion of work,” she told the committee, “he would turn the conversation to a discussion of sexual matters. His conversations were very vivid. He spoke about acts that he had seen in pornographic films involving such matters as women having sex with animals and films showing group sex or rape scenes.” What struck many observers was how hard it was for the senators to take her seriously. Wyoming Republican Alan Simpson’s response was to ask: “If what you say this man said to you occurred, why in God’s name when he left his position of power or status or authority over you, and you left it in 1983, why in God’s name would you ever speak to a man like that the rest of your life?” When she tried to explain her concern for her professional future and reminded the senator that this kind of response was not uncommon in cases of harassment, he simply said it was “incredible” to him that they still spoke. Democrats such as Senator Joseph Biden, the chairman of the committee, did not try to bring the hearings under control when Hill came under attack.
The handful of female legislators in the Senate decried the behavior of male colleagues, who constituted 98 percent of the upper chamber. They vowed to change the culture of Congress and worked to recruit a large number of female candidates to run in the 1992 elections. When there were four victorious female candidates (Patty Murray, Carol Mosely Braun, Dianne Feinstein, and Barbara Boxer) in the Senate elections—while Maryland’s Barbara Mikulski won reelection—and a significant surge in the House and in state legislators, the media reported on “The Year of the Woman.”
It was a moment when things should have changed and much did. These female legislators brought a huge number of new issues to the table, and their presence as elected officials had an impact on what kinds of behavior was deemed permissible, certainly in the public settings of committee hearings and the congressional dining hall. The ultimate victory would come in 2007, when Nancy Pelosi became the female first speaker of the House in American history.
Yet when it came to Congress as a workplace, the accomplishments were more limited. The nub of the problem was that, unlike the executive branch, there had not been civil-service protections for jobs on Capitol Hill. Congress has resisted any kind of institutional infringement on its prerogatives based on claims about the constitutional separation of power. Ohio Democratic Senator John Glenn and others called Capitol Hill “The Last Plantation” as a result of these exemptions. His original reference was to the congressional insulation from civil-rights laws, but by the 1990s, he and others were using the term to talk about gender relations as well. The independent management of members’ offices, which has also been a sacrosanct principle, prevented almost any kind of serious centralized oversight of members and their staff. Beneath these constitutional and managerial issues has been the ongoing fear that any type of stringent rules would merely become weapons for politically motivated attacks using employees to smear the reputation of members.
Unexpected momentum to change the status quo came again in 1995 after Republicans took over both chambers of Congress. Although many Republicans had been resistant when there were efforts to pass legislation creating more stringent rules about sexual relations on the Hill, under Speaker Newt Gingrich the GOP decided to take on the issue. Extending civil-rights and workplace-protection laws on the congressional labor force had been one of the promises that Republican candidates had made when telling their supporters that they wanted to transform Capitol Hill.
Republicans were eager to demonstrate that they could take this issue seriously as the party was reeling from a scandal of its own. Oregon Republican Robert Packwood, a champion of women’s rights issues, was found to be guilty of sexual misconduct. News stories and an investigation by the Senate Ethics Committee had provided the public with shocking detail about the senator grabbing women by their hair and reaching down beneath their clothes. With Republicans like Mitch McConnell speaking out about what the committee was finding, there were predictions that the Senate might vote to expel him by a two-thirds vote when the investigation was done.
To demonstrate that they were serious, the Republicans took the issue up as soon as the session started. Within a few weeks, the House and Senate passed the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 by huge bipartisan margins. The new law applied 13 federal labor and anti-discrimination laws to Congress. The legislation established an Office of Compliance, under the control of Congress, to handle employment cases when they arose. The measure enabled the over 30,000 workers on the Hill to make claims in federal court—following mediation and counseling that would be handled through the Office.
Republican Christopher Shays of Connecticut, who co-sponsored the bill, explained, “If a law is right for the private sector, it is right for Congress.” Democratic Senator Joseph Lieberman called it the “Golden Rule” since Congress would do to “ourselves as we have done unto others …” The only dissenting vote came from West Virginia Democrat Robert Byrd, who said that even this went too far in subjecting the legislative branch to external oversight. The proponents reminded Byrd that the Office of Compliance, which would control the process, would prevent that. When President Clinton signed the bill into law, he proclaimed that: “It is about time that Congress lived by the same laws it places on the private sector.”
There were many employees on the Hill who were skeptical that the law would really change anything. The old timers had heard about reform in previous eras, only to see legislators exempt themselves from serious punishment. Eddie Moore, who did janitorial work for the architect of the Capitol, told a New York Times reporter that “Nothing has changed, and nothing is likely to change. This is still Congress.”
He was right. The most important problem with the legislation was that Congress continued to maintain the constitutional barrier to external oversight. By continuing to abide by this principle on these employment issues, it was virtually guaranteed that enforcement would be toothless. The EEOC, for instance, would have no authority to shape how legislators handled sexual harassment. The Office of Compliance, which had a Settlements and Award Fund to pay out settlements, was in fact as much a way for Congress to protect itself as it was a mechanism to protect workers. “Congress, once again, has elected to police itself,” wrote Robert Turner, a conservative legal expert who had advised Senator Robert Griffin.
The second problem was the manner through which the Office of Compliance would handle cases that emerged. The office does not provide anything comparable to the human-resources departments found in private-sector offices. There was to be very little accountability or transparency even when the office paid out settlements to accusers. The new process created a 30-day cooling-off period where they had to continue going to work while being counseled about workplace rights. Then there would be a 15-day waiting period during which to decide whether to bring this to mediation. If the accuser chose mediation, they would be required to sign a non-disclosure agreement. Mediation would last for 30 more days. When that period ended, there would be 30 more days for a “cooling-off” period before a worker could file a formal complaint. At this point in a very long process, a formal settlement, paid for through taxpayer money, required the signature of a nondisclosure agreement. There would be little information about how the process worked or the cases it dealt with. Legislators could be shielded from the public fallout over these incidents.
“It was a system set up in 1995,” California Democrat Jackie Speier recently complained, “to protect the harasser. We say zero tolerance, but I don’t believe that we put our money where our mouths are.” In a 2016 survey by Congressional Quarterly, four out of 10 women reported that they saw sexual harassment as a problem in Congress while one in six had personally been victimized.  
What will Congress do about the current mess? Will this be another Anita Hill moment, where Congress fails to implement effective changes after the heat of the scandals fade? If Congress is going to do more than make promises about a changed “culture,” they need to put into place much a stricter and transparent process for handling these cases that holds legislators accountable.
The Member and Employee Training and Oversight on Congress Act, co-sponsored by Jackie Speier and Senator Kristin Gillibrand, is a good start to addressing these problems by raising awareness through mandatory training and strengthening the process to offer more protection to the accuser. According to The Hill, only 10 percent of women working in Congress even know that the process for dealing with harassment exits.  
The information surrounding financial settlements and the process through which these are resolved need to provide better mechanisms for allowing the press and the public to know what has transpired. Expenses must be accounted for, as they are in the rest of congressional operations.
The process needs to be streamlined so that it is speedier and less cumbersome, creating less time for workers to find themselves subject to threats from the attorneys of members seeking to protect themselves. The kinds of confidentiality agreements required of accusers must be reformed as well. “Because the process is so broken,” one employment lawyer argued in The Washington Post, “people choose to either not engage in the process or, once they engage it, to settle their claims for a fraction of what their claims are worth, because the process is so traumatizing to people. Who would go through all of this and be muzzled for life for three months’ severance if the system wasn’t stacked [against the victim]? I think the answer is: nobody.”
This is also the moment when there needs to be a full-blown legal debate about whether the separation of power really should insulate Congress from these kinds of tightly-enforced workplace rules or whether there is a way for legislators to be regulated by some kind of external or independent body that can make sure rules are enforced. Given that members are subject to criminal prosecution (as was evident with the Abscam scandal), the protections are not as impregnable as often thought.
A change in the “culture” can only go so far.
Rules, regulations, and enforcement are the only mechanisms that can revolutionize what work is like in the House and Senate, and make sure that the kinds of improprieties becoming public on a daily basis finally become a thing of the past.


This is the seventh installment in our series of essays written by veterans. We asked service members to share how their time in uniform shaped their perspectives on American life.
In July, I experienced a flash of panic that only one of America’s 28 million uninsured citizens can truly understand. Life—and my right ankle—took a tough turn. I had broken my leg running in a charity mud race in St. Petersburg, Florida, and for the first time since I’d left the Army the summer before, I didn’t know what to do when I needed to see a doctor. As a soldier, I had health-care providers available at all times to treat my every medical need, at no direct cost to me. As a civilian, I felt suddenly out in the cold.
As the pop of my fibula snapping was still fresh in my ears, my body still caked in mud, I sat in the grass under the event’s medical tent. Leg swollen, with an ice pack melting in the 92-degree heat, I furiously used my phone to consult Google about what to do next—and how much it would cost.
Query: “cost of ER visit”
Google: “$1,233”
Query: “cost of broken leg”
Google: “… typically costs up to $2,500 or more …”
And as my military training had conditioned me to do, I investigated the worst-case scenario.
Query: “cost of ankle surgery”
Google: “… between $9,719 and $17,634 …”
But one final search changed my prospects that day—and my perspective on the health-care debate in the United States.
Query: “cost of VA hospital visit”
I was taken aback: The results suggested I’d pay little to nothing. For me—an honorably discharged veteran of the war in Afghanistan with no disabilities—the total out-of-pocket cost for multiple X-rays, visits to orthopedic specialists, medications, and a knee scooter was just $8 through the Veterans Health Administration medical system.
Finding Your Creative Voice Again After Combat
Prior to that day, I had no idea how deeply my own government, and by extension my fellow Americans, cared for my well-being—that by virtue of my five years of military service, I was given the benefit of affordable health care even after I had stopped wearing a uniform. The vague, hour-long health-benefits briefing I sat through when I left the Army did little to explain how the system actually worked. My service had introduced me, unwittingly, to a lifetime of socialized medicine: care that is paid for with public money and provided by the government. According to the latest available data, 9.4 million people are covered by TRICARE, the membership-restricted, public health-care program for uniformed service members and their families. A further 6 million veterans use Veterans Health Administration services each year, with up to 15 million more eligible.
After my July revelation, I felt a deeper connection to my country. But I also felt very guilty. Before I learned the extent of the services available for most veterans at low or no cost, I was just another uninsured American anxious about a broken bone and the financial disaster that can come with it. While U.S. troops deserve compensation for their unique national service—for the long separations they endure; the long hours they work; and, sometimes, imminent threats to their lives—a thought has stayed with me: Do service members’ sacrifices mean they should be some of the only Americans to have guaranteed care?
There are teachers who work in dangerous neighborhoods to make sure disadvantaged children get an education. There are small-business owners who risk everything—including going without health insurance—to pursue the kind of entrepreneurial dreams that make the country an economic powerhouse. There are wage earners, artists, and single parents who may never get a job with health benefits, but who nonetheless work hard and contribute to the fabric of America.
It makes little sense to me, then, that my service should entitle me to any more or less medical care from my government than any other citizen receives.
In fact, as congressional Republicans have tried, and failed, to repeal and replace Obamacare, I’ve considered whether the alternative floated by Democrats like Bernie Sanders may be better for Americans—and America.
That plan—a single-payer, “Medicare for all” option in which taxpayers contribute to a national health-insurance program—remains something of a third rail in Washington, and it’s opposed by more than a third of the U.S. population. The opposition is, in part, rooted in the economy: It’d necessitate raising taxes or adding significantly to the deficit. And there’s philosophical opposition, too. Some Americans simply don’t think they should have to pay more to ensure coverage for their fellow citizens, while others are wary of how foreign the system would be. Before I enlisted, it never occurred to me that universal health care, let alone socialized medicine in any form, was a desirable option in the United States. Government health care in any form seemed oppressive to me, a limit on my freedom. But I found that, in many ways, the opposite was true. While any type of universal health-care system would have economic consequences, the associated gains—no longer worrying about coverage loss after a job change, for example, or feeling stressed about finding in-network doctors—for me outweigh that burden.
As a 2016 RAND Corporation study suggested, the U.S. government is capable of providing medical care that’s on par or better than many private alternatives. While it is something of a sport both within the military and among veterans to complain about the care they receive—and the system has seen its fair share of problems and failures—surveys show that in recent years, they are happier with their care than civilians with private providers.
Some critics argue that government-run health care is inefficient, pointing to long wait times at veterans’ hospitals. But, again, compared with the private sector, the waits may not be all that bad. If Anthem, Cigna, or another large U.S. health-insurance company were subject to the same level of congressional scrutiny as the military’s systems, I’m not sure they’d fare much better.
The VA is maligned for its failures because, in the eyes of many Americans, it should be held to a high standard as the care provider for men and women who have put their bodies on the line for their country. But the medical needs for which I’ve sought aid through the VA and military systems haven’t been extraordinary—only the cost and access to care have been.
During my Army service, I did my job, lived my life, and didn’t think twice about premiums, deductibles, or annual limits. Treatment was seamless, automatic, and focused on helping me perform my duties as a soldier.
When I broke my thumb while playing in my unit’s annual turkey bowl in South Korea—a decidedly non-mission-essential endeavor—X-rays, physical therapy, and an on-base orthopedic specialist were provided. So was my time off from work to make my appointments: To the Army, soldiers’ return to duty as quickly as possible is so important that they are often reprimanded by superiors if they miss scheduled appointments. A year later, after I’d changed stations to Joint Base Lewis-McChord in Washington state, I sliced open my leg in a hiking accident. After driving myself to the emergency room of Madigan Army Medical Center on base, I limped through the doors, got some stitches, and received easily accessible follow-up treatment. My unit’s embedded physician’s assistant worked out of an on-base clinic three blocks from my motor pool.
The rationale behind this type of care is clear: The Army understands that healthy soldiers are more effective soldiers. A national health-care system that treats all citizens this way may offer similar benefits. Chief among them is what I discovered earlier this year with the help of a Google search, when I realized I could get care when I needed it: a better quality of life.


Democratic leaders Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi pulled out of spending negotiations with President Trump after he tweeted, “I don’t see a deal.” In response, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Speaker Paul Ryan issued a statement saying the Democrats’ “antics” put government operations at risk. The Senate Budget Committee approved the Republican tax bill in a party-line vote, moving the legislation closer to a floor vote later this week. A federal judge sided with the Trump administration and refused to block Mick Mulvaney from continuing as interim director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. And North Korea test-fired another ballistic missile.
‘A Quiet Starvation’: The Trump administration’s attack on the AT&T-Time Warner merger is an attack on the press—and should be a wake-up call for American journalists. (Julia Ioffe)
Proxy War: The dispute over who should lead the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is about more than the agency: It’s a fight over how to fix America’s broken political system. (David A. Graham)
Backfired: In his attempted sting operation against The Washington Post, Rosie Gray and McKay Coppins write that right-wing media darling James O’Keefe “found himself stung” instead.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Is Elizabeth Warren Part Native American?: On Monday, President Trump referred to the Massachusetts senator as “Pocahontas,” mocking her repeated assertion that she is part Native American. Here’s the backstory. (Gregory Krieg, CNN)
Doesn’t Make Sense: Ezra Klein lays out five big problems created by the Senate Republicans’ tax plan—and suggests what the lawmakers could have done differently. (Vox)
The Problem With Unthinking Belief: The new rallying cry to “believe all women” and their allegations of sexual misconduct feels like a justified response to injustice, argues Bari Weiss. But a better mantra would be “Trust but verify.” (The New York Times)
Tracking Without a Warrant: On Wednesday, the U.S. Supreme Court will hear oral arguments in a case dealing with one of the most important questions facing law enforcement in the digital age. (Nina Totenberg, NPR)
The Left Should Do Better: Liberals continue to fight right-wing extremism with name-calling, instead of by countering toxic ideas with good ones, argues Damon Linker. (The Week)
Whip Count: Senate leaders can only afford to lose the support of two Senate Republicans to pass their new tax bill. Here’s where lawmakers stand on the legislation. (Thomas Kaplan and Jasmine C. Lee, The New York Times)
In a recent story in The New York Times, reporter Richard Fausset described the relatively ordinary life of Tony Hovater, a white nationalist living in Ohio, referring to him as “the Nazi sympathizer next door.” Critics argued that the piece didn’t offer context and left white-nationalist ideas unchecked. (In this vein, The Atlantic’s James Hamblin wrote a parody of the story.) Fausset soon followed up with a piece describing his reporting process.
What do you think? Do stories like this normalize people with extreme viewpoints?
Share your response here, and we’ll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


The closer the Senate tax bill gets to a crucial up-or-down vote, the more Republicans are falling in line.
On Tuesday morning, Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee was threatening to oppose the proposal in a key Budget Committee vote because it might explode the deficit. Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin was warning he could do the same if party leaders didn’t address his complaints. By the afternoon, both wavering Republicans had provided the crucial “ayes” to send the $1.4 trillion tax cut to the Senate floor.
Then there was Senator Susan Collins, the Maine moderate who defied her party on each of its attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act and was seen as likely to do so again on taxes. She had recited a litany of concerns with the bill, chief among them a provision scrapping Obamacare’s individual mandate—a change that she warned would cause rising premiums to spike even higher. But by the afternoon, after a party pep talk and a separate side session with President Trump, she, too, was nearing the “yes” column.
The Senate Republican tax overhaul still faces hurdles. Party leaders must keep their verbal commitments to the wavering senators, nail down the support of a few others, and ensure that the changes they’ve promised accord with the Senate’s complex budget rules. But Tuesday was undeniably a day of momentum for Trump and Republican congressional leaders, propelling them closer to enacting their long-sought tax cuts and ending a frustrating legislative slump. The full Senate could vote on the bill by the end of the week after a marathon session of floor debate and amendment votes.
The Republican Tax Bill Might Need an Escape Hatch to Pass
“I think it’s going to pass, and it’s going to be very popular,” Trump said as he met at the White House with House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.
Top Republicans were in whatever-it-takes mode on Tuesday, seemingly offering assurances to senators left and right as Trump met with the party in the Capitol. To win over Collins, the president reportedly said he was open to supporting bipartisan health-care legislation to restore the insurer payments under Obamacare that he cancelled earlier in the fall, along with a separate and potentially far costlier bill aimed at offsetting the impact of repealing the individual mandate.
Senate Republicans are also considering Collins’ push for the chamber’s bill to allow people to deduct up to $10,000 in state and local property taxes, which would bring the proposal in line with the House plan that passed earlier this month and make it easier for the two versions to be reconciled. “She’s had a number of good discussions with the White House, and they are continuing to negotiate in good faith,” a Collins aide told me. “She’s encouraged by the response to her proposals on the property tax deduction and on mitigating the impact of the repeal of the individual mandate.”
Corker told reporters after the party lunch that he had, according to the Washington Post, secured “a verbal agreement” for a trigger mechanism that would force tax rates to rise if the GOP’s rosy revenues projections miss their targets. If it comes together, that pact could also win the votes of Senator James Lankford of Oklahoma along with Senators Jeff Flake of Arizona and Jerry Moran of Kansas, who have all voiced similar concerns about the bill’s impact on the deficit.
Johnson was holding out for a different reason. He has pushed for more generous treatment of “pass-through” businesses like the one he ran in Wisconsin, arguing that the Senate proposal was much more favorable to big corporations. But he chose not to block the bill in the Budget Committee, another signal that a deal is in the offing which could bring along Senator Steve Daines of Montana as well.
Republicans can afford to lose no more than two of their 52 members to pass the tax bill without help from Democrats, none of whom are supporting the measure. But unlike their ill-fated tries on health care, not a single Republican has drawn a hard line against the tax proposal or issued demands that cannot, at least in concept, be met. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky announced on Monday that he would back the tax bill despite his wishes that it would include even deeper cuts. “I don’t think anyone wants to be the one stopping this,” said Andy Roth, vice president of government affairs for Club for Growth, the conservative advocacy group.
In unifying around the tax bill, Republicans are setting aside polls showing it to be unpopular with the public, analyses finding that it benefits the wealthy at the expense of the lower and middle class, and their own acknowledgement that it will dramatically increase the deficit in the short term and likely beyond. But to an even greater degree than during the health care debate, the risk of another high-stakes failure is holding an otherwise divided party together. As Roth told me on Tuesday: “They know that they can’t strike out on this.”


The festering feud at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau certainly wins points for baroque legal maneuverings: There are two people claiming to be the rightful director, a lawsuit in process, two different federal laws at odds, and at least two plausible readings of the statutes.
The dispute between Leandra English, the deputy director appointed at the last minute by outgoing Director Richard Cordray, and the Trump administration, the vagaries of which my colleague Gillian B. White explains, is not just about who will run the agency, or even merely about different philosophies of consumer protection. The fight over the CFPB is a proxy war between two political parties that each believe that the system is broken but have wildly different prescriptions for fixing it.
Monday Morning Drama at Trump's Most Hated Agency
New agencies are not especially common, and the CFPB was one of the signature accomplishments of President Barack Obama, created through the Dodd-Frank financial-regulation bill. In both mission and structure, it reflected the Obama administration’s faith in experts and its wariness about the current political landscape. The idea behind the CFPB was that consumers faced an uneven playing field. In a 2007 article that laid out the case for the agency, Elizabeth Warren—then a professor at Harvard Law School, and now a senator from Massachusetts—wrote, “Some portion of the credit crisis in America is the result of foolishness and profligacy. Some people are in trouble with credit because they simply use too much of it. Others are in trouble because they use credit in dangerous ways.”
However, Warren added, “That is not the whole story. Lenders have deliberately built tricks and traps into some credit products so they can ensnare families in a cycle of high-cost debt.” The agency that she proposed would serve as an equalizer, putting some heft on the side of consumers, who couldn’t be expected to outsmart a system designed to thwart them. To do that, experts would stand in as proxies for consumers.
It wasn’t just that the CFPB’s framers doubted individuals’ ability to parse financial offerings. Given that the institutions the CFPB would limit were politically powerful, its creators also doubted that CFPB could survive a political fight. Even if voters were sufficiently motivated and clued-in to fight an attempt to weaken the agency, the thinking went, it would be yet another unfair fight: They’d be rolled by moneyed donors who have captured Congress and the presidency. The only way to protect the agency, and by extension the consumers, was to insulate the CFPB from interference by keeping those two political actors as far from the agency as possible.
As a result, the Democrat-controlled Congress made it an independent agency, like the Federal Reserve Board or the Federal Election Commission. While its director is appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate, he or she serves a set term and (probably) can’t be fired by the president. Additionally, the CFPB is funded not by Congress, which could decide to close its wallet and starve the agency, but by the Federal Reserve.
There are two predominant, separate objections to the CFPB among conservatives. One is that it serves an unnecessary purpose, that regulation is generally a bad thing, that the CFPB will stifle financial institutions, and that individuals ought to be left to make their own choices. Trump, for example, tweeted, “The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, has been a total disaster as run by the previous Administrations pick. Financial Institutions have been devastated and unable to properly serve the public.” (As Jonathan Chait notes, Trump’s concurrent boasts about the booming Dow appear to contradict his claim.)
The second is that regardless of the substance of what the agency does, the way it is set up—shielded from presidential and congressional oversight—is concerning to anyone who believes that the government in general, and unelected bureaucrats in particular, are prone to abusing their power and the people. “It is not inherently ‘anti-CFPB’ to be appalled by the way the body was established, any more than it is ‘anti-children’ to believe that any legislation aimed at helping minors must pass through both houses and be signed by the president,” argues Charles C.W. Cooke.
As this week has proven, the 2010-era Democrats were correct to suspect that future elected officials would attempt to meddle with the CFPB if given the chance. At the start of his administration, Republicans tried to get Trump to fire Cordray, which might not have been legal, but in any case the president decided to wait for Cordray to leave. Once Cordray announced his departure, Trump appointed Mick Mulvaney, the head of the Office of Management and Budget, to be the interim director of the CFPB in addition to his OMB duties.
The current legal fight will determine just how shielded CFPB is from presidential interference. Trump’s argument is that the Federal Vacancies Act authorizes him to appoint an interim director; his opponents insist the CFPB’s authorizing legislation creates an alternative process that supersedes the Vacancies Act.
Regardless of whether courts side with Trump, Mulvaney is a cynical choice to lead the agency on an interim basis. That’s not just because Mulvaney previously told a House panel, “I don’t like the fact that CFPB exists, I will be perfectly honest with you.” It is also because in choosing a person who is not just an executive-branch appointee but in fact a direct report to the president, Trump is acting to take full presidential control over the CFPB, contravening Congress’s intent in establishing it as an independent agency.
The move reveals a GOP that’s just as pessimistic about the political process as the Democrats were in establishing the agency. No one disputes that Trump has the right to appoint a new director. He could nominate someone for Senate confirmation today, and given that Republicans control the chamber, it’s likely he could find someone who could be confirmed. (Trump has, however, been extremely slow to nominate people for the many vacancies in the executive branch.) The administration could also ask Congress to rewrite the legislation authorizing the CFPB. In fact, it has done so, though that initiative has been on the backburner as the White House continues to seek its first major legislative win.
Why hasn’t Trump simply used these mechanisms to take control of the CFPB, or to eliminate the agency? It’s hard to say. Maybe the White House is behind on vetting replacements; Cordray’s term didn’t expire until next year, though he was widely expected to leave early to run for governor of Ohio. His choice of Mulvaney reflects a pattern in which Trump reshuffles people who are already appointees (like John Kelly). Maybe he’s dubious about the Senate’s ability to confirm an appointee, or maybe he doesn’t think Congress can or will pass the changes he wants to the CFPB. But if that’s true, then the president’s decision to simply bypass the process conveys the same bleak view of standard political processes that characterizes the agency’s establishment.
The fact that neither party sees the political process as effective in resolving these basic issues is worrying; the fact that they might both be right is worse still. That problem will linger long after the question of who’s buying doughnuts for CFPB staffers is resolved.


The conservative provocateur James O’Keefe’s latest stunt is possibly his biggest backfire: He attempted to sting The Washington Post with a fake Roy Moore accuser, but found himself stung, as the Post exposed the scheme in a detailed report on Monday night.
It’s been eight years since O’Keefe’s debut on the national scene. The videos in which he and Hannah Giles posed as a pimp and prostitute to record ACORN employees appearing to advise them on how to break the law made the kind of impact mainstream news organizations dream of. They lead to ACORN shutting down, and made O’Keefe a key figure in the conservative media of the time. While others in the blogosphere or on cable news complained about the left, O’Keefe was out there doing something about it, infiltrating liberal institutions and exposing their corruption.
But it’s been a long eight years. Despite a few big hits along the way, like a recording of an NPR executive making partisan remarks in 2011, O’Keefe’s modus operandi has increasingly shown its flaws. The Washington Post incident is just his most recent own-goal. Last year, O’Keefe’s Project Veritas accidentally left a voicemail for a George Soros group it was trying to sting, laying out its whole plan; there was the 2010 blunder when O’Keefe plotted to embarrass CNN reporter Abbie Boudreau by mock-seducing her on a boat equipped with sex toys; and there was O’Keefe and his colleagues’ arrest in New Orleans in 2010 during an attempted sting of Senator Mary Landrieu.
According to tax filings for Project Veritas, O’Keefe is raising more money than ever; he drew a salary of over $300,000 last year. But Project Veritas feels like a relic from an earlier era in conservative media, like a Glenn Beck chalkboard or a Fox News segment on “Obamaphones.”
Caleb Howe, a longtime conservative blogger and the editor-in-chief of the website RedState, has written optimistically in the past about the potential of "citizen journalism" practiced by conservative activists. But in recent years, he said, Project Veritas has largely failed to live up to its promise.
"I do think after ACORN, the magic went out of this pretty quickly," Howe said. “As I saw the story of this attempted sting,” he added, “I thought to myself that it seems like the only thing being exposed lately is the lack of sophistication on the part of the stingers.”
Howe said that O'Keefe and his compatriots seem to be motivated by a genuine belief that malfeasance and incompetence are so rampant in the American press that any enterprising prankster with a hidden camera can easily expose it. The half-baked nature of Project Veritas's schemes may be rooted in that misconception.
"I have seen people say in all seriousness that the [mainstream media] will repeat any lie about a Republican, no matter how fake or how easily disproved," Howe said. "I just don't think anything is that simple."
Like others who came of age in the conservative blogosphere, Howe said Andrew Breitbart played a key role in popularizing O'Keefe's videos and pushing them into the mainstream conversation. It was Breitbart who published O’Keefe’s initial ACORN stings. Without his "judgment and experience" to guide the projects, Howe said, O'Keefe's sting operations have often had a hasty, incomplete quality to them—"like the rest of the science project after the nerd kid gets a cold and can't finish, and the partner has to turn it in."
“James has committed important acts of journalism,” the conservative writer Ben Shapiro, a former Breitbart News editor, said. “This wasn’t one. It was misbegotten from the outset. Attempting to indirectly discredit alleged sexual-abuse victims by planting a fake story with a news outlet is bad stuff.”
“His track record over the past several years has been increasingly embarrassing,” Dan McLaughlin wrote in National Review on Tuesday. “Even if you set aside the factual integrity of his reports – and there are those on the Right who believe that ‘war by the other side’s rules’ means not worrying about such things – and judge O’Keefe strictly on activist terms by the scalps he collects, he’s been startlingly ineffective for several years now at actually damaging any of his targets.”
O’Keefe’s choice of targets over the years has displayed a less-than-keen understanding of what has news value and what doesn’t.
"O'Keefe has terrible judgment at times, but his news judgment is even worse,” said a former O’Keefe employee who spoke on condition of anonymity to preserve professional relationships. “His sense of what is legitimately of public interest really is as bad as it looks given some of the trash he publishes. It might help with fundraising from the diehard Bannon wing, but pieces like the Clinton Campaign T-Shirt story also badly water down his brand. Earlier high risk/no reward stunts like the attempted Landrieu and Abbie Boudreau debacle nearly finished him before NPR resurrected him. Even Andrew Breitbart was close to cutting ties."
And O’Keefe has not always carefully prepared for his stings, as evidenced by the Washington Post scheme. A simple Google search for Jaime Phillips, the woman who posed as a Roy Moore accuser, would have turned up the GoFundMe she had created to fund her move to New York to become a conservative media operative—a key piece of evidence that the Post used to figure out what was really going on.
"O'Keefe's nature is to fly by the seat of his pants,” the former employee said. “It's astounding how little O'Keefe understands about how real journalists operate, even now. There's real bias and corruption, but it's not as though reporters don't have basic skills."
Part of why O’Keefe’s latest effort stands apart from previous projects is that instead of exposing alleged liberal hypocrisy and corruption as part of a larger goal, the botched Washington Post sting was launched  in the service of defending a candidate. And not just any candidate, but one who has been accused by multiple women of sexual misconduct when they were teenagers and who is deeply unsympathetic even to many allies of O’Keefe’s.
The Washington Post reported that O’Keefe did not answer when asked if he had worked with anyone from the Moore campaign on the scheme, or with any Republican operatives including Steve Bannon, the former White House chief strategist and Breitbart News chairman who is backing Moore.
Breitbart News, the launching pad for O’Keefe’s career, has been relatively circumspect about his latest stunt; as of Monday night, the incident was on the front page but not leading the site, and the headline gave as much credit to the Post as to O’Keefe: “James O’Keefe and Washington Post Bust Each Other.”
“No one at Breitbart News was involved in, or aware of, O’Keefe’s investigation,” editor-at-large Joel Pollak wrote.
A source close to Bannon who spoke on condition of anonymity in order to speak freely said that Bannon and his circle had not known about or been involved in the plot. Asked if the Moore campaign had known or been involved, Moore adviser Dean Young said no.
In response to questions from The Atlantic, O’Keefe directed us to the hidden-camera videos Project Veritas had made of Washington Post employees. And on Tuesday evening, Project Veritas sent out an email to fundraise off of what was by then widely seen as a debacle: “The good news is...we already got our story.”


A legal struggle is unfolding over control of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, sparked by Richard Cordray’s resignation as director last week. Leandra English, the agency’s deputy director (promoted by Cordray) says she’s in charge, but President Trump says that his pick to run the agency, Mick Mulvaney, is the acting director. A federal district judge in Washington, D.C., will adjudicate these claims imminently, leaving Mulvaney or English as the agency’s temporary head—at least until an appeals court weighs in.
On its surface, the struggle for control of the agency is a question of law—or more specifically, a question of which of two laws takes precedence over the other. The Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998 says that the president “may direct” any Senate-confirmed official to head an agency in the event of a vacancy. (Mulvaney qualifies because the Senate voted 51–49 in February to confirm him as director of the Office of Management and Budget.) The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 says that the deputy director of the CFPB becomes “acting Director in the absence or unavailability of the Director.” The question for the courts is whether the Federal Vacancies Reform Act, which gives the president the power of temporary appointment, takes precedence over the Dodd-Frank Act, which seems to imply that the deputy director’s ascension is automatic.
As I’ve written, there’s a good argument that the Dodd-Frank Act yields to the Federal Vacancies Reform Act. But while this statutory dispute is fascinating to law professors like me, whether the CFPB remains a robust champion of consumer interests does not depend on whether Mulvaney or English emerges victorious from this legal battle. Ultimately, the agency’s 1,700-plus employees will do more than any judge to determine the bureau’s fate.
Even if English prevails in court, her tenure as acting director wouldn’t last very long. First, President Trump has the authority to fire her at his whim: The director of the CFPB enjoys what’s called “for-cause” removal protection under the Dodd-Frank Act, which means that the president can remove her only “for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.” But the Dodd-Frank Act does not give for-cause protection to the deputy director, and it does not extend the director’s “for-cause” protection to a deputy serving in the director’s stead.
Second, even if Trump does not fire English, she will only serve until a replacement is appointed by Trump and confirmed by the Senate. With a Republican-controlled Senate that has mostly rubber-stamped Trump’s appointees so far, the confirmation process probably wouldn’t take long. Maybe English could retain the acting-director post for a few more weeks, but it’s a safe bet that she will be out by early 2018.
And in any event, it was always the case that President Trump was going to get to name a new CFPB director. The term of the agency’s outgoing head, Cordray, would have expired in July 2018. Even if it weren’t for Cordray’s premature departure, the president would have had an opportunity in the near future to put a foe of the agency in its top spot.
But by the same token, Mulvaney’s power over the agency as acting director would be seriously constrained even if he wins the court fight. As an initial matter, he remains the director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), which already is a full-time job. While he spent Monday morning at the CFPB headquarters distributing doughnuts to staff, he also has $4 trillion or so in government spending to oversee at his OMB job. And even if he had undivided time to devote to the CFPB, the head of any 1,700-person organization must rely on subordinates to get things done.
Those subordinates are overwhelmingly liberal—more than 99 percent of campaign contributions by CFPB employees since 2011 have gone to Democratic candidates or left-leaning political-action committees. And the very fact that they have chosen to work for the CFPB is a strong indication that they are committed to the agency’s pro-consumer agenda. Moreover, the agency’s employees are generally protected by the federal merit system, making it very difficult for the director to fire them. Endowed with job security and imbued with a sense of mission, these employees will likely continue to go about their business of enforcing the laws on the books.
Indeed, this is exactly what happened at the Environmental Protection Agency after President Reagan installed the archconservative Anne Gorsuch Burford at its helm in 1981. (Yes, that’s Gorsuch as in Neil Gorsuch—the most junior justice on the Supreme Court is her son.) As the political scientist B. Dan Wood has documented, “following the Reagan inauguration, the EPA bureaucracy bucked the administration and used its slack resources to substantially increase surveillance of pollution.” It took about eight months for the Reagan administration to rein in the EPA careerists and bring enforcement activity below the level of the Democratic Carter years. And after Burford was forced out of the EPA in early 1983, enforcement activity once again surged above the Carter administration’s high watermark.
There are, to be sure, several ways in which a CFPB director who is hostile to consumer interests can impede the agency’s efforts. First, the director has control over the agency’s budget, so he can try to starve it of cash—and budget cuts at the CFPB could begin as soon as January. Second, the director could freeze hiring at the agency. Indeed, Mulvaney already has imposed a 30-day hiring stoppage, but even with budget cuts and a hiring freeze, existing employees would hold onto their jobs—and in light of federal merit-system protections, their salaries can’t be slashed. Third, the director can prevent the agency from promulgating new rules. To this end, Mulvaney says that the agency won’t issue any new rules for a month. But it’s not so easy for the director to roll back existing regulations. That generally requires a process of notice and comment, which on average takes about 18 months. The process may last even longer if lower-level agency officials who oppose the new director’s deregulatory agenda drag their feet.
So in the final analysis, it does indeed matter who is head of the CFPB: A director set on deregulation can slow the agency significantly. But it also matters who staffs the agency, because those employees can stymie the director’s efforts to dismantle the bureau. The fight over the acting director title is thus only the first round in what’s likely to be a longer struggle between the Trump administration and the CFPB’s employees over the agency’s direction. At the end of the day, President Trump will get to decide who directs the CFPB, but that director may soon discover that being in charge is not always the same as being in control.


Democrats have tried defeating Donald Trump. They’ve tried to block him, mock him, and persuade him. They’ve even tried to pull one over on him.
Now, they’re trying to shove him aside.
In a spat that began with—what else?—a presidential tweet, Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi are refusing to attend a meeting with Trump at the White House on Tuesday aimed at averting a government shutdown that could begin in 10 days. Their decision to pull out of the bipartisan summit came a little more than two hours after the president berated “Chuck and Nancy” over their opposition to his proposed tax cuts and immigration crackdown. “I don’t see a deal,” Trump predicted.
Given the president’s statement, Schumer and Pelosi didn’t see much point to a get-together they derided as “a show meeting” that won’t produce an agreement. “We don’t have any time to waste in addressing the issues that confront us, so we’re going to continue to negotiate with Republican leaders who may be interested in reaching a bipartisan agreement,” the two Democrats said in a statement. “If the president, who already said earlier this year that ‘our country needs a good shutdown,’ isn’t interested in addressing the difficult year-end agenda, we’ll work with those Republicans who are, as we did in April.”
The Democrats' Luck Runs Out
Schumer and Pelosi were hoping that House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell would join them in thumbing their nose at the president, but to no avail: McConnell quickly replied that he’d still be meeting with Trump on Tuesday.
On the surface, Schumer and Pelosi’s move is a signal to restive Democrats that they won’t be treated as punching bags by the president and that they’ll hold firm on immigration, the issue that seems likeliest to determine whether the federal government will stay open beyond December 8, when funding expires. Democrats, along with a few Republicans, are demanding that any year-end spending bill includes legislation protecting immigrants who could be at risk for deportation following Trump’s decision to end the Obama administration’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.
Trump has said he wants a DACA deal, too, but he’s under intense pressure from conservatives angry at him for bending on the issue in a meeting with Schumer and Pelosi back in September. The president has since backed off the contours of an agreement that would trade enactment of the Dream Act for additional border-security measures; the White House earlier in the fall sent a list of demands that went far beyond what Democrats would be willing to accept, including Trump’s prized border wall and a reduction in legal immigration. There are other issues lawmakers hope to address in a year-end deal as well: Congress still needs to reauthorize the lapsed Children’s Health Insurance Program and decide whether to enact a bipartisan bill to shore up the Affordable Care Act’s insurance markets.
The odds of a shutdown have certainly increased in the last several weeks. After all, Trump did say back in the spring that the country “needs a good shutdown.” And although he did strike a spending deal with “Chuck and Nancy” in September, that brief kumbaya moment probably raised the likelihood of a subsequent confrontation. Trump is undoubtedly sensitive to the perception that he was rolled by the Democrats, and he has only grown more angry at their refusal to bow to his demands on health care and tax cuts.
Yet Schumer and Pelosi’s pitch to leave Trump out of this round of spending talks must be tempting for Ryan and McConnell. The four leaders largely ignored the White House in striking their own agreement in April, and Republicans on Capitol Hill have frequently chafed at Trump’s habit of using his Twitter feed to muddy delicate negotiations. But Ryan and McConnell don’t have much of a choice: They’ve hitched their sails to Trump, and they know that not only is the president’s signature constitutionally necessary (short of a veto override) for a bill to become law, but his support for an agreement drives more Republican votes in Congress than their own.
So on Tuesday, the GOP leaders dutifully sided with the president. “We have important work to do, and Democratic leaders have continually found new excuses not to meet with the administration to discuss these issues,” Ryan and McConnell said in a joint statement. “Democrats are putting government operations, particularly resources for our men and women on the battlefield, at great risk by pulling these antics. There is a meeting at the White House this afternoon, and if Democrats want to reach an agreement, they will be there.”
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, echoed that message in her own statement. “The president’s invitation to the Democrat leaders still stands and he encourages them to put aside their pettiness, stop the political grandstanding, show up, and get to work. These issues are too important,” she said. “If the Democrats believe the American people deserve action on these critical year-end issues as we do, they should attend.”
Democrats still have leverage over Trump in a number of respects. As the party in power, and one that’s associated with antagonism toward government, Republicans have more to lose politically from a shutdown. Their standing in the polls is low as it is, and a fight over spending could delay their top priority of passing a tax bill. Both the president and many GOP leaders have already shown their hand on the question of DACA, giving Democrats another edge in the talks. And most importantly, any spending bill needs 60 votes to defeat a filibuster in the Senate, so Republicans can’t keep the government open alone. But while Schumer and Pelosi may find Trump more of a nuisance than a good-faith negotiator, he’s shown himself to be a president who’s not so easy to ignore.


If James O’Keefe respected the right-wing populists who make up the audience of Project Veritas, a nonprofit he founded to produce undercover videos skewering the left, he would tell them the truth about all of the organizations that he targets.
Instead, Project Veritas operates in bad faith, an attribute it demonstrated again this week in the aftermath of its bungled attempt to trick The Washington Post.
A woman named Jaime T. Phillips approached the newspaper claiming that Republican Roy Moore impregnated her when she was 15, then drove her across state lines from Alabama to Mississippi in order to terminate the pregnancy. She told a Washington Post reporter, Beth Reinhard, that recounting the bygone ordeal made her so upset that she was unable to finish her salad.
The newspaper began to investigate the story.
And they quickly discovered suspicious information that caused them to doubt their source’s veracity, including a GoFundMe page posted some months ago that said, “I’m moving to New York! I’ve accepted a job to work in the conservative media movement to combat the lies and deceipt of the liberal MSM.”
Then, on Monday morning, Washington Post journalists saw their source “walking into the New York offices of Project Veritas, an organization that targets the mainstream news media and left-leaning groups,” the paper reported.
It’s possible to reverse-engineer a plausible account of what happened.
Project Veritas was operating on the premise that The Washington Post wouldn’t exercise due diligence in vetting a young woman accusing a Republican Senate candidate of sexual misconduct—that the paper would report the bogus story in the newspaper, enabling Project Veritas to expose them for spreading a false allegation.
The premise that the newspaper spreads “fake news” is widely held on the populist right. But the premise proved incorrect. Washington Post reporters did not reflexively or opportunistically believe a woman falsely accusing a prominent Republican. They assigned multiple staffers to help vet the story’s credibility. And they were skillful enough at doing so that they discovered their source’s lies.
If Project Veritas was operating in good faith—if it was really trying “to achieve a more moral and ethical society,” as it claims on its website—it would have acknowledged that its initial beliefs about The Washington Post were incorrect, and that the newspaper diligently pursued the truth when put to an undercover test.
Instead, even though the newspaper did the right thing, Project Veritas still cast it as an enemy. Even as the Post was exposing what happened in its pages, James O’Keefe was sending out an email trying to fundraise off of the operation:
Project Veritas Supporter,
This morning as I walked to Project Veritas’ office, I was ambushed by reporters and a camera crew from The Washington Post.
What were they after?
Following months of undercover work within The Washington Post, our investigative journalist embedded within the publication had their cover blown.
This is how undercover work goes. This isn’t the first time that has happened, and it won’t be the last time.
The good news is … we already got our story.
Now our team in a dash to beat The Washington Post to the presses.Can you help us finish this investigation?
A bit later on the email concluded:
… please donate so our team can FULLY follow through on our promise to expose the Establishment Media in 2017 and 2018.
Thank so much for all that you do, and as always … stay tuned.
In Truth,
James O’Keefe
Project Veritas
O’Keefe’s team seems less interested in what’s true than in making the media look bad. If it gathers footage that makes the media look good, apparently, it simply doesn’t release it. In effect, Veritas offers the sort of biased, partial, and politically motivated work they accuse mainstream journalists of producing.
There is perhaps no better illustration of the bad faith that prevails today on the populist right than the actions of O’Keefe as he solicits donations for Project Veritas. And this is not the first time O’Keefe has failed to disclose to his audience that the uncharitable premise of one of his stings was disproved by a target who behaved well, only to be portrayed by O’Keefe as a villain anyway.
O’Keefe still parts credulous supporters from their money in part because the rest of the right-wing media is reluctant to expose his particular con.
It is too close to the con they run.
That’s how hucksters like O’Keefe can fail repeatedly for years and still get rich. According to Lachlan Markay of The Daily Beast, O’Keefe took an eye-popping salary of $317,691 in 2016 for his nonprofit work. Meanwhile, the sorts of mainstream media organizations that O’Keefe tries to undermine are consistently breaking stories about actual abuses of power, including abuses on the left. As O’Keefe was stinging The New York Times, for example, its journalists were taking down Harvey Weinstein, using skills O’Keefe appears not to possess. The best way for Project Veritas to fulfill its stated mission of achieving “a more moral and ethical society” is to shut down and donate its assets to a nonprofit like ProPublica that exposes bad behavior without perpetrating any of its own.


Ever since the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1986 that sexual harassment violates Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, vindicating Mechelle Vinson, a bank teller fired after a higher-up subjected her to years of unwanted sexual aggression, many employers have behaved as if the most important aspect of workplace culture is reducing or eliminating exposure to liability.
That paradigm helped some victims of sexual harassment to recover damages, and it prompted changes that presumably spared others from being victimized.
But its shortcomings and inadequacies have been laid bare by the allegations against Roger Ailes, Harvey Weinstein, and others whose alleged misbehavior was exposed or anonymously described in the #MeToo campaign. “I’ve received somewhere between five and 20 emails every day from women wanting to tell me their experiences: of being groped or leered at or rubbed up against in their workplaces,” Rebecca Traister, one of the most eloquent chroniclers of this outpouring, wrote at The Cut. “They tell me about all kinds of men—actors and publishers; judges and philanthropists; store managers and social-justice advocates; my own colleagues, past and present—who’ve hurt them or someone they know. It happened yesterday or two years ago or 20. Few can speak on the record, but they all want to recount how the events changed their lives, shaped their careers; some wish to confess their guilt for not reporting the behavior and thus endangering those who came after them.”
She went on to describe one inadequacy of the movement and the journalists covering it: “There are also women who do want to go on the record, women who’ve summoned armies of brave colleagues ready to finally out their repellent bosses,” she noted. “To many of them I must say that their guy isn’t well known enough, that the stories are now so plentiful that offenders must meet a certain bar of notoriety, or power, or villainy, before they’re considered newsworthy.”
If #MeToo at its height cannot give a hearing to most victims of serious abuse, or trigger accountability or change in any industry sufficiently removed from the creative class, what happens when it fades from social media, headlines, and public consciousness? Absent a structural change, most employers and human-resources departments of the future are likely to remain inadequate to the problem—a judgment seemingly shared by the anonymous creators of the “Shitty Media Men” list, who sought to formalize the “whisper networks” that have long existed in different industries to warn against abusers outside of  official channels.
Their approach was untenable, as observers quickly realized: The ability to publicly and anonymously accuse others of serious misconduct invites abuses and unjust outcomes, especially if it encompasses people unknown to one another personally—the scale necessary to effect significant reductions in sexual harassment.
Yet a different kind of third-party information sharing may still be possible.
A scholarly article published in 2012 by Ian Ayres and Cait Unkovic defined the challenge: Many are reluctant to be the first person to accuse someone of sexual harassment, in part because the accused “routinely responds by trying to impeach the credibility of the accuser.” Yet first accusations often lead to more accusers coming forward. That’s a dynamic that tends to protect recidivist harassers.
What if a system of “information escrow” existed instead?
We propose the use of an allegation escrow to allow victims to transmit claims information to a trusted intermediary, a centralized escrow agent, who forwards the information to proper authorities if (and only if) certain prespecified conditions are met. The escrow agent would keep harassment allegations confidential, unutilized, and unforwarded until the agent has received a prespecified number of complementary harassment allegations concerning the same accused harasser. For example, if the escrow agreement specified the accumulation of two additional allegations as a triggering event, then the agent would wait until the escrow had received three separate allegations concerning a particular alleged harasser before forwarding the information to specified authorities and initiating a complaint.
A variation on that idea is already being used by the nonprofit organization Callisto, a third-party reporting system for victims of sexual assault on college campuses.
Jessica Ladd, the company’s founder, built Callisto after extensive consultations with students who’d been frustrated by the process of reporting that they were sexually assaulted. It is already being used on campuses including Stanford, the University of Oregon, USC, and Pomona College. It offers three options to students: They can save time-stamped written accounts of a sexual assault; report the allegations electronically to campus authorities or police; or report the assault only if another victim names the same perpetrator.
The intent is to increase reporting rates and identify repeat offenders. Its website states, “15 percent of sexual assault survivors who opted into our matching system have been assaulted by the same perpetrator as another survivor in the system.”
Sooner or later, a similar approach will almost certainly be tested on workplace sexual harassment. Dozens of variations are possible. For example, imagine that a worker in most any industry could choose to report unwanted sexual behavior to a third-party sexual-harassment clearinghouse.
It might permit accusers a number of options:
Carefully designed and administered, a system like that might have stopped alleged serial abusers like Roger Ailes and Harvey Weinstein years ago by giving their victims access to a transformative insight: that they were far from alone. It might offer victims who dread the idea of going to HR but who also fear that others might be harmed if they stay silent an empowering option. Its mere existence would surely be a deterrent to some serial workplace harassers. And it might be a constructive way for well-intentioned people who cluelessly make a colleague (or several) uncomfortable to grasp how their actions affect others, without the need for an awkward confrontation or a formal intervention by management.
There are probably unintended consequences or vulnerabilities to abuse that I’ve failed to anticipate; I may be overestimating benefits or underestimating costs; and there are likely tweaks that would improve even the best of my suggestions.
When I ran them by Lara Stemple, the director of the Health and Human Rights Law Project at UCLA, she liked that my design anticipated low-level abuses and offered a range of responses. “I think there’s a huge issue right now concerning the breadth of definitions,” she said. “Smaller infractions are at risk of being treated like large ones, creating huge amounts of uncertainty that threaten to undermine the legitimacy of new efforts.”
But she also had reservations. “The only worry I have about anonymity would be along the lines of the toxic workplace culture that Amazon reportedly created with its anonymous reporting about co-worker performance,” she added.
Readers will surely think of other shortcomings, either with my specific thoughts, or with “information escrows” more generally. But there’s little question that there’s a pressing need for devising structural reforms to address workplace harassment.
#MeToo has been cathartic for millions who’ve been mistreated; it has prompted overdue, guilty introspection among some who’ve behaved badly; and it has been educational, constructive, and empathy-building for many besides. But as a mechanism for accountability, it relies so heavily on public shaming and stigma that its time horizon is limited, as are the number of victims who can be heard, especially beyond the privileged classes. And it remains extremely vulnerable to excesses and subversion, making abuses and cultural backlash likely.
It is made more vulnerable in part by the standard some of its adherents are suggesting: not Hillary Clinton’s insistence that “every survivor of sexual assault deserves to be heard, believed, and supported,” which is of course true, but the more extreme claim that because false accusations of sexual misconduct are atypical—and they are—everyone who makes an accusation must be believed, not only by their supervisor or the police, but by literally everyone.
That standard is untenable.
It is untenable because the prejudices and impulses that have led to pogroms and lynchings are not gone from humanity, and still put marginalized groups at special risk; because if adopted, the Duke lacrosse team would now be wrongly imprisoned; because when adopted, it caused Rolling Stone to be sued for libel, with an administrator at the University of Virginia among its victims; because if adopted going forward, the most vile political operatives would generate false accusations against senators in states where the governor belongs to a different party; and because even absent excesses of that sort, adherents sympathetic to most accusers, like Lena Dunham, who once tweeted, “Things women do lie about: what they ate for lunch. Things women don’t lie about: rape,” will sometimes be inclined to defend a particular accused person.
The ways Western culture has often treated accusers of sexual misconduct, whether women in the workplace or boys in the Catholic church, is abhorrent and unacceptable. But the flaw in those historical norms wasn’t a reluctance to believe all accusations—rather, it was the tendency to disbelieve almost all of them.
The remedy is not a new norm that will be undermined or discredited if even a single alleged victim is shown to have lied. Such a norm is setting accusers up for certain failure. Perfection is far too much to ask of a population of hundreds of millions.
But there is a new norm that could survive scrutiny and remedy the historic injustice: “Don’t reflexively disbelieve allegations of sexual misconduct or abuse.” Or, “Don’t reflexively disbelieve women accusing men. Every person deserves to have their claims of abuse heard and investigated with due diligence.” Using that norm, The Washington Post has published numerous accurate accusations after verifying their credibility, but did not fall for a trap sprung by a right-wing provocateur who recruited a woman to make a false accusation.
Of course, even that tenable norm will never be embraced with unanimity, as many Donald Trump and Roy Moore supporters are demonstrating every day. But who needs unanimity? If a majority of Americans simply decline to reflexively dismiss sexual-harassment allegations, even as accusers are empowered with an effective information-escrow system, alerting victims to one another’s existence as they decide what comes next, that could be sufficient to hold serial abusers accountable, regardless of any disbelievers who persist.
The approach is at least worthy of further study. Maybe a pilot program is in order. Let’s test information escrows for sexual harassment—in the U.S. Congress.


Republican Senate leaders have sold their proposed tax cuts as a surefire jolt to the economy—one that will eventually refill the nation’s coffers with revenue generated through more jobs and higher wages. But what if it doesn’t?
One of the final pockets of resistance to the GOP plan is coming from senators who have seen firsthand the darker side of those lofty promises. Senators James Lankford of Oklahoma and Jerry Moran of Kansas have each raised concerns in recent days about the budgetary impact of the chamber’s tax bill, citing the experiences of their states as cautionary tales. Both Kansas and Oklahoma have had to close large budget deficits years after slashing taxes, forcing state governments to cut back on programs and services and prompting voter backlash at the polls.
Opposition from Lankford and Moran would likely derail the GOP’s hopes of passing the Senate bill by the end of the week. With all Democrats expected to oppose the plan, Republicans need votes from 50 out of their 52 members, and several others have either raised different objections or have yet to commit to backing the bill. Senators Ron Johnson of Wisconsin and Steve Daines of Montana, for example, are opposing the current version on the grounds that its benefits are too skewed toward corporations rather than small businesses. The Senate Budget Committee is expected to vote on the measure on Tuesday afternoon, and a vote to open debate on the floor could follow soon after.
Lankford said on Monday he wants the legislation to include some sort of “backstop” that would trigger an increase in tax rates if federal revenues fall short of projections in the next few years. “To me, the big issue is, how are we dealing with the debt and deficit? Do we have realistic numbers, and is there a backstop in the process just in case we don’t?” he told reporters at the Capitol. Republicans are relying on projections that their proposed cuts to the corporate and individual income-tax rates will boost economic growth by 0.4 percent a year. They believe that would offset the $1.5 trillion the bill would otherwise add to the debt.
But other fiscal analysts have disputed that forecast. The hawkish Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget predicts the GOP tax proposals will generate no more than 0.1 percent in annual economic growth—a difference that would amount to hundreds of billions in lost federal revenue. And in Oklahoma and Kansas, similarly rosy predictions never panned out, whether because the tax cuts were not as effective as Republican legislators believed they would be, or because a drop in oil-and-gas prices hammered the states’ economies.
“I think it’s important that we learn some of those lessons that we’ve seen in states and to be able to put into place, at the beginning, a backstop procedure to make sure that we’re guarding against this,” Lankford said.
The Kansas legislature, aided by a coalition of newly-elected moderate Republicans and Democrats, earlier this year actually rolled back the steep tax cuts enacted in 2011 and 2012 under conservative Governor Sam Brownback. Some of those GOP legislators have urged their counterparts in Congress to heed their example. The state’s House delegation ignored those warnings in voting to pass the GOP tax plan earlier this month. But Moran suggested he’d listened to their concerns during a town hall he held in Kansas over the weekend. “I’m also cognizant of what people saw happen in Kansas,” Moran said, according to the Topeka Capital-Journal. “The issue of tax cuts would be easier if you actually had faith that Congress would hold the line on spending. It’s two components. It’s how much revenue you take in and how much money you continue to spend.” While Republicans ultimately want to cut the size of government, Congress is likelier to increase spending during a year-end appropriations deal to accommodate President Trump’s demand for more money for the military.
Lankford did not specify his requested changes, and a spokesman for the senator said he was “not ready to talk about his proposal in detail.” The Senate bill already includes revenue triggers for certain, smaller provisions. But setting up additional possible tax increases would be complicated for a number of reasons, said Scott Greenberg, a senior analyst with the Tax Foundation. For one, if revenues fall off in the next few years, it could be a sign that the economy is in recession, and tax increases would likely slow the economy even further. And a trigger could be “self-fulfilling,” Senator Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania told Bloomberg: The mere possibility that taxes could go up in a few years could cause businesses not to make investments they would make if the new rates were sure to stay in place; that’s a major reason why Senate Republicans set their individual tax cuts to expire and made the corporate-rate cuts permanent.
While a number of states have used revenue thresholds to trigger tax cuts in the future, Greenberg told me he was not aware of triggers being used to reverse tax cuts that were already in place. Nor is it clear, he said, that Lankford’s idea would comply with the Senate’s strict rules requiring that the tax legislation deal only with spending and revenue in order to pass with a simple majority instead of a filibuster-proof 60 votes.
In addition to Moran and Lankford, Senators Jeff Flake of Arizona and Bob Corker of Tennessee have repeatedly warned party leaders that they won’t vote for a plan they believe adds too much to the debt. And Senators John McCain of Arizona and Susan Collins of Maine have not committed to the tax bill after opposing the GOP in its earlier attempts to unravel Obamacare.
Complicating the Republican challenge even further are the objections from Johnson and Daines, who want changes that could push the bill in the opposite direction from where Moran and Lankford want to see it go. Johnson and Daines want to expand exemptions for so-called “pass-through” businesses—companies whose owners file taxes as individuals. But deep cuts for those companies were in large part what blew a hole in Kansas’s deficit, since they prompted many more owners to structure their taxes to take advantage of the provision.
Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell are betting that the holdouts will come around—that the GOP’s urgent, even desperate, need for a legislative win will override concerns about particular provisions in the bill. That belief is undermined by polls showing the Republican tax proposals remain unpopular, and by an analysis by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office validating Democratic criticisms that the tax cuts flow disproportionately to the wealthy rather than lower- and middle-income earners.
Still, the GOP leaders’ bet might yet prove correct. The party’s internal critics do not seem as hardened as were Republican opponents during the health-care fight, and each of them has signaled a desire to ultimately vote in favor of the tax bill. The proposal won an important endorsement Monday from Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, the conservative who has frustrated Trump and GOP leaders with his votes against the Obamacare and budget bills.
Johnson, Daines, and Corker all said they were in talks throughout the weekend with the White House and Senate leaders, and Trump met with a group of GOP senators for lunch on Monday to discuss changes. “The Tax Cut Bill is coming along very well, great support,” the president tweeted. “With just a few changes, some mathematical, the middle class and job producers can get even more in actual dollars and savings and the pass through provision becomes simpler and really works well!”
The question is how quickly Republicans can find the final pieces to their tax puzzle. Trump wants to sign a bill by Christmas, both to notch his first big policy achievement by the end of the year and to avoid the complication of losing a Republican seat in the Senate in January if Democrat Doug Jones defeats Roy Moore in Alabama next month. The House and Senate likely will still need to vote again on a final version. But to meet that deadline, the upper chamber first needs to pass its plan this week, and for the moment, Republicans look like they’re still a few votes short.


President Trump met with Republican members of the Senate Finance Committee to discuss changes to their tax plan. Texas Senator John Cornyn told reporters that the chamber will vote on the legislation this week, although it’s not clear that the bill has enough votes to pass. A White House official said the president has no plans to campaign for Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, despite Trump’s defense of Moore against sexual-misconduct allegations. In his first news conference since he was accused of groping several women, Minnesota Senator Al Franken apologized, but said he will return to work. Trump referred to Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren as “Pocahontas” during an event honoring Navajo code talkers who served during World War II.
Monday Morning Madness: The battle over who will lead the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau began when two different acting directors showed up at the office. (Gillian B. White)
Ominous Words?: The Department of Justice is opposing the AT&T-Time Warner merger on antitrust grounds. But Trump’s hostility toward CNN, which is owned by Time-Warner, makes the challenge far more sinister, argues David Frum.
Red-State Revolt: In Oklahoma, a state where 65 percent of voters backed Trump just a year ago, Democrats are taking advantage of a budget crisis unfolding in the Republican-led government. (Russell Berman)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Inside the East Wing: Sarah Ellison interviewed Melania Trump’s staffers, friends, and advisers to better understand the first lady and her motivations. According to one friend of the Trumps’, “This isn’t something she wanted, and it isn’t something he ever thought he’d win.” (Vanity Fair)
What Does It Mean?: The lawyer for former National-Security Adviser Michael Flynn reportedly met with members of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s team. (Matthew Mosk, Mike Levine, and Brian Ross, ABC News)
Worse Off: New analysis of the Senate tax bill from the Congressional Budget Office shows it would place a much bigger burden on low-income families than originally thought. (Heather Long, The Washington Post)
‘I’ve Raised My Voice’: John McCain discusses his life- and career-changing year—and the legacy he hopes to leave behind. (David Usborne, Esquire)
Misunderstanding Due Process: David French argues that House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi’s defense of Democrat John Conyers, who has been accused of sexual misconduct, demonstrates that “the ‘icon’ defense is alive and well.” (National Review)
‘The New York Times Can't Figure Out Where Nazis Come From In 2017. Pepe Has An Answer.’
by BuzzFeed’s Charlie Warzel
The New York Times raised a furor over the Thanksgiving weekend with its profile of Tony Hovater, a 29-year-old white nationalist from Ohio. What I found elucidating was Warzel’s follow-up piece that dove into Hovater's online record of racist and hateful posts. There’s been no shortage of writing on white nationalists this year, but the best of it has taken the epidemiological approach Warzel displays here: probing the vectors of Hovater’s “infection” by a bigoted ideology and dissecting the “symptoms” he’s displayed as it’s progressed.
—Associate editor Matt Ford
A Timeline of the Trump-Russia Scandal: This visual guide summarizes each newsmaking event in the story of alleged collaboration between Trump’s campaign and the Russian government. (Vox)
In a recent story in The New York Times, reporter Richard Fausset described the relatively ordinary life of Tony Hovater, a white nationalist living in Ohio, referring to him as “the Nazi sympathizer next door.” Critics argued that the piece didn’t offer context and left white-nationalist ideas unchecked. (In this vein, The Atlantic’s James Hamblin wrote a parody of the story.) Fausset soon followed up with a piece describing his reporting process.
What do you think? Do stories like this normalize people with extreme viewpoints?
Share your response here, and we’ll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey), Lena Felton (@lenakfelton), and Taylor Hosking (@Taylor__Hosking)


It is a skill, actually, to make someone feel as though they are drowning in words. If you’ve ever read a transcript of a Donald Trump interview, you know what the experience is like. Next-level incoherence is disorienting—and can be oddly powerful.
The American-Russian journalist Masha Gessen has thought a lot about Trump’s rambling and disjointed way of speaking—in part because it reminds her so much of Vladimir Putin’s style. In Russia, Putin uses words yet means their opposites. At times, he seems to render words meaningless.
“He just keeps talking,” Gessen says. “And throwing numbers out there. Most of them wrong.”
Then there’s Trump: “He talks and you don’t even know where the punctuation marks fall. And the more you try to engage with those words, the less they mean.”
In the latest episode of The Atlantic Interview, Gessen speaks with The Atlantic’s editor in chief, Jeffrey Goldberg, about the similarities between Putin and Trump, the way intergenerational trauma can shape a political movement, and why the United States is marching away from democracy.
An edited and condensed transcript of their conversation is below.

Jeffrey Goldberg: Do you think Donald Trump was brought to power by Russians or by Americans?
Masha Gessen: I think Donald Trump was brought to power by Americans. They voted for him.
Goldberg: Do you think we are overemphasizing Russia’s nefarious—either intent or actual—actions in this moment?
Gessen: These are leading questions, but yes. Absolutely. I do think that we’re overemphasizing it. And I think we’re overemphasizing it at the expense of actually being able to think about the election.
Goldberg: What do you mean?
Gessen: Americans voted for Trump. A lot of people in this country feel the system of representative democracy hasn’t worked for them for a long, long time. And those are the issues that this election gives us an unfortunate opportunity to engage with. And engaging instead with the Russia conspiracy takes up that bandwidth.
Goldberg: Is the Russia conspiracy real?
Gessen: I don’t know. I mean, we don’t know, right? But it’s not a terribly important question or answer.
Goldberg: Whoa. Wait, why?
Gessen: Well, because ultimately it doesn’t matter what Russia wanted. Right? What matters is whether there was an actual arrangement with the Trump campaign. That’s the part we actually don’t know yet.
Goldberg: Let me just push back a little bit and say that if a foreign power is actively trying to meddle in an American election it still seems to matter, no?
Gessen: Okay, let me give you an example. The weekend before the election I was in Philadelphia with my daughter, canvassing for Hillary. And there was this church where they handed out the clipboards. And so we’re standing in line for clipboards, and a busload of Dutch tourists get off and get in line. And my first reaction was like, Oh these people are Dutch. They shouldn't be canvassing. And then I thought, okay, these people over in Amsterdam—if Donald Trump is elected, they will live on this planet that will risk being annihilated by a nuclear holocaust and damaged by irreparable climate change. And do they have less right to ask the people of Philadelphia to vote in a particular way than I, as a New Yorker, have to ask the people of Philadelphia to vote in a particular way?
Goldberg: So you’re not a huge fan of sovereignty as a concept.
Gessen: As a concept, no, not a huge fan.
Goldberg: As someone who does believe in American sovereignty, I’m offended by the idea that any country would try to interfere in our domestic affairs. But even more so when you have a government that is adversarial.
Gessen: Russian attempts to sow discord—first of all, they’re predictable. Second of all, they’re ridiculous. They’ve been doing pretty much the same thing for at least 50 years. American political reality has moved a lot closer to the Russian perception—what used to be a really distorted perception, it used to be a total caricature—which I think is a little disturbing.
Goldberg: We are becoming more like Russia?
Gessen: No, we’re becoming more like what Russia imagines us to be. Easily manipulated, absurdly polarized, torn apart by issues that really divide cultures in this country into two separate realities. And that you can play these realities against each other, and that will actually work.
Goldberg: This goes to a larger point that you make which is that Putin is not the Bond villain mastermind of global chaos.
Gessen: It’s an incredibly circular thing because he, of course, wants to be the Bond villain. That’s what he dreamed of doing his entire life. He always wanted to be the secret agent who rules the world from the shadows. He never wanted to be a public politician. This behind-the-scenes stuff, that’s the real fun part. And I don’t think he’s very good at it. What we have seen now of what Russia did in the campaign is mostly ridiculous. And yet the way that Americans have reacted to it—or a large number of Americans have reacted to it—has actually elevated Putin exactly to the level of the Bond villain that Putin aspires to be.
Goldberg: Are you surprised that American liberals now are on the Russia-paranoia bandwagon?
Gessen: I am really surprised, and I’m really disappointed.
Goldberg: The idea that [Trump’s campaign] would want to do something—if they actually did want to do something—with Russia is profoundly disturbing, but they’re so bad at this.
Gessen: [Laughs]
Goldberg: Which one is worse: the idea that the Trump people would want to collude, or that Russia was engaged in an effort to create dissension and anxiety in America?
Gessen: One can actually argue that no matter what happens with the investigation, we’re not going to learn anything new about this. Because we have known for years that Russia tries to create dissension in America. But I don’t know that it tells us anything significant about the political moment we’re in. I think the significant stuff is actually in the voting data and in the states that voted for Trump.
Goldberg: What is happening in America? How are we becoming more like a dysfunctional non-democracy?
Gessen: There are a couple of ways to use the word democracy, and the way that I think is productive is to think about democracy as not a state that can actually be achieved, but as an ideal. It’s an aspirational ideal and the ideal is always changing. But at this point this country is not moving toward democracy. It’s marching away from democracy.
Goldberg: You write in your book, The Future Is History, about Homo Sovieticus.
Gessen: Homo Sovieticus is basically the human being who evolved to survive under conditions of state terror. Any person faced with an ongoing traumatic situation develops certain survival skills, certain coping mechanisms—the personality fragments, and different parts of the person get activated depending on these rapidly shifting circumstances.
The hypothesis that I write about in the book, on the part of the sociologist who invented the term Homo Sovieticus, was that it was generationally bound. And once enough time had passed since state terror ended, since the 1950s, Homo Sovieticus was just going to die out, and then the Soviet Union was going to collapse. And the Soviet Union seemed to collapse right on schedule. But then it turned out that Homo Sovieticus didn’t go anywhere, because there’s such a thing as intergenerational trauma. And those coping skills—those ways of behaving and thinking—are actually passed on from generation to generation in society as a whole.
So society as a whole has cultural institutions that sort of kick into gear as soon as they start getting signals that they interpret as signals from a totalitarian past. And I think that’s what's happened under Putin. Putin set out to build a mafia state. He didn’t set out to build a totalitarian regime. But he was building his mafia state on the ruins of a totalitarian regime. And so we end up with a mafia state and a totalitarian society.
Goldberg: How does Trump relate, in behavioral ways, to what you’re talking about?
Gessen: Two things. There’s a direct parallel in this appeal to the imaginary past. That’s what Putin does, and that’s what Trump does. And they do it in some really remarkably similar ways. This vague idea of traditional values. This idea of making America great again, making Russia great again.
And it’s not clear which “great” it is, but it communicates in a very comprehensible way: You can go back to the time when you felt more comfortable, when you could understand the world that you lived in, when you were not constantly confronted with things that make you uneasy—those things can be homosexuals, immigrants, transgender people—and I’m going to take you back to a comfortable past ... At this point it’s pretty sort of traditional isolationist.
Goldberg: When I hear Trump talking about invading Iraq and taking the oil, or language that is intemperate and that could trigger a war with North Korea, I don’t think he’s an isolationist. I think he believes that the world is America’s for the taking. This is why he’s so offended—but also so impressed—by people who argue for strong trade deals on behalf of their own countries ... But go back to the Trump voter.
Gessen: I want to really think differently than the very consistent liberal-media line of, Well if they just knew better they would vote differently. They’re under-informed, they’re under-educated. I think it really misunderstands something, which is that, just because people are not acting rationally in accordance with what you think is rational, doesn’t mean that they’re not acting rationally. And I think there’s perfectly rational voter behavior in voting for Trump. For economic reasons and social reasons.
Life is getting worse. You are less comfortable in your own house, in your own town, in your own skin. Your outlook for the future is worse with every passing year. And you conscientiously voted for people through this entire time. So it is actually an established fact that the system did not work for you. This representative democracy thing. And so you go and lob a grenade at it, when the grenade becomes available. And that is rational.
Goldberg: In your book, you draw a picture of Russia in seemingly permanent decline—a decline caused by trauma and corruption and unexamined psychological duress. Is there any off-ramp?
Gessen: After Putin is over—and he will be over eventually, everything ends—Russia will not maintain its current borders. I’m pretty sure of that. It’s an empire that is experiencing more and more tension, and it’s holding together as a result of a combination of both fear and greed. So Putin either instills fear in the regions, or buys them off. That system will break down the moment the Kremlin is thrown into disarray, which it will be when Putin is gone. Putin is definitely aware of the challenges to Russian territorial integrity.
Goldberg: Let’s assume that it’s his attempt, personally, to interfere or weaken American unity and American morale. Is it of a piece with his successful attempt to occupy Crimea? I’m going to make the stronger country—that’s my rival—weaker, and I’m going to build out the Russian empire because I know that the Russian empire is actually so weak. In other words, are these the actions of a weakling?
Kremlin-Sponsored News Does Really Well on Google
Gessen: Well these are the actions of somebody who does feel permanently threatened—threatened personally [and] to the extent that he doesn’t actually perceive a boundary between himself and the state. He has continuously come in—and this is actually another weird parallel between him and Trump—he has continuously campaigned on the threat to the country. His message has consistently been, We’re on the brink of catastrophe and I’m the only person who can hold things together. And if I step away, everything will fall apart. I think that he sincerely believes that. He believes that even more sincerely because he has been watching Putin TV for 17 years. And so he says to the television what it should say, and then it says it, and then he believes it. Which is also not dissimilar from the media bubble that Trump is intent on creating—or has, to a large extent, created for himself.
Goldberg: Fox and Friends, the Russia Today of America.
Gessen: Fox and Friends and Breitbart. So, yes, there is deep moral justification that Putin feels for things like the annexation of Crimea, and interference in a variety of Western elections—because all those things pose a threat to Russia.
Goldberg: You’ve spoken a lot about Trump’s use of language—and misuse of language. Does Putin engage in the same practices? Making words mean the opposite of what they mean?
Gessen: Similar practices. Putin came to power after 10 years of a transitional state in Russia, and 70 years of totalitarianism. Totalitarianism was marked by a kind of new-speak where words were used to mean their opposites. One of my favorite examples is what they called voting, “the free expression of citizen will,” when “the free expression of citizen will” was actually somebody having to go to your precinct under penalty of law and having to put a check mark next to the one name on the ballot. And then Putin came and renewed the practice of having words mean their opposites, but also introduced the new practice of having words mean nothing. He just keeps talking. And throwing numbers out there. Most of them wrong.
It’s meant to create the impression that he knows what he’s talking about. But it’s also just meant to drown you in meaningless stuff. And Trump actually does both of those things.
I think he has an incredible instinct for assimilating words and phrases from the liberal discourse and making them mean their opposite—“safe space,” “witch hunt,” “fake news.” But he also just creates word salad. So he talks and you don't even know where the punctuation marks fall. And the more you try to engage with those words, the less they mean, because you just drown in them. And so, in that sense, they’re both doing the same thing. They do it so differently, but the effect is so similar.


At the end of last month, President Trump declared that in November, the U.S. would honor Native American heritage. “This month, I encourage all of our citizens to learn about the rich history and culture of the Native American people,” he wrote.
On Monday, he stood in front of a portrait of President Andrew Jackson to thank World War II Navajo code talkers, using the opportunity to mock a senator who claimed Cherokee descent, by using a Powhatan name.
Is Elizabeth Warren Native American or What?
“I just want to thank you because you’re very, very special people,” Trump said, after a characteristically vague and nearly meaningless description of the role played by the men, who during World War II served in the Marines, using native languages as a code that the Japanese couldn’t break. Then he added: “You were here long before any of us were here, although we have a representative in Congress who, they say, was here a long time ago. They call her ‘Pocahontas.’”
That is, of course, Trump’s favorite nickname for Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who described herself as part Cherokee earlier in her career. Trump’s comment was astonishing. During an event honoring a specific group of Native American veterans of the Second World War, Trump suddenly veered into congratulating the men as exemplars of the all Native American peoples since time immemorial. He did so while standing in front of a portrait of Jackson, infamous for driving Native Americans out of the southeastern United States. And he used the ceremony to snipe at a political rival, delivering a personal insult while using an offensive nickname.
Native American groups have long criticized Trump for calling the senator Pocahontas. While he means to belittle Warren, they feel that it is also belittling to them. The nickname insults the original Pocahontas, a tragic figure who was kidnapped, and then later traveled to England with her husband John Rolfe, where she died; it conflates Pocahontas’s Powhatan heritage with other groups; and it is frequently used to mock Native Americans.
The president continues to use the nickname at this point not because he is ignorant of the offense he is causing but because he seeks to cause offense. According to a pool reporter, Trump’s comment was met with silence in the room. The men did not object, but they were hardly in a position to do so: They are veterans being honored by the commander in chief, and given that they are also seeking support for a code-talker museum, they have little incentive to criticize him. (Trump loves using captive audiences who can’t object to his offensive comments.)
Although the point of this particular insult may not be to offend Native Americans, it’s no surprise that Trump is indifferent to their complaints. The president has a long history of offensive comments about Native Americans. His October 31 statement about Native American Heritage Month is extremely fraught. “Beginning with the Pilgrims’ arrival at Plymouth Colony and continuing until the present day, Native American’s [sic] contributions are woven deeply into our Nation’s rich tapestry,” Trump wrote, a statement that makes no historical sense.
For one thing, English settlers interacted with Native Americans (yes, the Powhatans) at Jamestown 13 years before the Pilgrims’ arrival. Moreover, American history does not begin with the arrival of Europeans. Native Americans were contributing to what would become the United States long before Jamestown or Plymouth. Trump also wrote that “They helped early European settlers survive and thrive in a new land,” which reduces them to a Tonto-style supporting role and glosses over the violence committed against them by the same European settlers.
Minutes after Trump’s remarks, reporters at the White House briefing asked Press Secretary Sarah Sanders about what he’d said. Sanders rejected a characterization of the “Pocahontas” nickname as a racial slur. It is true that the name is not offensive per se, even if the specific use of it is. Trump has, however, endorsed the use of other anti-Native American slurs, saying that the name of the NFL’s Washington Redskins is “a positive” and that attempts to change it are “unnecessary political correctness.”
Sanders insisted that the real story was that Warren had claimed Native American heritage in order to advance her career. “I don’t understand why that isn’t constantly covered,” Sanders said. There are reasons why it’s not constantly covered, as Sanders knows: It’s been extensively covered. Warren’s claims of Native American heritage are not supported by any evidence, as Garance Franke-Ruta explained here in 2012. However, there’s also not any evidence that Warren benefited professionally from her claim of Cherokee blood.
The Trump administration should perhaps be careful about casting this particular stone in their glass house. While battling an attempt to establish Native American casinos that would have competed with his Atlantic City casinos, Trump said, “I think I might have more Indian blood than a lot of the so-called Indians that are trying to open up the reservations.” Even more damningly, Trump himself for years followed in his father’s footsteps by lying about his heritage in order to advance his career, saying his family came from Sweden rather than Germany. “Our country was at war with Germany,” he told The Boston Globe last year. “So being from Germany didn’t necessarily play so well for a period of time.”
Learn about rich Native American traditions, don’t lie about your heritage to advance your career—for the president, these are apparently matters of doing as he says, rather than as he does.


There’s been a fight at Marrero Middle School. Two sixth graders traded insults during football practice, someone threw a punch, and soon enough they were on the ground with a ring of students egging them on.
A few years ago, a fight like this might have ended with someone being suspended, or even arrested. But over the past year and a half, the New Orleans-area middle school has rebuilt its entire approach to discipline.
Now, the two boys are sent to John Kulakowski, a teacher who splits his time between English class and leading sessions known as restorative circles. He pulls a few desks together in a circle and starts asking questions, staring intently into each student’s eyes as they speak. What happened? Who was affected? How did it make you feel?
This is restorative justice, an alternative approach to punitive discipline that’s gaining traction in schools and courts across the country. The concept is meant to redefine infractions from “a breaking of rules to a breaking of relationships,” said Troi Bechet, founder of the New Orleans nonprofit Center for Restorative Approaches. Bechet’s group trains schools, offices, and other communities in restorative practices.
Such an approach might seem expected when dealing with disciplinary infractions among school kids. But it hasn’t been, especially not in Marrero.
Marrero is part of Jefferson Parish, which knits together the diverse suburbs surrounding New Orleans into the largest school district in Louisiana. The parish became emblematic of the national school-to-prison pipeline a few years ago, after the Southern Poverty Law Center filed a federal complaint alleging the school district was arresting African American students at a vastly disproportionate rate, often for crimes like “being an ungovernable juvenile” or “interfering with an educational facility.”
In one particularly high-profile incident in 2015, a black Jefferson Parish eighth grader was arrested and handcuffed in front of his class while taking a social-studies test. He spent six days in a juvenile-detention center before he saw a judge. His crime was throwing Skittles at another student on the school bus the day before.
The Skittles arrest drew national scrutiny. In response to the attention, the school district came up with a new discipline plan featuring restorative justice. The handbook now gives students the right to request a restorative circle before a suspension and offers schools guidance in how to use restorative techniques. The district also contracts with CRA to facilitate circles or train staff in restorative practices for any school that wants them.
Decades of zero-tolerance policies have convinced many school administrators that the only way to make schools safe is to kick misbehaving students out through suspension, expulsion, or arrest. This has had far-ranging consequences, particularly for students of color. Black students are nearly four times more likely to be suspended than white students. That, in turn, makes them much more likely to drop out. Research also suggests the risk of arrest doubles when students are suspended or expelled from school.
“Incarceration and punishment [are] not cancelling out the problem,” said Christina Conforto, the principal of Marrero Middle School.
Restorative justice is not just a different approach; it’s also a radical shift in understanding wrongdoing in the first place. Whereas most components of the American criminal-justice system are based on a retributive view of  justice that aims to curb and punish violations against law or social contract, restorative justice sees conflict as a natural component of living in a community. Its goal is not to shun offenders, but to strengthen the community and “repair the harm” while keeping everyone’s dignity intact.
“Rules are important. They keep us safe. They give us boundaries,” said Lauren Trout, a restorative-justice facilitator with the Jefferson Parish district attorney’s office. “But when rules are broken, what’s ultimately happened is somebody’s been hurt. Because we’re not in relationship to rules and laws—we’re in relationship to one another.”
When applied to criminal justice, some studies have found that restorative approaches produce higher victim-satisfaction rates and lower recidivism rates than the traditional justice system does.
A core tool of restorative justice is the restorative circle, a nonjudgmental space for everyone who was affected by the incident to express themselves and come to a resolution. In the school context, that can include parents and teachers.
At the end of a circle, participants come up with an agreement to repair the harm. They might decide someone needs to post an apology on Facebook, or a resolution could be as simple as a promise to say hello to each other in the hallway.
“Middle school … is a very dramatic place,” Conforto said. “There’s always drama. It just became very clear that we couldn’t suspend our way to a calm campus.” She said some teachers needed convincing that this approach is not just an easy out for kids.
“Staying home for three days is an easy solution. That’s a vacation,” she told them. “What is a harder solution is to sit there amongst your peers and their parents and your parents, and be made to take responsibility for what you did wrong. Being made to make amends, and have to make a contract, and have to apologize and shake hands in front of everybody? That is much more difficult than to stay home for three days.”
Before he became a facilitator, Kulakowski also had his doubts. “I was very skeptical at first,” he said. He thought kids would simply go through the motions of talking about a fight and then go back out and start fighting again. But then kids started asking him for circles before fights broke out. “I realized that once we did it right, it really worked,” he said.
Since Marrero decided to commit to restorative approaches in August 2016, suspensions have dropped by 56 percent. Conforto reports that they’re seeing fewer fights overall. Other schools that have embraced the “whole school” training have also seen declines in out-of-school suspensions, data from the Jefferson Parish school district show.
But creating and sustaining a restorative culture takes a great deal of work and commitment, Trout said.
“The goal of restorative practices is not to reduce suspension rates,” she said. “The goal of restorative practices is to create cultures and climates in which people feel connected to each other.”
To that end, Kulakowski doesn’t just hold restorative circles after an incident has happened. Teachers and students will come to him if they sense a problem brewing so he can de-escalate the situation with a preventative circle before conflict occurs. He visits classrooms to talk about bullying and explain the circles. He even facilitates circles between teachers. In the first year of the new approach, Conforto also required teachers to hold at least one community-building circle a month.
And teachers have been trained to have restorative conversations in their classrooms.
“That can be a five-minute conversation with a student,” Trout said. “What do you think could be needed to repair the harm? What can I do to assist you? What are we going to do to make it right?”
More school systems across the country are experimenting with restorative justice. Many are touting reduced suspensions and higher graduation rates. But implementation of the philosophy differs region by region, and results can vary dramatically depending on training and resources. The fluidity of the concept also makes it difficult for researchers to develop an objective standard or quantitative metric that can measure success. Because restorative justice is so new in American schools, research into its effectiveness is still relatively limited. The informal consensus suggests that the schools with the most sustained success have incorporated restorative-justice principles into their overall philosophy, rather than as an add-on program or disciplinary tactic.
Only a handful of the 86 Jefferson Parish schools besides Marrero have adopted the whole-school approach. Many schools are more interested in devoting their limited resources to improving test scores or reducing class sizes. Some will call Trout in to facilitate circles every so often. But Trout said bringing in an outsider to put out fires isn’t nearly as effective as having a regular presence on campus like Kulakowski, who can build close relationships with the students before an incident happens.
“A lot of teachers say, ‘That sounds really great, [but] there’s no time for that,’” Trout said.
Marrero had to shift resources to create Kulakowski’s facilitator position: “We have large classes and stuff because he’s not teaching four periods of the day,” Conforto said. And without more buy-in across the whole school system, the district’s progress has been uneven.
Data obtained by SPLC show that while arrests are steadily declining since the new discipline plan was introduced, black students in the parish are still being arrested at a much higher rate than their white peers.
Trout said more district funding should be allocated for permanent restorative-practices faculty. But even Trout’s position is precarious: She is funded by a federal School Climate Transformation Grant that will expire in a couple years, and it’s not clear what will happen after that.
Despite the resource limitations, Trout said the change in mentality is most important. “In schools that are having that paradigm shift and are buying into that different way of thinking, restorative practices don’t feel like one more thing to do,” Trout said. “It just feels like a different way of being.”


Speaking before he left Washington for Thanksgiving, President Trump laid out a coldly rational case for backing Roy Moore, the troubled Republican candidate for U.S. Senate in Alabama. Despite the multiple women who have aired allegations running from sexual assault to merely deeply creepy behavior, Trump said, he preferred a solid vote for his agenda in the Senate.
But less noted was his analysis of the actual accusations against Moore. “Let me just tell you, Roy Moore denies it,” Trump said. “That's all I can say. He denies it. By the way, he totally denies it.” That isn’t much response to multiple allegations that even Trump’s own daughter has deemed credible, and the answer appears even stranger in light of a New York Times report over the holiday weekend.
Why Trump Is Siding With Roy Moore
“He sees the calls for Mr. Moore to step aside as a version of the response to the now-famous ‘Access Hollywood’ tape, in which he boasted about grabbing women’s genitalia, and the flood of groping accusations against him that followed soon after,” the paper reported. Sensible enough: As I and others have noted, there’s a strong analogy between those cases, and Trump’s survival offers the best hope for Moore.
But the paper added: “He suggested to a senator earlier this year that it was not authentic, and repeated that claim to an adviser more recently.”
The White House’s stance is that all 16 women who have accused Trump of sexual improprieties, harassment, or assault are lying. Trump’s old position on the Access Hollywood tape was that he was lying. The view he now apparently holds privately is that the tape itself is lying.
But the tape is authentic. Trump acknowledged as much when it was revealed, and apologized for his words (though not to the women upon whom he boasted about preying) while claiming that he had not actually done the things he bragged about having done. Billy Bush, the television host with whom he was speaking on the tape (and who, unlike Trump, lost his job simply for not reacting with disgust to the comments) also acknowledged it was real.
In short, the suggestion that it was not Trump on the tape is either deeply dishonest or unhinged from reality, or both. While Trump lies with abandon, and has done so throughout his career, this is a particularly curious case, one where not only is there no real dispute about reality, but in fact documentary evidence in the form of a recording of Trump discussing the acts himself.
In the early days of the Moore allegations—before Beverly Young Nelson, before the stories about how Moore’s preference for young girls was well-known, before stories about how he’d been banned from the Gadsden Mall, before the story of him calling one object of his affection at her high school—many Republicans took a cautious track, refusing to pass judgment on the claims. After the deluge, most of them quickly announced they believed the women.
The president remains an outlier. What evidence of sexual assault or harassment would Trump accept? In the Moore case, the White House’s initial move was to say that if the accusations against Moore were true, he should step aside. Then came a string of additional accusations, independently lodged but similar enough in contour to suggest a consistent approach by Moore. They were backed by various forms of circumstantial evidence. Many Republicans, from Mitch McConnell to Ivanka Trump, deemed the allegations credible. But Trump himself both reversed the White House’s previous stand, saying he backed Moore regardless of the claims, and also endorsed Moore’s denials.
This is, in a way, consistent with Trump’s approach to the allegations against him, which he has made great jumps of logic to dismiss. First there were a few stories about unwanted attention to women, ranging in degree of seriousness. Then came more, including serious allegations from Jill Harth, who said Trump repeatedly groped her and tried to force her into a bedroom at Mar-a-Lago. Finally came the Access Hollywood tape, in which Trump openly boasted about improperly touching women. One didn’t even need to take the women’s allegations as truth to believe that the president’s behavior was unacceptable. Trump claimed at the time that he hadn’t really done what he said he had.
Is there any evidence that would prove allegations against Trump? If a tape of Trump making the claims himself can be explained away, even a videotape of the act might be insufficient.
Although Trump has clear motives for dismissing the Access Hollywood tape, that doesn’t indicate whether he is simply lying or really believes it. The president has no hesitations about feeding the public untruths. During his trip to Asia, he deferred comment on Moore, telling reporters, “Believe it or not, even when I’m in Washington or New York, I do not watch much television.” That statement is belied by his frequent tweets about specific segments on TV, his constant complaining about some outlets (including a fresh spree over the weekend), and his similarly frequent free advertising for Fox News. As commentators have been noting for months, the president often seems to be gaslighting the public, insisting that they can’t believe their own lying eyes, or ears. This is a potentially potent method of demagoguery, given psychological research on the fallibility of memory.
Yet there are also signs that Trump is sometimes incapable of discerning real life from fiction. The fact that the president shared his doubts about the tape not via Twitter but in private conversations—including, amazingly, with a U.S. senator—might suggest that the problem is not that Trump is out to fool the public but that he himself has fallen into the trap of rewriting his memory. That the president could be so inconstant on a matter of provable fact is for obvious reasons worrisome in the policy sphere.
It turns out, though, that there are some claims the president is prepared to accept. Trump has been quick to credit allegations made against political opponents, from groping claims against Senator Al Franken to the multiple sexual-assault and rape claims against Harvey Weinstein.
It may be that the president’s approach to the claims against Moore reflects a similarly bald political calculus. Monday morning, a White House official told the AP that Trump would not travel to Alabama to campaign on Moore’s behalf, which may represent White House pessimism about Moore’s prospects. If the president sticks to that—and as we’ve seen, he frequently reverses his own staff’s statements—it would represent a remarkable act of Solomonic baby-splitting. On the one hand, the president doesn’t think it’s worth hitting the trail for Moore, yet he also is willing to stake his credibility on dismissing all evidence against Moore. For Trump, the truth is something that can be played with, but politics is serious business.


Days before the Thanksgiving holiday, the U.S. Department of Justice released its complaint against the proposed AT&T–Time Warner merger. The complaint is a history-making document. It announces a return to long-discarded approaches to antitrust, and argues that these old ways have regained relevance in the digital era.
The Justice Department’s arguments for this rediscovery are sophisticated and even compelling—so much so that they raise a retrospective question: If this big merger of content creators and content carriers is banned as anticompetitive, why was the previous big merger of Comcast and NBC Universal permitted? The issues raised by AT&T–Time Warner were also presented by Comcast–NBC. What has changed between then and now?
The morning after Thanksgiving, however, President Trump tweeted his latest and most outrageous attack yet on CNN, a unit of Time Warner.
.@FoxNews is MUCH more important in the United States than CNN, but outside of the U.S., CNN International is still a major source of (Fake) news, and they represent our Nation to the WORLD very poorly. The outside world does not see the truth from them!
These are ominous words. Inside the U.S., CNN’s reporting is protected by the First Amendment and the courts. Outside of the country, U.S.-affiliated journalists do ultimately depend on the protection of the U.S. government. Trump’s tweet is a direct attack on those international journalists’ freedom and even safety. Trump is inviting rogue regimes and other bad actors all over the world to harass CNN journalists—or worse. Trump’s words inspired this lament from General Michael Hayden, a former director of the National Security Agency and the Central Intelligence Agency.
If this is who we are or who we are becoming, I have wasted 40 years of my life. Until now it was not possible for me to conceive of an American President capable of such an outrageous assault on truth, a free press or the first amendment.
Trump’s animus against CNN raises a searching and troubling question. What if the Department of Justice is doing the right thing for the wrong reason? Or what if the president’s personal determination to silence a crucial media institution—or, worse, to force its sale to an ally like Rupert Murdoch—explains the sudden pivot in the department’s antitrust philosophy?
From the 1930s through the 1980s, antitrust lawyers worried a lot about vertical integration: companies that owned every step of production, from mine to showroom. In 1948, the Department of Justice won a case forcing the major movie producers to sell their chains of movie theaters.
The Supreme Court’s decision in U.S. v. Paramount Pictures incidentally destabilized the careers of many B-movie actors who had until then enjoyed steady, predictable salaries under the old studio system. The shock jolted one of those actors, Ronald Reagan, from his former New Deal liberalism to burning rage against an over-intrusive federal government.
Indeed, the old concern with vertical integration did become progressively more intrusive. In the 1960s, makers of car radios brought a spate of lawsuits to stop carmakers from selling cars with radios preinstalled. Could cameras be sold with film? Insulin together with the infusion apparatus? How could an economy innovate if every product upgrade required government approval? Just think of how much of the office equipment of the 1980s—calendar, camera, calculator, dictionary—comes bundled in a modern phone!
When Reagan reached the presidency, in 1981, he oversaw the reinvention of antitrust law. The new thinking on antitrust—most powerfully expressed in Robert Bork’s 1978 book, The Antitrust Paradox—denounced the old concern with vertical integration. The Justice Department, Bork argued, should zealously police mergers between companies that competed directly against one another: horizontal competition, in the argot. What happened up and down the product chain should be left to Mr. Market to decide. The Comcast–NBC deal was approved by that logic.
Unnervingly, however, the uses of market power that we confront in the 2010s look a lot more like the old motion-picture studios trying to control every inch of film content in their theaters than like car-radio makers trying to force consumers to buy two products at a higher price instead of one convenient bundle of car and radio at a lower price. Facebook seeks to seize for itself all of the value created by its users. Companies such as Comcast hope to use control of the content consumers want to extract purchases of content that consumers want less. Time Warner, the DOJ fears, hopes to extend this grasp to the emerging mobile world: maintaining the high profits of the old cable industry even as Americans sever cable’s physical cords.
As social media emerge as the nation’s, and the world’s, true public square, hard questions arise about their owners claims to be mere platforms. Does Facebook really have no duty to police advertisers who request, “No blacks, please?” Can Twitter stand aside as its platform is used for harassment and threats?
The deregulated, postindustrial world of the 1980s and ’90s seemed to banish old fears of industrial concentration. The world of Google, Facebook, and Amazon looks a lot more like the world dominated by U.S. Steel and General Motors. Suddenly, formerly antique antitrust ideas again seem relevant to our time.
Only … is that really what’s going on?
From The New York Times, July 5, 2017:
White House advisers have discussed a potential point of leverage over their adversary, a senior administration official said: a pending merger between CNN’s parent company, Time Warner, and AT&T. Mr. Trump’s Justice Department will decide whether to approve the merger, and while analysts say there is little to stop the deal from moving forward, the president’s animus toward CNN remains a wild card.
On the campaign trail, Trump repeatedly denounced the merger, as he also attacked Amazon, the company founded by Jeff Bezos, owner of The Washington Post. Bruised by The Post’s reporting, Trump delivered this threat to Sean Hannity in May 2016: “[Bezos] thinks I’ll go after him for antitrust. Because he’s got a huge antitrust problem because he’s controlling so much, Amazon is controlling so much of what they are doing. He’s using The Washington Post, which is peanuts, he’s using that for political purposes to save Amazon in terms of taxes and in terms of antitrust.”
Strikingly, Trump had little to say about anticompetitive trends elsewhere in the economy. The banking industry underwent a huge consolidation during and after the financial crisis. The share of deposits held by the top 10 banks jumped from 30 percent in 2000 to 46 percent in 2010. The top 10 held 36 percent of loans in 2000, but 50 percent in 2010. The overwhelming majority of that concentration is explained by mergers: an average of 150 a year over that decade.
Monopolization even in the information economy does not interest him so long as the monopolizers refrain from reporting on him in ways he does not like. Trump has had nothing negative to say about Facebook or Google. He reserved his antitrust energy exclusively for companies connected to The Washington Post and CNN. That’s fishy.
Likewise it’s fishy that the assistant attorney general for antitrust who filed the objection to the AT&T–Time Warner merger saw “no problem” with it in a television interview before he joined the Trump administration. Something changed his mind after he took office.
The most sinister explanation of the change is that Trump’s anti-CNN animus inspired the DOJ’s intervention.
But here’s a second explanation, rather less sinister but in its way just as disturbing. The career Justice Department staff wanted to move against the AT&T–TimeWarner merger because of reviving concerns about vertical integration and market power in the Facebook-Google-Amazon era. Their wish may well have been blocked under a more normal Republican president with more conventionally conservative, Bork-influenced views of antitrust. Trump’s determination to strike at CNN, however, opened an opportunity for a more aggressive approach. In other words, we could be looking at a federal-enforcement action that is simultaneously credible in its substance—and also enabled by malicious motives.
In the litigation over the Trump travel ban, courts cited Trump’s tweets as evidence that he had exceeded his proper powers. Historically, presidents have wielded large discretionary power over the entry of aliens into the United States. They can exclude any category or subcategory of aliens for any reason. In one case, the Supreme Court upheld an exclusion of an alien even when the executive offered no reason at all. But Trump’s tweets avowed a deliberate intention to exclude people on the basis of religion. He had demanded a “Muslim ban” during the campaign and he reiterated his “ban” terminology as recently as November 24. Confronted with this repeated actual notice of discriminatory intent, the courts reacted by imposing new limits on long-established powers of the presidency.  
What will they do as the Time Warner litigation moves forward—and the president’s virulent comments are entered into evidence? Otherwise, legal governmental actions can be tainted as illegal and unconstitutional if done for improper reasons.
Donald Trump is a president with a unique lack of respect for constitutional rights, the rule of law, and the independence of news media. That disrespect shadows every measure of his administration—and haunts the debate we need to have about rethinking antitrust in this age of digital monopoly power.


Republicans have a vise grip on power in Oklahoma, and they are in no imminent danger of losing it.
In a state that gave 65 percent of its vote to Donald Trump a year ago, the GOP controls pretty much everything: the governorship and every statewide office, both U.S. Senate seats, all five House seats. The state legislature is almost laughably one-sided; Republicans have super-majorities of more than 70 percent of the seats in each chamber.
But in the last four months, voters have repudiated those Republicans running in Oklahoma at the polls. Democrats have captured four state legislative seats held by the GOP, two in special elections for the House and two for the Senate.  The most recent—and perhaps the most surprising—win occurred last week, when a 26-year-old lesbian Democrat named Allison Ikley-Freeman edged out the Republican candidate by 31 votes in a conservative state House district near Tulsa that went heavily for Trump in 2016. Democrats may have a chance to make an even bigger statement in a few months, when a vacancy caused by the likely Senate confirmation of Representative Jim Bridenstine to be NASA administrator could trigger a special congressional election in the district that includes Tulsa.
The Death of Kansas's Conservative Experiment
Officials in both parties attribute the Democrats’ run in part to the party’s motivation to fight back in the Trump era, scandals that have forced Republican legislators to resign, and the low-turnout quirkiness of special elections. But the overriding factor is likely a budget crisis that has starved funding for Oklahoma’s schools, resulting in a teacher shortage and prompting more than one-quarter of the state’s districts to hold classes only four days a week.
“The people are just not happy,” former Oklahoma Governor Frank Keating, a Republican, told me in a phone interview. “Government appears dysfunctional, and government officials appear unwilling to solve the problems of the state and the nation. And there will be hell to pay.”
The political backlash in Oklahoma has parallels to the recent reckoning in Kansas, its neighbor to the north and another Republican-led state where deep tax cuts led to significant, ongoing budget shortfalls. Both states are heavily reliant on the oil-and-gas industries, and the drop in prices in recent years hit their economies hard and contributed to a falloff in state revenues. In Kansas, voters rebelled by ousting conservatives in favor of moderate Republicans and some Democrats in 2016. Earlier this year, the reconfigured legislature voted to roll back the signature tax cuts of conservative Governor Sam Brownback.
Lawmakers in Oklahoma City are now debating similar measures, and the Democrats’ special-election victories could help tip the balance in a state where a third-quarter super-majority is needed to raise taxes. “It really feels like the dam has broken, and the conversation has shifted in Oklahoma,” said David Blatt, executive director of the Oklahoma Policy Institute, a left-leaning advocacy group and think tank.
The budget crisis in Oklahoma has been longer in the making than the one that erupted in Kansas soon after Brownback signed his tax cuts in 2011 and 2012, Blatt said. And it implicates both parties, since it was a Democratic governor, Brad Henry, who first agreed to cut the state’s income tax in exchange for future increases in teacher pay and spending.
Those policies accelerated after Mary Fallin’s election as governor in 2010 gave Republicans full control of the government in Oklahoma, which Democrats had dominated at the state level for nearly the entire century after it joined the Union in 1907. A state that was once near the national average in the percentage of income taxes it collected from residents fell to 48th in the nation by 2014. In addition to about $1 billion in annual income tax cuts, Oklahoma have legislators voted to give between $300 million and $500 million in yearly tax breaks to the oil-and-gas industry, according to Blatt. “It’s been a serious erosion of our tax base,” he said.
In Kansas, Brownback resisted any reversal in his tax cuts on income, forcing Republican majorities to override his veto earlier in the year. But Fallin has taken the opposite approach, demanding that conservatives in the state legislature pass a budget that has substantial and recurring new revenues. A 1992 state law requiring super-majority support for tax increases has made that a challenge, however. Fallin earlier this month vetoed parts of a “cuts-and-cash” bill that closed the budget gap with a combination of one-time money transfers and spending reductions, which will likely force the legislature into a second special session to consider tax increases.
Oklahoma Democrats view the situation as evidence of a fundamental failure on the part of Republicans who spent years railing against government spending and blaming the state’s fiscal woes on a federal government led by Barack Obama, whose unpopularity in the state made his administration an effective foil. “They can’t blame it on Obama anymore, so they have no choice but to take responsibility for the failures across the board in Oklahoma,” said State Senator John Sparks, the Democratic leader.
It’s a message the party is sounding on the national level as well, where Republicans won control of both the White House and Congress but have struggled to enact their agenda and are now debating tax cuts that are similar in scope to the ones that busted the budgets in Oklahoma and Kansas. “When you have a bunch of government haters getting control of the government, it’s no surprise they don’t know how to make things operate effectively,” Sparks said.
Where the Democrats in Oklahoma see the beginnings of a wave, the state Republican Party sees little more than a ripple. Two of the seats Democrats flipped in special election came in districts where Republicans had resigned over sex-related scandals. Pam Pollard, the state GOP chairwoman, downplayed the results in an interview, pointing out that despite the Republican dominance of the state legislature, Democrats had actually won two-thirds of the special elections held in recent years. And she suggested that given the GOP’s lopsided numerical advantage, it had nowhere to go but down. Even after the special elections this year, Republicans control 40 of 48 Senate seats and 71 out of 101 in the House. “We fully anticipated that some of these would revert back to more representative of the districts,” Pollard told me.
Pollard pushed back hard against the Democratic argument that Republicans had mismanaged the state’s government. She accused local officials of playing politics  “to tug at the heart strings” by cutting down the school week rather than reducing bloated administrative expenses. And Pollard said Republicans were willing to spend more money on government where needs were demonstrated, noting that the state Department of Corrections got a 10 percent boost after an outside study recommended higher spending.
Yet the topic of tax increases remains delicate for the GOP. When Pollard broached the possibility, she stopped herself. “Let me say it better: What Republicans are looking at is not necessarily a tax increase but a change in the way revenue is collected in Oklahoma,” Pollard said. It sounds like a euphemism, and it is. But she tried to explain that the state was seeking a better balance between income taxes and sales taxes, since the rise in online shopping has led to a drop off in revenue from retail stores.
Keating, the former two-term governor who left office in 2003, saw more of a warning sign in the election results for Republicans, if only because as the party in power, they had more to lose. He told me of a conversation he recently had with a GOP state legislative candidate who had been knocking on doors in his district. The first threshold question potential voters asked was not whether he was a Republican or a Democrat, but whether he was an incumbent. “The hostility from the general public is palpable, and it will be directed at incumbents,” Keating said. “They will be held to task.”
What remains to be seen is whether the voter anger will carry over into a possible special election to replace Bridenstine in Congress. The 1st district is strongly Republican, so much so that Bridenstine first won the seat by knocking off a veteran Republican incumbent in a primary in 2012 before facing little opposition in the general election. Democrats haven’t seriously contested the seat in years.
But the political tailwinds on the state and federal level helped Democrats nearly pick off a similarly-red seat in Kansas in May, when Republican Ron Estes won a special House election by just seven points in a district Trump carried by 27. Whether there will be a special election in 2018 depends on when the Senate votes to confirm Bridenstine. Under state law, if he vacates his House seat after January 1, it would just stay empty until the November election. A Senate committee cleared his nomination earlier this month, but a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell would not say whether he’d get a floor vote by the end of the year.
Democrats suspect Republicans might try to forestall his confirmation to avert a special election. “My guess would be they start to see blood in the water,” said Michael Whelan, a local Democratic consultant who worked on three of the special-election victories this year. Yet he and other Democratic strategists I interviewed did not try to sugarcoat the party’s chances to pick up Bridenstine’s seat. “This is a very challenging district,” said one national Democratic operative who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
One candidate Democrats are watching is Rex Berry, a retired police officer who lost a race for county sheriff last year. Several Republicans are already eyeing the race, including the former Tulsa district attorney, Tim Harris, and a McDonald’s franchise owner, Kevin Hern. “I have zero fear that a Democrat will win that congressional seat,” Pollard told me.
Sparks said it was too early to assess the race, particularly since a special election has not yet been called. But for a Democratic Party that has lost all of its footholds in Oklahoma over the last two decades, the recent run of election victories have brought a little hope, if not actual power. “All seats are in play,” he told me, “and they will be until Republicans can figure out how to keep our schools open five days a week.”


In 1963, Air Force Captain Ed Dwight was assigned as the deputy for flight test at the bomber test group at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base outside of Dayton, Ohio. Dwight was a hot-shot pilot—a recent graduate of the elite Aerospace Research Pilot School, recommended by an Air Force board for NASA’s astronaut training program. A Catholic publication put news of his arrival on its cover; a parishioner heard that Dwight was having trouble finding a nice home for his family, and rented him a house in the booming suburb of Huber Heights.
Dwight was black. Ebony reported what happened next:
Soon after the Dwights moved in, the harassment began. His auto took the most punishment: grease was smeared over the spark plugs, air was let out of tires, and at night the vehicle was pelted with rocks. Shouts of “niggers, go home!” met the family almost every day. Dwight finally decided to move after a brick was thrown through a window and his daughter, Tina, was showered with broken glass.
The New York Times reporter Richard Faussett recently sat down to dinner with Tony Hovater, and his wife, Maria, at an Applebee’s in Huber Heights. Faussett was struck by how ordinary Hovater seemed. “His Midwestern manners would please anyone’s mother,” he wrote, calling him “polite and low key.” They had turkey sandwiches at a Panera Bread. Faussett had come to Ohio, “amid the row crops and rolling hills, the Olive Gardens and Steak ’n Shakes,” to solve a riddle, as he later reflected: “Why did this man—intelligent, socially adroit and raised middle class amid the relatively well-integrated environments of United States military bases—gravitate toward the furthest extremes of American political discourse?”
Because Hovater, it turns out, is a white nationalist; as Faussett put it, he’s “the Nazi sympathizer next door.”
Huber Heights, now home to Panera and Applebee’s, sprang up almost overnight. There were just 1,900 residents in the township in 1950; Charles H. Huber began erecting neat red-brick ranch homes in 1956, and soon built 9,000. His houses offered a step up for those who had flocked to Dayton to find jobs in its wartime factories—affordable, single-family homes. White families moved out to the suburbs first, and most did their best to preclude black families from following.
Desegregation was an uneven process in the Dayton suburbs. Alan Arthur Anderson moved with his family into Huber Heights in 1963, the same year as the Dwights, but local ministers spent two weeks clearing the way for their arrival. The county sheriff told The Cincinnati Enquirer that “neighbors brought cakes, cookies, candies and good wishes.” But down the road in Townview, the Fuller family was met with up to 500 protestors, including some wearing white sheets; the sheriff had to invoke the riot act and send in 100 police to break up the protest.
That legacy lingers to the present. The Urban Institute ranks Dayton as the 14th most segregated city among the largest 100 American commuting zones. There are, according to the Census, just 28 black residents among Hovater’s nearly six thousand neighbors in New Carlisle.
There were racist displays in Dayton before and after the battles over desegregation. The Second Klan, which flourished in the 1920s, flourished in the area. In 1923, Klansmen paraded four abreast through the streets, the winding column taking 45 minutes to pass by onlookers. One Dayton member of the Night Riders, the Klan’s activist arm, described its purpose as “horse-whipping, tar and feathering, barn burning, bombing—a regular reign of terror.” In 1966, Lester Mitchell was sweeping the sidewalk in front of his house in West Dayton at 3 a.m., when witnesses said three white men drove past, delivering a fatal shotgun blast to his face. Rioting ensued. And in 1994, 11 Knights of the Ku Klux Klan staged a rally in downtown Dayton to recruit new members.
The point isn’t that the Dayton area is some exceptional hotbed of American racism. It’s that it’s a very American city—embodying the nation’s complicated and contradictory history. It’s been home to radical abolitionists and to pro-slavery rioters; to black entrepreneurs and to white segregationists; to civil-rights heroes and to white-sheeted Klansmen. This was true long before the creation of 4chan or the white nationalist rally in Charlottesville; they are not needed to explain it.
Faussett went to Ohio, he wrote, determined to find Hovater’s “Rosebud,” the extraordinary, radicalizing experience that set him on a path to extremism. His reporting contrasts the “quotidian” details of Hovater’s life with the virulence of his beliefs. Ultimately, he conceded, “there is a hole at the heart of my story,” which “would have to serve as both feature and defect,” the inability to explain a white nationalist growing out of an ordinary suburban landscape.
But if Faussett was asking the right question, he may have been looking in the wrong places for answers. Faussett was looking for a radical disjuncture to explain Hovater. But the disjuncture in America’s history is not the emergence of virulent racism, it’s the uneven, often halting progress the nation has made toward greater equality, enlarged tolerance, and defensible rights. It’s a complicated story. It requires understanding what made a man like Dwight hold the nation to its articulated ideals, despite the risks. Or what made a man like Fuller, a mason who laid the bricks for many of his neighbor’s homes, insist that he, too, had the right to live in such a house.
The Hovaters of Ohio, though, are perhaps less mysterious. Ed Dwight would not have been surprised to meet Hovater. Neither would the Fullers, nor the Mitchells, nor the hundreds who rallied against the Klan in downtown Dayton in 1994. They’re a vestige of a long tradition—as American as Applebee’s.


If you had to pick the year Time magazine’s “person of the year” jumped the shark, you’d probably start with 2006. That was when Time looked at the rise of open-publishing platforms like Wikipedia, YouTube, and Facebook, and decided the most influential person was the collective “you.” It was cheesy, trite, and had the exact effect Time wanted: Everybody talked about it.
Time’s annual “person of the year” designation has always been a gimmick, going all the way back to Charles Lindbergh in 1927. Time was once a scrappy upstart, but for decades it was a very serious must-read magazine. Now that the heyday of newsmagazines has receded, the spectrum of people who have ever held a physical copy of Time in their hands has shriveled. Yet the “person of the year” still creates a residual media buzz—attention that, as my colleague David Graham wrote in 2012, really isn’t justified. “Year-end wrap-ups,” he wrote, “simply aren’t news.”
Well, they’re not news until the president of the United States gets involved, anyway.
Donald Trump has always had a gift of making a big deal out of nothing. “I can only say that the press couldn’t get enough,” he wrote in The Art of the Deal in 1987. Back then, he was still trying to figure it out. Now, as president, whipping the press into a frenzy is, for Donald Trump, muscle memory.
“Time Magazine called to say that I was PROBABLY going to be named ‘Man (Person) of the Year,’ like last year,” Trump tweeted on Friday, “but I would have to agree to an interview and a major photo shoot. I said probably is no good and took a pass. Thanks anyway!”
The magazine wasted little time firing back: “The President is incorrect about how we choose Person of the Year. TIME does not comment on our choice until publication, which is December 6.”
“Man of the Year”—it became “person” in 1999—is arguably the Trumpiest possible tradition in magazine journalism. And not just because of Trump’s apparent obsession with appearing on the cover. In June, The Washington Post discovered that what looked like a back issue of Time magazine featuring Trump on the cover—and displayed in at least five of Trump’s clubs—was, in fact, doctored. The fake cover featured a serious looking Trump with twin, glowing assessments: “Donald Trump: The ‘Apprentice’ is a television smash!” and “TRUMP IS HITTING ON ALL FRONTS . . . EVEN TV!” The real issue of Time magazine at the time featured the actress Kate Winslet on the cover.
One can only imagine the conversations that took place among the Time editorial team in the past 24 hours, but one thing almost certainly came up: Trump’s bizarre decision to insert himself into, of all things at this dramatic moment in American life, Time’s pick for a fading print-era tradition is decidedly good for business. (And, by the way, Time actually did name Trump “person of the year” in 2016.) This, at a time when the print-magazine business is generally not thriving. Time’s newsroom is still home to many great journalists, but the economic environment for newsweeklies is absolutely brutal. Remember Newsweek? It once routinely determined the national conversation. Not so anymore. (To answer your question, yes, Newsweek does still exist.) Meanwhile, the Koch brothers are backing the Meredith Corporation’s possible purchase of the storied publication, according to The New York Times.
One way to force people to—if not actually care—pay attention: a defiant tweet from President Trump. On one hand, why on Earth would Donald Trump—the president of the United States, Donald Trump—care what Time magazine is doing? On the other, of course Donald Trump is fixated on Time magazine’s “person of the year” contest. It’s as simultaneously weird and unsurprising as if Trump started griping about room service at the Plaza, or bar service at Elaine’s, or pick-your-own-1990s-New-York-City-reference. Donald Trump is a man whose concept of wealth is all Manhattan circa 1989. And in Manhattan in 1989, Time magazine was the king of the newsstand.
Trump became a public figure and a celebrity at Time’s apex. But more than that, Time is the perfect manifestation of Trump’s attitude toward success. To understand why a person like Donald Trump would gravitate toward a magazine like Time, you have to look at both of their histories.
In the 1980s, when Time was still a cash cow and Trump was still cementing himself as a mainstay on Page Six, Time was a very serious publication and Trump was a semiserious fixture in the tabloids. Cable news—Trump’s preferred journalistic medium today—was still in its infancy. Trump seemed preordained for gossip-rag stardom: There was the personal drama—an ugly divorce, a dramatic altercation in Aspen, the alleged infidelity with a beautiful eventual second wife—and, of course, the very public bankruptcy and surprising redemption. Trump enjoyed relentless pop-cultural relevance through it all—he had a cameo in Home Alone 2, remember—and seemed forever destined for B-list celebrity at best. Looking back at the media landscape of Trump’s younger years, the idea of Trump on the cover of Time seemed as silly as Trump buying the Plaza Hotel, or being elected president of the United States.
Donald Trump, we now know, is a man who is energized by the improbable.
Trump’s wealth—and the persona he built around it—has always been aspirational. The sprawling expanses of cold marble, the New Jersey gold fixtures, the aggressively nouveau riche aesthetic. The superlatives that spill so easily from Trump’s lips—everything’s the biggest, and the best, and the most. Time wasn’t so different at first. The magazine was founded by rich men playing with their fathers’ money—no member of the founding staff was more than three years out of college, the magazine’s historian Theodore Peterson once wrote. As my colleague Robinson Meyer and I wrote of Time in 2015, Time became the most powerful media instrument of mid-century America. In the early 1980s, as Trump was rising to fame, Time was absolutely flush with cash:
“So flush,” John Podhoretz wrote in Commentary, describing what it was like to work for Time in the 1980s, “that the first week I was there, the World section had a farewell lunch for a writer who was being sent to Paris to serve as bureau chief ... at Lutèce, the most expensive restaurant in Manhattan, for 50 people. So flush that if you stayed past 8, you could take a limousine home ... and take it anywhere, including to the Hamptons if you had weekend plans there. So flush that if a writer who lived, say, in suburban Connecticut, stayed late writing his article that week, he could stay in town at a hotel of his choice.”
All of it sounds absurd today, as over-the-top as the very idea of “person of the year.”
In 2006, when Time’s person of the year was “you,” Trump was riding out a triumphant phase in what had become a roller coaster of successes and setbacks—still basking in his fame as the host of The Apprentice, a reality game show on NBC.
Trump was 60 years old then, yet the experience was still formative in a way. The Apprentice was a hit, and it was measured in television ratings. Even when Trump became president of the United States of America—a spectacle so much bigger than any game show—he fixated on the size of the inauguration crowd. Old habits.
The man who wrote the Time story in 2006, the celebration of “you,” described his methodology at the time: “When you’re picking Time’s Person of the Year, you play a little bit historian of the future. What is the story of 2006 that people will remember? And more, I think, than any of the political or military stories, the shift in power from consumers of media becoming producers of the media ... that will really change a lot of things.”
Trump’s tweets are proof of this shift, evidence that Time’s “person of the year” pick in 2006 was actually prescient. Trump’s very presidency is not easily disentangled from this. Time matters to Trump, not just because of the narcissism it takes to care in the first place—let alone tweet about it—but because Time and Trump both arose in a bygone era. A moment of wealth and possibility in New York, and by extension America. Time always saw itself as the magazine for a very specific kind of American greatness. Trump, he swears, is just the same.


The Museum of the Bible has officially opened its doors, flanked by two giant golden tablets of scripture. The building stands just blocks from the National Mall and offices of the House of Representatives; the top floor offers a spectacular view of the Capitol nearby. Unlike the taxpayer-funded Smithsonian, the museum is privately owned. Even so, it has been positioned by its creators as a national museum, physically placing America’s religious history at its political center.
Other private institutions—the Newseum, Madame Tussauds, the Spy Museum—also dot downtown Washington, but the best comparison points for the Museum of the Bible are actually thousands of miles away. The Israel Museum, along with its next-door neighbor, the Bible Lands Museum, are both strategically positioned in Jerusalem’s central hub of universities, government buildings, libraries, and banks. They both use ancient artifacts to tell a story about national identity and to emphasize religious history. And like the Museum of the Bible, their claims to authority are contested.
What's Missing from the Museum of the Bible
While skeptics charged that the Museum of the Bible would be limited to promoting the worldview of its evangelical funders, the project is actually bigger and more ambitious: emphasizing and reinforcing the roots of America’s national identity in the Bible. This story is uncommon to Washington, but it’s precious to millions of people around the country—and may establish the Museum of the Bible as a powerful hub in the capital.
Prior to the museum’s opening, scholars and literati raised concerns about its leadership and methods—including in a feature story in The Atlantic. Steve Green, the influential evangelical businessman who runs the Hobby Lobby crafts-supply chain, spearheaded the project. Under his guidance, the museum acquired artifacts at an extraordinary pace, collecting roughly 40,000 objects over the course of just six or seven years. This summer, Hobby Lobby paid a $3 million fine to the U.S. government for purchasing ancient artifacts illegally smuggled out of Iraq. The Greens have also been controversial in recent years for their role in the Supreme Court case Burwell v. Hobby Lobby, which challenged the birth-control mandate in the Affordable Care Act on religious grounds.
In recent weeks, the museum has been challenged for its biases—not enough attention to Islam, too much faith in the Protestant idea of sola scriptura,which teaches that the Bible speaks for itself. Scholars have also expressed doubt about the authenticity of its Dead Sea Scroll fragments, which allegedly come from the massive cache of biblical manuscripts discovered in the Qumran Caves of the Judean Desert.
But in large part, the culture-war boogeyman some expected has not materialized in the museum’s display cases. “All the mystery is gone,” said Jeremy Burton, the director of communications. “Are we going to be evangelicals? Are we going to be not enough Jesus? Judge for yourself.”
Strolling through the exhibits, it’s clear the museum has a story to tell about the arc of the Bible, from its roots in ancient Israel to its role as a worldwide political and cultural force today. The layout has a zigzagging logic, starting with antiquities and “Amazing Grace” in the basement, art from the Vatican on the ground level, displays on the Bible’s contemporary significance on the second floor, reconstructed historical scenes on the third, and finally the history of the Bible and more antiquities on the fourth and fifth. The varied and engaging formats seem targeted at the non-scholarly observer. The vastness of the museum sometimes feels like the point. Colorful book displays show just how many languages the Bible has been translated into; winding galleries encompass a history that stretches from antiquity to the Jewish teacher Maimonides, who shows up in animated form, through the Protestant reformer Martin Luther, also animated.
The museum emphasizes the ties between Judaism and Christianity and seeks to anchor the Bible in ancient lands. Some of the most prominent ancient objects are actually on loan from Israel, including a temporary display from the Bible Lands Museum and a long-term exhibit curated by the Israeli Antiquities Authority. At the museum’s dedication, Israeli Ambassador Ron Dermer placed a mezuzah, a small box with Hebrew verses tucked inside, on the doorway to the Israeli antiquities gallery as Rabbi Stuart Weinblatt, the head of the rabbinic cabinet of the Jewish Federations of North America, said a blessing and joked about placement technique. The rabbi found it meaningful that the museum emphasizes the Bible’s link to the land of Israel. “If you like the book, you’ll love the country,” he told me.
The strong Israeli footprint in the museum is no accident. It’s not just that the Bible has its roots in Jewish civilization. The new museum is also trying to tell a story of American identity that’s similar to the narratives presented by similar Israeli institutions, with religious civilization at its center.
“Imagine bringing the word of God into the nation’s capital.”
Around the time of Israel’s founding, leaders “realized that if there was something that could unite all of the Jews all over the world, it was the Hebrew bible,” said Adolfo Roitman, the curator of the Shrine of the Book, which houses the Dead Sea Scrolls collection at the Israel Museum in Jerusalem. “The Hebrew bible became central to the identity of the nation.” Ancient artifacts played an important role in the country’s project to establish itself as a distinctively Jewish nation. Placing the Dead Sea Scrolls—“our Mona Lisa,” Roitman called them—in a museum next to buildings like the Knesset, Israel’s parliament, and the Israeli Supreme Court formalized the Jewish character of the government. “We function, and we are seen by the visitors, as the national museum,” Roitman said, “even though we are not.”
Something similar is at work with the Museum of the Bible. “Imagine bringing the word of God into the nation’s capital,” said Cardinal Donald Wuerl, who heads the Catholic archdiocese of Washington. Rick Warren, the California megachurch pastor who serves on the board of the museum, was similarly pleased with the location. It “had to be in the capital,” he told me at the opening.
Although the museum takes a global perspective on the Bible, it is preoccupied with the question of whether America is a biblically rooted nation. While the exhibits portray some conflicting views, the message is clear: The country was forged through Christianity. Video clips show black-shirted actors reciting speeches from the Founding Fathers on religious freedom and the importance of Christianity. Displays explore how Christian preachers used the Bible to justify slavery, revisit the 1920s Scopes trial over evolution, and highlight the Supreme Court’s role in shaping public prayer. Careful attention is paid to the black-church tradition and the history of gospel music; Martin Luther King Jr. figures prominently in the contemporary gallery on the second floor.
It is a one-sided story of America, or perhaps a multi-faceted look at a limited narrative of history. The museum is not focused on non-Christian religious minorities or secular culture; it’s not all that interested in the deism of Thomas Jefferson or the Ku Klux Klan’s religiously justified violence. Perhaps that’s not the mission—after all, the museum is dedicated to the story of the Bible. The question is whether its telling is too neat and straightforward, or whether it presents a narrative its visitors are expecting to find.
This is not an easy challenge to overcome—and it’s common to all curators. At the Israel Museum, for example, “most of the people who come to the [Shrine of the Book] are non-Jews,” said Roitman. “They are looking for Jesus. They are looking for John the Baptist. They want very much to make the linkage between these artifacts and the characters [in the New Testament].” While all curation involves some sort of interpretation, he said, “I’m very careful not to say what they expect from me to say.”
Museums constantly have to grapple with the question of who they’re for—and in the case of Bible-related museums, whether they have a pluralistic or particular interpretation of what the Bible is. “We do not teach religion,” said Amanda Weiss, who oversees the Bible Lands Museum in Jerusalem. “We are a universal institution for people of all faiths. We take that extremely seriously, because the Bible is a history book that has been written by many different hands over generations.” The idea that a museum could present the Bible through the lens of multiple cultures is relatively new in the world of museums, Weiss said: When she first started, “to talk about the Jewish roots of Christianity, people would look at you like you were a little bit crazy.”
The museum may disappoint those who expect to “be hit over the head with Christianity.”
The Museum of the Bible is a strong signal that alliances between certain communities of Jews and American Christians are becoming more common, in that it emphasizes a shared Jewish-Christian history of the book. And the museum’s leaders claim to take a universal approach to the Bible, similar to Weiss’s. “We want to make sure we’re inclusive … to not over-represent some groups over others,” said Seth Pollinger, the director of content at the museum. “We’re not focusing on proving or demonstrating the truth of what’s in the Bible or advocating its historical accuracy.”
It has had to overcome significant suspicions in the process, though. When Weiss first considered a partnership with the Museum of the Bible, she was wary of proselytization. Eventually, she agreed to a joint exhibit in Jerusalem. After “some bumps on the road,” including a misunderstanding over displaying a depiction of the crucifixion in a museum heavily trafficked by observant Jews, “the learning curve of the Museum of the Bible team was phenomenal,” she said. Weiss keeps a picture of herself, Steve Green, the Museum of the Bible’s president Cary Summers, and Benjamin Netanyahu on the wall of her office.
The memento is an appropriate symbol of the Museum of the Bible, which was brought to life by powerful backers. During the opening ceremony, the gospel giant CeCe Winans sang “Amazing Grace” and her song “Let Them Fall in Love,” asking God to bless those who don’t follow him. Eric and Lara Trump, the president’s son and daughter-in-law, were among the attendees at the museum’s opening gala. Earlier this year, museum leaders hosted a luncheon that included Department of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos and several cabinet-secretary spouses, according to Johnnie Moore, who runs a Christian public-relations firm. He estimated that “easily … half” of America’s most influential and affluent evangelical families took part in the museum’s opening festivities.
While the museum may disappoint those who hope or fear “to walk in the door and … be hit over the head with Christianity every step of the way,” as Weiss put it, it is still a remarkable assertion of American religious identity in the nation’s capital. Those who visit now have “this other point of reference,” Wuerl said. “A political point of reference, and a spiritual one.”


Never has the United States elected a more accomplished man to the presidency than Herbert Clark Hoover, whose organizational genius saved millions of lives from famine and destitution. Never has the ensuing presidency been marked by worse disasters.
That paradox has energized every biographer of Hoover, from William Leuchtenberg’s brilliant brief study to the massive six-volume collective effort headed by George Nash (which I must confess from the start to having “read in,” but never to have actually “read”).
The paradox again energizes the latest of the biographies, by Kenneth Whyte, released last month. (I should mention here that Whyte was the founding editor of a newspaper to which I contributed a column between 1998 and 2013.)
The central question in assessing a new contribution to Hoover studies is to ask, “What new contribution does it offer to resolving the Hoover paradox?”
Or perhaps I should say paradoxes, for there is more than one. Here’s the first:
Almost as soon as he entered office, Hoover was presented with the severest economic crisis of modern times, the Great Depression. The U.S. economy slipped into reverse in August 1929, not even five months after Hoover took office. Counter to later partisan mythmaking, Hoover did not passively submit to the crisis. He worked tirelessly and creatively to mitigate its pain and reignite economic growth. But his efforts largely failed, and often made things worse. The greatest problem-solver ever to enter the presidency miserably failed to solve the greatest problem ever presented to a president.
Now the second:
Few if any Americans have dedicated more of their lives to the service of others than Hoover. A wealthy man by age 40, he turned his back on opportunities to earn more—and dissipated much of what he had gained—to devote himself to humanitarian work. As a private citizen, he organized food relief for German-occupied Belgium during the First World War. He undertook an even more ambitious task of rescue in Russia and Ukraine during the civil war that followed the Bolshevik seizure of power. Then, as commerce secretary, he took charge of the response to the devastating flooding of the Mississippi Valley in 1927: floods that drove hundreds of thousands from their homes to temporary camps and left the region in economic shambles.
It wasn’t just that Hoover did these things well. He invented the idea that these things could be done at all, or at least done on any large scale.
Yet this hugely compassionate person was also a high-handed authoritarian, morbidly sensitive to criticism. Undemonstrative and withdrawn, the hyperactive Hoover perversely presented an image of indifference to a society that—thanks to the spread of radio—had just for the first time been introduced to the appearance of direct personal contact with its president.
Kenneth Whyte addresses both these paradoxes with scholarship, insight, and verve—even as he chafes against them. Whyte summons us to see Hoover as a human personality, more than just a walking embodiment of Great Depression studies. Hoover’s personality was the product of origins and early career that Whyte attentively details. Hoover lived for 30 productive years after losing office in 1932, and Whyte does just to those years too. Hoover would be called back into public service by President Truman to rationalize and reshape the U.S. government. The creation of the Department of Defense out of quarreling armed services owes much to Hoover, as does the Office of Management and Budget, a president’s most powerful tool for setting priorities. Hoover’s non-disaster work at the Commerce Department would constitute an honorable career in its own right. From the collection of unemployment statistics to the standardization of sizes for industrial parts, from the encouragement of aviation to the creation of property rights in radio frequencies—even had Hoover quit politics in 1928, he would still have shaped the modern American economy more than any cabinet secretary since Alexander Hamilton.
But the Great Depression is always there, at the center of the story. It’s critical to Hoover’s place in history—and his legacy to American politics.
Beneath the opening credits of the 1970s sitcom All in the Family, actors Carroll O’Connor and Jean Stapleton sing a song that includes the lyric, “Mister, we could use a man like Herbert Hoover again.” In a big country, almost anything is statistically possible. But as a matter of probability, it’s exceedingly unlikely that a working-class New Yorker born in 1924, Archie Bunker’s biography, would have had anything good to say about Hoover. The political drama of the 1970s was the movement of people like Archie away from their inherited loyalty to Franklin Roosevelt’s party into Richard Nixon’s, Ronald Reagan’s—and now Donald Trump’s.
To encourage and hasten that movement, the conservative intellectual world of the time condemned Hoover fully as fiercely as any Democratic partisan had ever done. He had signed the Smoot-Hawley tariff. He had raised taxes in 1931. Calvin Coolidge and even the intensely mediocre Warren Harding were championed and rehabilitated. Hoover was blamed for wrecking their prosperous legacy. When Ronald Reagan, always conscious of himself as the great historic bookend to Franklin Roosevelt, ordered a portrait of a precursor for his Cabinet room, he selected Coolidge, not Hoover.
None of this made intellectual or historical sense. The Republicans of the 1920s had passed—and Warren Harding had signed—a much more burdensome tariff than Smoot-Hawley in 1922. It was the 1922 tariff that barred European exports from the U.S. marketplace. That tariff compelled nations rebuilding themselves from the First World War to obtain dollars by piling peacetime borrowing atop wartime borrowing, rather than by running trade surpluses, as economic theory would recommend. If tariffs caused the Depression, Harding and Coolidge should have shared it.
Hoover did indeed raise taxes in 1931. He did so because the alternative was to quit the gold standard, as Britain would do in September 1931. Under the gold standard of the time, the United States promised to sell an ounce of gold for $20.67 to anyone who wanted to buy it. In times of budget deficits, more speculators would buy gold—confronting the United States with the risk of running out. The only way to stop such runs on the bank was by raising interest rates and balancing budgets. Hoover’s critics are right that this was precisely the wrong thing to do in 1931. But many of them also passionately championed a gold standard that required the policies they opposed. This was not tenable.
The conservative attack on Hoover in the 1970s originated not in his actual record, but by an ideological hunt for usable heroes. Since Harding and Coolidge occupied the presidency in sunnier days, they were adopted—even though their policies had much more to do with bringing on the Depression than anything Hoover did. Hoover was assigned the villain’s part, to punish him for his bad timing.
Yet it’s also true that the embittered post-presidential Hoover self-harmed his own reputation. Hoover commenced his political life as a progressive-leaning Republican. Terms like “progressive”—and, worse, its antonyms like “Old Guard”—artificially impose an order that may have been lacking in real life. But speaking very broadly, progressives like Hoover championed scientific expertise and disliked patronage politics; accepted some increased government regulation of industry; preferred lower tariffs to higher; favored more U.S. involvement to keep the postwar peace rather than less; and were more open to forgiving war reparations and war debts rather than insisting on full payment. Hoover could fuse those attitudes with a very individualist appreciation of the free enterprise system. But—a truly self-made man—Hoover disliked hereditary advantages and endorsed heavier taxation of inheritances. In a different world somehow bypassed by the Great Depression, it’s possible to imagine a Hoover presidency that signed into law some kind of Social Security system—a concept endorsed by Theodore Roosevelt when he ran for president on a progressive line in 1912.
But the Depression did happen, and Hoover was left against the machinations and defamations of Franklin Roosevelt. Roosevelt was the last president to be inaugurated in March rather than January. Hoover sought to involve his successor in decision making over the five months between election and inauguration—in particular, in negotiations to resolve the international debt problem and to stop the competitive devaluations by which the major economies sought advantage over one another. Perhaps it was not yet too late to save German democracy.
Roosevelt refused all cooperation, while simultaneously sabotaging Hoover’s own ability to lead during the interim. Hoover and his wife Lou to the end believed that Roosevelt had intentionally sought to aggravate chaos over the winter to make himself look better in the spring. Via that resentment, Hoover reached more radical politics in his post-presidential years. He urged U.S. isolation from the coming war between Nazi Germany and the European democracies. He hoped for a war between Stalin and Hitler by which each would destroy the other—and half of Europe as well, presumably—without the United States having to involve itself. His economic individualism—hitherto balanced by his social conscience—became more extreme. Whyte calls Hoover “the father of the new conservatism” that was born after World War II, the conservatism of Bill Buckley and Barry Goldwater and Ronald Reagan and Paul Ryan, a conservatism that sustained the fight against the New Deal order through a second depression that could easily have proved as destructive as the first. The tribute seems both apt and ironic, given how those same conservatives would eventually defame him as badly as his Rooseveltian rival ever had.
But everything changes. Whatever else the Trump presidency is doing and has done, it has closed the book on that old “new conservatism.” It’s early to perceive what will succeed it, but it won’t be that. And when the time for succession comes, Hoover’s old party could learn things from his impressive career of public service. Among the great services of Ken Whyte’s elegant, lively, and witty biography is its unceasing reminder of this other Hoover. “If we want this civilization to march forward toward higher economic standards, to moral and spiritual ideals,” Hoover argued in a 1926 speech, “it will march only on the feet of healthy children.” The father of the new conservatism had earlier been also the founding president of the American Child Health Association, the exhorter of state governments to build state health clinics and hospitals for children, like Oregon’s Doernbecher hospital, established that same year.
Hoover’s astounding accomplishments and generous impulses have been effaced by polemical narratives written to serve polemical political purposes. Such distortions are offenses against historical memory. Yet it would prove an interesting irony if justice is finally done to Herbert Hoover not for historical reasons alone, but also because in the unceasing ideological quarrying of the American past, this great man and execrated president has proven himself useful again. To understand Hoover’s life, career, and his legacy in full, this rich new biography will certainly prove indispensable.


BALTIMORE—Sitting in a classroom one day in September, a police officer studied a passage from James Baldwin’s 1966 essay on policing in Harlem, “A Report from Occupied Territory,” and read a few lines out loud: “Some school children overturned a fruit stand in Harlem. This would have been a mere childish prank if the children had been white … but these children were black, and the police chased them and beat them.”
An instructor, standing in the back of the room, pressed the cop for his reaction: “Tell me, does that give you any basis for our understanding of any modern circumstance?”
It was humanities hour at the city police department’s in-service training facility, and Detective Ed Gillespie was presiding, a gun on his hip and literature on his lips. Officer training is front and center in the national conversation about police reform, with advocates and progressive police departments alike promoting lessons on de-escalation, implicit bias, and the like. Gillespie thinks cops need something else, too: the humanities. In his classes, he teaches them Plato, Steinbeck, Dostoevsky, and Baldwin.
About 10 minutes after their initial exchange, the same officer spoke up. “It’s 1966, so policing a white neighborhood [versus] a black neighborhood was completely different. Black neighborhood was looked down upon, and [to] this day and age, some people are still carrying that fear,” said the officer, a white man who’s a veteran of the force. “They’ve heard stories from their grandparents and stuff like that. And look, it hasn’t been that long ago …”
Gillespie agreed that the events of the ’60s were recent enough. “No,” the officer persisted. “I’m talking about even in my career—that has happened, you know? That [if] you ran, you got your punishment when you got caught.”
This connection between literature and everyday life is exactly what Gillespie hopes to facilitate. Police officers, he told me, “deal with the human condition constantly.” Books offer people “a safe way to look at circumstances and ask yourself, ‘What does this tell us about us? … What does this tell me about myself? What does this tell me about the human condition?’”
And, more to the point: “What does this tell you, officer, about policing?”
***
Since Freddie Gray suffered a fatal injury in the back of a Baltimore police van in 2015, setting off days of protest and rioting, the city has been pushing through a wrenching overhaul of its police department even as violent crime has surged to unprecedented levels.
Gillespie works in the division that teaches retraining courses. Once a year, every cop is pulled off the street and thrown into the classroom to take refreshers and learn new policing techniques. This in-service training used to last for one week. This year, the commissioner doubled it, requiring far more hours than many other departments.
Drawing on his master of liberal arts degree from Johns Hopkins University, the 48-year-old Gillespie teaches a curriculum that includes bite-sized chunks of literature, philosophy, and history. “You can get so into the outcomes, into the methods, [that] you don’t look at the ethic with which you’re operating in many cases,” Gillespie said. “And we’re trying to get officers to delve into it.”
In a course on Plato, he introduces officers to the philosopher’s idea of the tripartite soul, which can be governed by the intellect, by the “spirit,” or by the appetites. Gillespie has his students discuss real stories of police misconduct in Platonic terms. “The ultimate point is that you have to … take a moment, and stop and use your intellect, and ask, ‘What’s driving me right now?’” he explained to me.
Gillespie is trained to teach nuts-and-bolts courses on terrorism response, extremism, and gangs. But since the unrest of 2015, humanities have occupied the bulk of his time. The strategy is unusual in police training. “I’ve been doing this a long time and I’ve never heard of an instructor using this type of approach,” said William Terrill, a criminal-justice professor at Arizona State University who studies police culture.
But he nevertheless understands the general theory behind it. He’s authored studies showing that officers with higher education are less likely to use force than colleagues who have not been to college. The reasons why are unclear, Terrill said, but it’s possible that exposure to unfamiliar ideas and diverse people have an effect on officer behavior. Gillespie’s classes seem to offer a complement to the typical instruction. Most of it “is mechanical in nature,” Terrill said. “It’s kind of this step-by-step, instructional booklet.”
Officers learn how to properly approach a car, say, but they are rarely given tools to imagine the circumstances of the person in the driver’s seat.
***
When he enrolled as a cadet in 2005, Gillespie’s police-academy instructors assumed he was there to write a book. When he brought reading to an assignment that involved a lot of waiting around, his supervisor told him to stop. Another cop once said to him, “You say some good shit, but I just hate the way you fucking talk.”
Gillespie related these stories to me with enthusiasm as a window into police culture and the discomfort some officers have around issues of education. “I feel comfortable here,” he explained, “but definitely, I’m kind of an odd man out.”
He was raised in the Philadelphia suburbs; educated at a private, Quaker school; and attended George Washington University and Hopkins. As an undergraduate at George Washington, he enrolled in ROTC, intending to become a Marine Corps officer. But an injury forced him to drop out of the program. Gillespie became a teacher instead, working at elementary, middle, and high schools in Maryland and Ohio. His master’s-level classes at Johns Hopkins were scheduled to begin on September 11, 2001. After the attack, Gillespie decided that once his studies were done, he would try again to find a career in public safety.
Gillespie, who is black, started as a patrol officer in Sandtown-Winchester, a low-income neighborhood in West Baltimore where police would later arrest Gray. “I never had any experience with anything resembling Sandtown-Winchester. When I went to work there as a law-enforcement officer, the culture shock was just unbelievable,” Gillespie told me. “And it had nothing to do with race. It was about economics, it was about … personal history.”
In class, Gillespie frequently refers back to his patrol experience. He raised his discomfort with Sandtown when I visited, addressing one student, a former colleague, directly: “You sir, you, working the central [district], pulled me aside more than once and said, ‘You know what, the way you talked to that person wasn’t really professional.’ … You really helped me recognize I had biases about dealing with people in Sandtown.”
Gillespie’s personal stories remind officers that he is one of them, not an ivory-tower critic. At the same time, he argues that front-line police need to understand the roots of their work. “Tradition is a big thing for officers, and we are in the tradition of the western world,” Gillespie said. “We’re kind of government on the ground. I mean, we have to represent democratic values. We have to represent those Enlightenment values in a very immediate way.”
Cops also need to embrace the complexity of their jobs, he suggested. “We’ve reached a stage at which policing has to be taken seriously as a profession”—not just, as cops often call it, “the job.”
“I heard a lot of officers talk in terms of how simplistic it is,” he told me. But “it’s actually very complex. And it takes a sophisticated thinker.”
***
On the day Gillespie was teaching Baldwin, he asked the 25 assembled officers to do some brainstorming on the meaning of various terms essential to policing, like “neutrality” or “respect.” The conversation about “respect” turned to the way officers interact with people from different communities. One officer assailed the notion that cops should employ a uniform style. He raised the scenario of a kid loitering on a corner in the Gilmor Homes, a public-housing complex in Sandtown.
“I’m like, ‘Shorty, come here. You can’t be here. Come on. Go on. You know better than this.’ … He gets that. That’s not disrespectful to him,” the officer said. “I can’t [say], ‘Young man, you have to leave this corner’ —’cause then he doesn’t get that.”
The same language would not work in tony Roland Park, the officer said: “It’s not a disrespect to either one,” he explained. “It’s communicating at a level that they understand.”
The fact that a Roland Park resident lingering on a corner is much less likely to be shooed away did not come up. But the officers were nevertheless grappling with what they see on the beat. As others chimed in, they were emphatic that their goal was to show respect.
Gillespie told me they aren’t always so easy to engage. That day, he handed one group a sheet of paper with the word “cynicism.” “I’m cynical about all of this,” groused a rotund detective. Later, the same group was contemplating the meaning of “procedural justice”—the notion that justice hinges not just on fair decisions, but also on fair processes for making those decisions. The detective declared that it means officers must “treat everyone with kid gloves.” A colleague replied: “Policing’s changed.”
There’s no way to assess whether Gillespie’s teaching has actually made a difference on the street. Two policing experts I spoke with said that a few hours a year is unlikely to have much impact. Maria Haberfeld co-directs a program that offers free courses on ethics, leadership, and diversity to New York City Police Department officers. The NYPD Police Studies program, at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, is a four-course sequence that cops take in addition to their day jobs, often as a first step to pursuing a full degree.
“In-service training is just a Band-Aid,” said Haberfeld, a professor at John Jay. If the goal is to change how people talk or think, she added, “You cannot do it in two hours or two days.”
Gillespie agrees that his classes are just a small nudge, but he remains optimistic about what they might achieve. “We’re building a culture, so it has to be something that’s progressive,” he said.
My efforts to speak with Baltimore police brass about why they support Gillespie’s work were unsuccessful. But the fact that they’ve made his curriculum part of routine training is significant. Police culture is unlikely to change simply in response to pressure from outsiders. It can take insiders to make new ideas seem legitimate, like something real cops talk about.
That’s what Gillespie does. And he understands that not every conversation will take off. “In many cases, officers feel like they’re somewhat under siege. ‘Why are you criticizing me again? Why are you trying to tell me things I already know? Why are you implying I’m racist, implying I’m biased?’” he said. “And then they kind of shut down.”
Or the opposite can happen. The class I observed saw a heated round of venting about how social problems—from family arguments to mental illness—fall into the laps of police. Gillespie had to remind the officers to calm down.
Later, he told me it’s all part of the process. “You have to let them go and bring it back around to the point that you’re trying to make,” he said. “By letting them talk, they’re more open to hear.”


Since President Trump assumed office, the government has taken what some historians are calling an “unprecedented” approach to the protection of U.S. land. This summer, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke reviewed and suggested modifying 10 national monuments; Trump reportedly said that he planned to shrink at least two, Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante; a House bill was introduced that would limit the president’s power to protect land; and a Senate budget resolution could open a wildlife refuge to drilling.
To some degree, the administration’s actions fall in line with the conservative stance on the protection of land—conservatives generally argue for increased deregulation and economic development of land, while liberals call for wilderness preservation. But never before has the country seen an administration, coupled with a Republican-controlled Congress, that is so clearly intent on rolling back existing land protections.
It’s difficult to imagine what the United States would be like without federally protected land—without Mount Rushmore, or Yellowstone, or the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. But 120 years ago, such was the case: The government played a negligible role in protecting and managing its resources. The Industrial Revolution was just taking off; loggers, miners, and settlers were reaping the benefits of a complete lack of regulations, and consuming resources at inconceivable rates. Lawmakers in Washington, meanwhile, were focused on matters like immigration and monetary policy.
It was in this arena that John Muir, a conservationist who would help to fundamentally shift the the way the country thought about its land, wrote these words in The Atlantic’s 1897 August issue: “Notwithstanding all the waste and use which have been going on unchecked like a storm for more than two centuries, it is not yet too late, though it is high time, for the government to begin a rational administration of its forests.”
Will Trump Change the Way Presidents Approach National Monuments?
It was this vision—expanded to include not only America’s forests, but also her mountains and canyons, plains and oceans—that would come to be recognized as the country’s “best idea.” In Presidents and the American Environment, historian Otis Graham writes that by the late 1800s, widely-circulated articles like Muir’s had brought the issue into public consciousness. Sportsmen, too, were alarmed by the marked decline in certain species due to over-hunting and deforestation, and pushed for natural-resource regulation. Congress, “intermittently unhappy with the situation on the public lands,” began taking into account complaints from these small, elite groups—conservationists, hunters, and scientifically-minded bureaucrats alike.  
When Theodore Roosevelt, a naturalist and hunter who was also friends with Muir, assumed the presidency in 1901, he made land protection a priority. The convergence of increasing public awareness and governmental concern spurred a “social and political mobilization,” according to Graham.  
The Antiquities Act, signed by Roosevelt in 1906, was the clearest example of this shift: It gave presidents the power to protect land by declaring national monuments. The act was brief, specifying that the sites need only be “objects of historic and scientific interest” to warrant protection. Over time, government-owned land became an intrinsic part of American life—a reflection of the country’s principles. “The parks do not belong to one state or to one section,” said Stephen Tyng Mather, who served as the first director of the National Park Service from 1917 to 1929. “They have been democratized.”
Today, over 630 million acres of U.S. land are protected through various designations. Last year, nearly 331 million people—more than the country’s entire population—visited national parks.
Still, land preservation has been a point of contention between Republicans and Democrats for years, from William Howard Taft’s quiet revision of some of Roosevelt’s monuments to a drawn-out battle surrounding Grand Teton National Park. Michael Kraft, co-author of Environmental Policy: New Directions for the Twenty-First Century, said that Republicans are generally less supportive of “protecting large swaths of land” because of economic interests and what they see as an “abuse of power” by some presidents. “But the prevailing pattern is that presidents of both parties have [made designations],” he said.
Indeed, save for Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, and George H.W. Bush, every president since Roosevelt has declared national monuments; Congress, under constitutional power, has protected millions of acres more through national-park or wilderness-preserve designations. No president has succeeded in eliminating a designation made by a predecessor.  
It was Jimmy Carter’s presidency, though, that ushered in our “modern era of environmental policy,” according to historian Pete Andrews—one in which land protection became an overtly partisan issue. Carter’s push to protect land in Alaska toward the end of his term in 1980 sparked backlash from Republicans—most notably, his successor Ronald Reagan.
Congress had been debating how to manage land in Alaska since its inception as a state in 1958. During his campaign, Carter listed preserving wilderness in Alaska as one of his initiatives—a move that conservationists heralded but Alaskan businessmen saw as an economic disaster, given that oil and gas production at the time was the largest source of unrestricted revenue for the state. In 1978, faced with a Congress still unable to settle on a decision, Carter used his Antiquities Act power to protect 56 million acres of land there himself. The move prompted protest from Alaskan residents but pushed lawmakers to strike a compromise.
In the last days of Carter’s tenure, a lame-duck Congress finally passed the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act to reconcile conservationists’ demands and an impending Republican president. In the end, 104 million acres (some of which a Senate Energy panel recently voted to open to drilling) were made into national parks, reserves, forests, or fish and wildlife preserves.
But Carter’s unilateral actions carried a legacy: He designated more land than any previous president in a single sweep, which caused many people to become aware of, and rail against, the potential uses of the Antiquities Act. Land protection turned into a tug-of-war between advocates of environmental interests versus economic ones, of regulation versus deregulation, and of big versus small government.
“You could say that Jimmy Carter was the first recent president to use the monument designation strategically in order to basically force Congress to act, or to get around Congress,” said Norman Vig, co-author of Environmental Policy. “That was a big deal.”  
When Reagan first assumed office, he was expected to dismantle many of Carter’s regulations—not unlike what Trump has done to many of Obama’s policies. Reagan’s first secretary of the interior, James Watt, who’s regarded as one of the most conservative leaders the department has seen, believed that expanding offshore drilling and oil exploration in wilderness reserves would be economically beneficial for the government. Zinke has posed a similar argument.
Following in Carter’s footsteps, Democratic Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama exercised their land-protection power extensively. Obama established or enlarged 27 monuments, more than any president, and in turn drew biting criticism from Republicans.
One of Obama’s most controversial designations was Bears Ears National Monument in Utah. As my colleague Robinson Meyer reported, while locals and environmentalists agreed that much of Bears Ears should be protected, Republicans wanted at least some of the area freed up for potential commercial use or natural-gas extraction. Republicans saw the designation as an example of federal overreach.
“It’s the intrusiveness of the federal government that is unrelenting,” Representative Rob Bishop of Utah, the chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources and a long-time critic of the Antiquities Act, told my colleague Michelle Cottle. This past October, Bishop’s committee marked up and approved an Antiquities Act-reform bill that would require additional review before presidents make designations, and would give them power to reduce existing monuments through the same process.
No other president has revoked a previous designation, so its legality remains in question: While the Antiquities Act grants presidents the power to declare national monuments, it does not stipulate anything about reductions or removals.
Zinke’s recommendations, according to historians I spoke with, are reminiscent of the Reagan administration. “This is certainly the most aggressive effort to open public lands since James Watt, without question,” Vig said. But while Reagan and Watt’s stance was notably conservative, Trump is the first president to take overt actions to reverse current policy.
The National Park Service defended Zinke’s work. “Secretary Zinke has taken a number of actions to ensure that national parks are protected and preserved in perpetuity by addressing the NPS maintenance backlog,” a spokesperson for the Park Service said in a statement.
If history serves as a blueprint, the future remains uncertain for Trump’s rollbacks. Ultimately, most of Reagan’s initiatives ended up failing. Watt resigned amidst extremely low approval ratings and a Democratic-majority Senate resolution to remove him. His ousting, coupled with criticism from Congress, forced Reagan to largely abandon his initial push for deregulation.
The Trump administration will also likely face its own set of challenges. Pending an official announcement by the White House expected in early December, several environmental groups have promised to bring lawsuits if any changes are made to Bears Ears or Grand Staircase-Escalante, which was designated by Bill Clinton in 1996.
Back in 1897, Muir cited advances, from the increased protection of forests to the creation of “spacious parks in all the great cities,” as indicators of an “awakening of public opinion.” In a 2017 Western States survey, 80 percent of respondents said that existing national-monument designations for public lands should be kept in place.
Muir likely foresaw this. He ended his essay hopefully: “In the long run the world does not move backward.”


BROOKLYN, N.Y.—Spend even a little time in Kings County Criminal Court, and a pattern to the proceedings quickly emerges. A person recently arrested in Brooklyn is brought before a judge to be arraigned. An assistant district attorney asks the judge to set bail. The judge, without asking whether the defendant can afford the payment, offers him two unworkable choices: Post the full amount of bail now or pay a visit to the bail bondsman, an expensive proposition.
Most are forced to default to a third option: Unable to put up the cash, the defendant is left to spend weeks and months—in some cases, even years—at the widely condemned jail complex on Rikers Island. There, the defendant awaits trial as one of more than 7,000 inmates—about three-quarters of New York City’s jail population—convicted of no crime and detained only because they can’t buy their freedom. The whole arraignment takes no more than a few minutes, and then it’s on to the next one.
Public defenders in Brooklyn are in the process of launching a new initiative intended to disrupt this pattern. When a judge sets bail that a defendant can’t afford, the Brooklyn Defenders Service will systematically challenge the judge’s order. If that fails, they’ll appeal it. The goal of the project is to begin to repair New York City’s long-criticized bail system by persuading and incentivizing judges to focus on bail’s essential purpose: It’s collateral meant to guarantee a criminal defendant’s return to court, not punishment for a person accused of a crime. At a moment when bail-reform efforts are gaining momentum nationwide, the initiative models a steady, case-by-case approach to challenging the status quo within the criminal-justice system. It also provides an object lesson in the limits of another, more traditional strategy: broad-sweeping legal change.
Exorbitant bail is the default in many courts in America, even though judges aren’t actually required to set it. They can release a defendant pending trial, and they can impose non-monetary conditions for their release. Of the roughly 450,000 inmates awaiting trial on any given day nationwide, nearly all of them were jailed because they can’t make bail. In some jurisdictions, overly harsh statutes are to blame. In others, like New York, norms and practices, not the law, are responsible.
New York’s bail law is a product of a progressive overhaul of the bail system in the late 1960s and early 1970s. On paper, it’s among the more defendant-friendly nationwide—Scott Hechinger, a senior staff attorney and the director of policy for the Brooklyn Defenders, called it “one of the best and most impressive bail statutes in the entire country.” It requires judges to consider whether a defendant can afford bail, and it lets judges choose from nine different forms, including options that don’t require a defendant to pay anything up front. (Studies, including a report on New York City released in September, suggest that non-cash forms of bail are as effective as cash bail at ensuring a defendant shows up for trial.)
Yet, for almost 50 years, the practice in city courts has failed to conform to the revised law. The law was designed, in the words of the legislature, to “reduce the un-convicted portion of our jail population.” But over time, it “ended up resulting in more, not less, pretrial detention,” said Jocelyn Simonson, a former public defender and Brooklyn Law School professor who studies bail. According to a report issued this spring by a New York City criminal-justice commission, “there is precious little evidence that either prosecutors or judges consider a person’s ability to pay bail.” City judges, the report observes, “routinely allow defendants to post only the two most onerous forms”—cash bail or a bail bond.
Public defenders concede that defense attorneys share some of the blame: From the outset, overworked criminal-defense lawyers lacked the time and resources to dig into their clients’ backgrounds and challenge the many bail determinations that departed from the law. For prosecutors, the incentives favor the present state of affairs: A defendant in jail is far more likely to take a plea deal, giving the government a win, than take a case to trial.
With both sides largely silent, judges, for their part, have had no reason to change long-standing practice. There can also be real risks to releasing a defendant, and current conditions permit them to take more punitive precautions. “Whether directly or subliminally,” said Jonathan Lippman, the former chief judge of New York’s highest court and the head of the criminal-justice commission, “the judge doesn’t like to see his name on the front page of a tabloid: ‘Judge releases so-and-so,’ and they do some great damage to public safety.”
***
Here are the basics of the Brooklyn Defenders’ approach: An associate with the law firm Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel, which is partnering with the organization, will work pro bono with one of the public defenders to document each client’s finances, background, and community ties. They will then present their findings to a judge and either argue that bail is unnecessary or propose a form of bail the client can realistically meet. Where bail remains outside of the defendant’s financial reach, they will challenge the ruling in an appeals court.
In addition to seeing clients freed, the end game of the project is to change courtroom habit and get all parties involved following the law. “Part of this is just training judges,” Hechinger said. Systematic appeals—if accompanied by a steady stream of reversals—could also prompt reform by expending judges’ time and resources repeatedly redoing reversed bail determinations.
This August, I attended a test run of the project in the Kings County Supreme Court, where Brooklyn’s felony cases are tried. The defendant, Mordecai Omatiga, had never been arrested until earlier this year, when a police officer allegedly recognized him on the street from surveillance footage of a grocery-store robbery. When the officer arrested Omatiga, he said, he’d found a handgun and a bag of marijuana on him. Omatiga pleaded not guilty to the robbery and other charges.
At an earlier stage in his case, a judge had given Omatiga two choices if he wanted to post bail: He could deposit $50,000 with the court, or he could pay a bondsman more than $6,000 to post a $100,000 bond. Omatiga didn’t have that kind of money. He had a job, but he was attending vocational school and helping raise his five-year-old son.
Omatiga’s lawyers—Debora Silberman, a public defender, and Alejandro Ortega, an associate at Kramer Levin—presented the judge with a type of bail application that’s central to the Brooklyn Defenders’ initiative. The lawyers had spent the preceding weeks interviewing their client and his family, and reviewing their finances. What they’d found, they told Justice James Sullivan, was a man who was a minimal flight risk. His entire life was in New York, and he was very close to his family, which had attended every one of his court dates. If Sullivan wouldn’t release Omatiga outright, his parents—Nigerian immigrants—were willing to vouch for his return to court through an unsecured surety bond, one of New York’s nine bail options. They would be contractually obliged to pay the court if Omatiga jumped bail.
“They’re standing here in court to tell your Honor that they will, essentially, not have a dollar in their pockets,” Silberman said. “Every dollar would go to this court until Mr. Omatiga is returned.”
After a prosecutor spoke briefly, Sullivan denied the defense attorneys’ request. His reasons were threefold. He’d misread Omatiga’s clean criminal record and thought it showed a prior arrest for a violent felony. Although Omatiga denied involvement in the robbery, prosecutors said he’d acknowledged to police that he carried a handgun. And there was a video of the crime (though prosecutors and the defense disagreed whether the person in the video resembles Omatiga). “So the Court does not see any ground for changing bail,” Sullivan concluded. He made no mention of how specific factors that the bail statute instructs judges to consider affected his reasoning: Omatiga’s ability to afford cash bail, his ties to his community, and his family connections. The entire ruling took up less than half a page of court transcript.
Lawyers I spoke to described Sullivan as a careful judge with a reputation for fairness. Yet, he had followed the pattern defense attorneys had predicted he would. He had cited only the severity of what Omatiga was charged with and the evidence against him. He had said nothing about the other factors in the bail law. Nor had he explained why other forms of bail weren’t enough to ensure the defendant’s return to court. (Sullivan, through a court spokesperson, declined to comment on an ongoing criminal case.)
Later, before an appeals court, prosecutors argued that it was enough that Sullivan indicated he had considered the evidence put in front of him, even if he didn’t explain how certain factors listed in the statute had failed to persuade him to change Omatiga’s bail. The appellate court partly agreed. Last week, it cut Omatiga’s bail in half without explanation, though it left in place the decision to require cash bail or a bail bond. It’s not clear he’ll be able to meet that reduced amount.
“The reason [bail] gets set is because this is how it’s always been done,” Hechinger told me outside the courthouse after the August hearing, as Omatiga waited in a holding cell for a bus back to Rikers.
***
A number of efforts to curb cash bail on a system-wide level have been instituted lately, including statewide legislation in New Jersey and broad-sweeping court orders in Massachusetts, Houston, and Chicago. New York City’s history, however, underscores the limits of systemic reforms. Legal change on paper alone is not enough to change long-entrenched judicial practice, a lesson that’s already becoming apparent in jurisdictions that are part of the new wave of bail reforms. In Chicago, for example, representatives from criminal-justice groups have found that judges have not changed their practices to conform to a new cash-bail process implemented this summer by the chief judge, Simonson told me.
“New York is a lesson in this,” said Josh Norkin, a staff attorney at the Legal Aid Society of New York, which represents low-income criminal defendants throughout the city’s five boroughs. “There was never a sustained effort. What’s a pretty good and pretty liberal statute has been so widely abused to make it almost non-functional.”
The Brooklyn Defenders initiative, if successful, may provide a blueprint for case-by-case enforcement of systemic bail-reform measures across the country. A sustained litigation effort, however, is time- and resource-intensive, and a major barrier to that kind of effort is the notorious underfunding of public-defender offices. In Brooklyn, pro bono assistance from the private sector is helping overcome that hurdle, taking pressure off public defenders and assisting them with gathering information, preparing bail applications, and drafting briefs.  
Despite the outcome of Omatiga’s appeal, there is some reason to believe the initiative—as part of a larger push toward criminal-justice reform in New York—will begin to change courtroom practices. At Legal Aid, Norkin has implemented a smaller scale analog of the Brooklyn program, adding to one litigation group in Manhattan an attorney, paralegal, and social worker dedicated to bail. That unit has secured release for 64 of the 141 defendants it has represented over the past year. (The judicial process is slower moving than in Brooklyn, where the appeals courts adjudicate cases more quickly.)
Still, victory for Brooklyn Defenders might mean only a change in process—forcing judges to explain publicly why they set bail beyond what a defendant can afford—not a change in outcome, Norkin said. Even that, though, could have a meaningful effect: Requiring judges to explain their decisions on the public record may dissuade them from setting bail arbitrarily.
This week, the new project got under way, with a challenge to the bail status of an 18-year-old held at Rikers on gun-possession charges. The initiative will initially focus on felony defendants between the ages of 16 and 25, a cohort whose youth, Hechinger said, leaves them especially likely to be traumatized by stays in the facility. The case is expected to be the beginning of a long process to change practices deeply engrained in the judiciary—practices Lippman, the former chief judge, called “cultural.”
“The only way to do that,” Hechinger said, “is to get th[e] law in front of as many judges as possible on as systematic a level as possible.”


It’s difficult to say whether the tax legislation Republicans are driving through Congress qualifies as a revenue bill—or an enemies list.
It isn’t unusual for tax legislation to reward a political party’s supporters, and the GOP bill emphatically upholds that tradition by funneling its tax savings primarily toward business and top earners. But the House and Senate plans are unusual in how explicitly they fund those benefits by punishing groups that have generally favored Democrats.
How Much Do Tax Cuts Really Matter?
Those groups aren’t the only losers: Because they are delivering such expensive tax savings to their favored constituencies, the GOP plans are forced to raise taxes on a surprisingly broad range of families just to keep their 10-year net loss of federal revenue to $1.5 trillion, itself a breathtaking amount. Future spending cuts that the bills make almost inevitable could also gore Republican voters, particularly older, blue-collar whites counting on Medicare and Medicaid.
But even within this broad reconfiguration, the bills still mark a milestone in the nation’s political partitioning by so openly favoring Republican constituencies over Democratic-leaning ones. The big blue losers in the GOP tax plans include:
Taxpayers in Democratic-leaning states: To fund other tax cuts, the House and Senate plans rely heavily on retrenching the deduction taxpayers can now take for state and local taxes, known as SALT.
Of the 20 states where the highest percentage of taxpayers take that deduction, Hillary Clinton won 16 last year. Donald Trump, meanwhile, won 26 of the 30 states where the smallest percentage of taxpayers use the SALT deduction. In that way, the bill forces blue-state families to fund tax cuts for their red-state counterparts.
Homeowners in big-city markets: The impact of the SALT changes is magnified by the House bill’s provision halving the maximum mortgage-interest deduction to $500,000. In most markets, this affects few taxpayers since few home prices exceed that threshold. But data from ATTOM Data Solutions, which tracks property information, show that provision could hurt one-fifth or more of homebuyers in the most expensive markets around major cities, particularly along the coasts—places like Seattle, Southern California, Silicon Valley and the San Francisco Bay area, Northern Virginia, and the New York City metropolitan area. All those places, like most large metropolitan centers, gave Clinton commanding margins.
Between the mortgage and SALT limits, the bills hit many upper-middle-class taxpayers, especially in blue states. The Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy calculates that by 2027 the Senate bill would raise taxes on about 45 percent of households between the 80th and 95th income percentiles in California, Virginia, New Jersey, and New York; and over one-third of such families in Oregon, Minnesota, and Illinois. Many of those families are precisely the white-collar suburbanites who have long resisted Trump.
In all, ITEP has calculated that by 2027 taxpayers in New York, New Jersey, Maryland, and California—which Clinton won— would pay nearly $17 billion more in federal income taxes. At the same time, those in Texas and Florida—which backed Trump—would pay over $31 billion less. “You can definitely see the ideological tilt here,” Carl Davis, IRET’s research director, told me.
Students: Nearly 60 percent of adults with a post-graduate degree, as well as 49 percent of those with a four-year college degree, voted against Trump. Both are losers in the House tax bill. The plan would tax as income the tuition waivers that many graduate students receive, and it would end the deductibility of interest on student debt. The Joint Committee on Taxation has estimated these changes, along with other retrenchments in the bill, would shift $71 billion in costs to students and their families over the next decade. The Senate legislation has not yet embraced either of those provisions. But, in another swipe at a higher-education system that many Republicans view as hostile, both bills would tax endowments at the wealthiest private schools.
Alternative-energy producers: The House bill leaves undisturbed the key tax breaks that benefit the staunchly Republican oil-and-gas industry, particularly the depletion allowance and a credit for intangible drilling costs. But it rolls back several credits that help alternative-energy sources more friendly to Democrats. The bill revokes a tax credit for purchasing electric vehicles, and it completely eliminates an investment tax credit for the solar industry that was scheduled to phase down but then stabilize at a lower level.
The House swipes hardest at a key wind-energy tax credit. The bill revamps that production credit—not only prospectively, but also retroactively—in ways that could threaten the financing for projects that would add up to 30 gigawatts of wind power to the grid. That’s an amount equal to one-third of existing wind capacity, noted John Hensley, deputy director of industry data for the American Wind Energy Association. Those projects are concentrated in the “Wind Belt” states from Texas through the Dakotas that are mostly represented by GOP senators—which helps explain why the upper chamber hasn’t yet embraced the House’s changes.
Younger generations: The highly diverse and Democratic-leaning Millennial and post-Millennial generations could face a quadruple whammy under this bill. Just starting in their careers, or still in school, few would receive big tax savings. But in the legislation’s aftermath, they could face cuts in domestic programs, such as education and scientific research, that invest in their productivity; and future restrictions on Medicare and Social Security, timed to bite after the GOP-leaning baby boom has already retired by the mid-2020s. Younger generations will also be handed the tab to pay the increased interest costs that will be due after the tax legislation increases the federal debt by that projected $1.5 trillion.
That grim ledger contrasts with the benefits both bills shower on business owners and the highest earners, groups that surely tilt disproportionately toward older whites. With this tax legislation, Trump and the Republican Congress are not only picking partisan favorites—they are engaging in a form of generational confiscation.


President Trump blasted LaVar Ball in a series of tweets, calling him an “ungrateful fool” and a “poor man’s version of Don King.” Eight people have been rescued, and three remain missing, after a U.S. Navy plane crashed off the coast of Japan. Walter Shaub, the former director of the Office of Government Ethics, filed a complaint against White House aide Kellyanne Conway over her comments on the Alabama Senate race. John Rogers, the communications director for Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, resigned from the campaign. Enrollment in the federal health-insurance marketplace reached nearly 2.3 million people since the sign-up season began.
What About Women of Color?: The #MeToo movement has highlighted the prevalence of sexual harassment and assault, but it has a glaring blind spot. (Gillian B. White)
Don’t Fight the Urge: Many Americans are afraid to broach the subject of politics with family members. But here’s why you should go ahead and talk politics at Thanksgiving dinner anyway. (David A. Graham)
Partisan Energy: Republican strategists have been working for years to close the party’s gender gap. Donald Trump is making that mission even harder. (Michelle Cottle)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Trump’s Secret Support: Before defending Roy Moore, President Trump reportedly told White House advisers that he saw parallels between the Alabama Senate candidate’s predicament and his own experience being accused of sexual harassment. (Alex Isenstadt, Politico)
Ceding Power: Since John Kelly’s arrival to the White House, the chief of staff has chipped away at Jared Kushner’s influence. “Kelly has clipped his wings,” said one Republican. (Gabriel Sherman, Vanity Fair)
The Wall No One Can See: While President Trump’s U.S.-Mexico border wall has yet to be built, his administration is erecting very real barriers of a different kind. (Maria Sacchetti and Nick Miroff, The Washington Post)
An Era of Weaponized Politics: In order to be a society with zero tolerance for sexual harassment, Americans must make some serious distinctions. (Jonah Goldberg, National Review)
The Voices of the Resistance: Pod Save America, a podcast started by three former Obama staffers, has become the liberal equivalent of conservative talk radio. (Jason Zengerle, The New York Times)
‘He Was Like an Octopus’: Here is a list of the 13 women who have publicly accused Donald Trump of sexual misconduct, as well as the witnesses they provided. (Meg Kelly, The Washington Post)
View the Guest Book: The White House refused to release visitor logs from five federal office buildings. Here they are, on ProPublica. (Derek Kravitz, Leora Smith, and Al Shaw)
Thanksgiving Science Quiz: What was the first cornucopia? Why were sweet potatoes popular in the 16th century? Test your knowledge here. (Bonnie Berkowitz, The Washington Post)
In this story, The Atlantic’s Derek Thompson writes that through its economic policies, the Republican Party seems to be waging a war on higher education. This week, we asked whether you think that’s the case. Here’s what you said:
“An educated population is more unlikely to tolerate the anti-democratic forces we see arising around us today: oligarchy, white-collar criminality, corporate corruption,” writes J. Gary McDonald. “As Republicans have succumbed to the anti-democratic...influences that seem to be infesting their party, suppressing access to education would be as useful a vehicle for their agenda as voter suppression, partisan gerrymandering, and media manipulation.”
Thomas White writes that he believes Republicans “see education as elitism, out of touch with the common man.”
But Gayle sees it differently: “I wouldn't put the blame entirely on the Republicans as a party, but on the leadership who seem more intent in scoring a win at any cost without considering its long term implications for sustaining the value of opportunity for self-actualization regardless of economic status or background that has truly helped to make America ‘great!’”
Thanks to everyone who weighed in, and keep an eye out for next week’s Question of the Week.
Note: We are taking off the rest of the week and will return on Monday. Happy Thanksgiving!
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


When, in a game last Sunday in Mexico City versus the New England Patriots, the Oakland Raiders running back Marshawn Lynch chose to sit during the “Star-Spangled Banner,” and then stood during the Mexican National Anthem, the idea of the multiverse—multiple realities and infinite branching probabilities—suddenly seemed inadequate. As soon as the cameras focused on Lynch, this plane of existence narrowed to a single undeniable probability: that President Donald Trump was going to tweet about it sometime soon.
Trump happily obliged fate. On Monday morning at 6:25a.m., in the block of time reserved for blasting people and things he’s seen on cable news that he doesn’t like, the president tweeted that “next time [the] NFL should suspend him for remainder of season.” Utilizing the extra 140 characters Twitter recently bestowed, Trump was also able to imply that Lynch was a factor in the the NFL’s sinking ratings. With that, Lynch became just the latest in a line of outspoken black people that Trump has attacked. It’s kind of a thing for him.
Ten months into Trump’s presidency, everything has changed, and everything has remained the same. In the onslaught of the 2017 news cycle, perhaps the one constant has been the president’s use of his expansive bully pulpit to target prominent black people. In addition to Lynch, Trump is also feuding with LaVar Ball, the brash celebrity dad of LiAngelo Ball, a UCLA player whose shoplifting arrest in China turned into a minor international incident. In a bizarre feud, Trump attacked Ball and his family for not being quite grateful enough to the president for securing the younger Ball’s freedom. LaVar Ball has refused to apologize or thank Trump, and has used the spectacle to engage in more carnival-barking, this time via a CNN interview.
This morning, Trump upped the ante in that battle, taking to Twitter in a predawn tirade against Ball, dedicating two tweets to calling the basketball dad an “ungrateful fool,” and calling him “a poor man’s version of Don King, but without the hair.” In addition to those tweets, the president squeezed in another, reiterating his criticism of the NFL for merely allowing players to kneel, all hours before addressing his policy meetings and a developing naval incident in the Philippine Sea involving missing military personnel.
This is all, of course, a sideshow in a week with numerous bombshell reports of sexual abuse among members of Congress and the media, with a major tax bill looming, and with plenty of other important domestic and foreign-policy issues to confront. But for Trump, the sideshow appears to be the real show. Of his 17 tweets and retweets this week, the president has dedicated seven to attacking black people or protests by black people.
On this topic, Trump is a broken record. He’s repeatedly gone after NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick and other black athletes for on-the-field protests, culminating in his “son of a bitch” attack in an Alabama rally in September.
Trump has raged against Golden State Warriors point guard Steph Curry for his refusal to visit the White House, and subsequently disinvited the whole team. He and his office have launched sustained, coordinated verbal assaults on the ESPN anchor Jemele Hill and Florida Representative Frederica Wilson. Trump has picked fights with the civil-rights hero Representative John Lewis, saying he was “all talk, talk, talk—no action or results.” And, of course, the steam that got the Trump train started came from his long-running denigration of President Barack Obama, a campaign that ran the gamut from embracing birtherism to implying the former president was a lazy man who vacationed too much. This is an abridged list.
It seems trite to say that Trump likes to pick fights with black people—he picks fights with everyone, in the most shocking and crass ways—but the president does have a knack for knocking down the kinds of black folks members of his base want to see knocked down. There are plenty of people on all sides of the political and racial spectrums hoping LaVar Ball types will receive their comeuppance, but generally, Trump has saved his most sustained assaults for black people who are prominent and popular among young people, and for those who in a different era might have been considered “uppity.”
“Uppityness” is today recognized as a slur, and how it got that way is instructive in explaining Trump’s rise to power. Back when the lives and career prospects of black people were officially constrained by the state, and when social and cultural hierarchies were enforced on pain of death, black people who dared aspire to a life and world beyond those constraints were often branded with the label. The maintenance of those hierarchies depended on making examples of the outspoken and the ambitious. Though the implements have changed from the braided whips of the past to the verbal upbraidings of the present, the purpose of attacking uppity blacks has always been to reinforce the status quo and limit mobility, in all senses of that word.
There’s a class inflection to uppity today, and it follows that most of the black people Trump has attacked are well-off—he often needles his black opponents as “ungrateful” for their stations. But his attacks serve the same purpose, regardless of the status of his targets. It’s not even clear whether he truly harbors animosity toward the people he targets or if he really knows much about them, but it’s undeniable that Trump knows exactly what these attacks do for him. He may have little appetite to master policy or struggle to manage his office, but Trump is a savant when it comes to knowing how to harness white resentment and hostility towards outspoken people of color. This is perhaps his most bankable skill, and unfortunately for those who open Twitter in the mornings, the one he uses most liberally.
The proof is in the presidency, as well as in the polls. In the run-up to the election last year, most Republicans and Trump supporters either disagreed with or were up in the air on the fact that Barack Obama was born in the United States, a testament to the incredible power of Trump’s racist birther campaign. According to an HBO Real Sports/Marist poll, Republicans largely support his outbursts over the NFL protests and Colin Kaepernick and overwhelmingly agree with his stance that protest should be banned from the sport altogether. And while approval ratings and views of Trump’s fitness for office have plummeted across the board in the past couple months, white Americans have provided a resilient bastion of political support for Trump.
Whether Trump can continue going back to this particular well is anyone’s guess. His sinking approval ratings even among whites may indicate that the well is running dry. But his constant fighting with prominent black folks draws on one of the oldest political strategies in the book. It’s the same reason why the White House has been so embroiled in relitigating the Civil War and rehabilitating enslavers, and why Alabama GOP Senate candidate Roy Moore has resorted to Lost Cause mythology under fire over numerous sexual assault allegations. The enforcers of the racial status quo always maintain some measure of power.
Apart from their political effectiveness, though, Trump’s feuds serve another purpose: They obscure the fact that he is a politician otherwise without identity. Without people of color to serve as a foil, there is no Trumpism. If not for his attacks on the Central Park Five, his birtherism, his slanders of immigrants, his “what the hell do you have to lose” exhortations, the travel bans, and his autonomic reactions against prominent black people, it’s hard to see how Trump ever could have been elected in the first place.


Right now, a draft of a letter informing thousands of Virginia parents that their kids might lose their health coverage just after the holidays is sitting on Linda Nablo’s desk. “People are going to panic,” Nablo, who is the chief deputy director of the Virginia Department of Medical Assistance Services, told me. “It’s going to cause mass confusion. It’s going to be an increase in the lack of trust in government, that government will do what it says it will do. People will lose their managed-care plans. They’ll lose their provider. It’s going to cause chaos.”
Nablo and her colleagues have drafted the letter because, for more than 50 days, Congress has failed to reauthorize funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, or CHIP, a federal-state initiative that covers about nine million lower-income kids. Within weeks, states will start running out of money, leaving them scrambling to patch the holes in their budgets or forced to suspend their programs and drop coverage—as Virginia expects it would have to do. “Every day that goes by, we’re getting increasingly concerned,” Nablo said. “Nobody ever anticipated we’d be in this situation. We’re taking very concrete steps as if we’re going to shut this program down.”
Hill staffers insist and the states anticipate that Congress will pass new funding for CHIP in the coming weeks. But the situation has left doctors fuming, administrators bewildered, parents frightened, and politicians shocked. Even if no states end up running out of money and no kids end up losing coverage, the dithering has already diverted state resources, degraded state programs, and sapped state coffers, and Congress’s dysfunction has pushed the stability of an effective, respected program with bipartisan support into doubt.
Created by the late Senator Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts and Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, CHIP covers kids whose families earn too much to qualify for Medicaid but do not have employer-sponsored plans or cannot afford coverage on the Obamacare exchanges. The program works: It is credited with helping to cut the uninsured rate for kids by more than half, while also reducing hospitalization rates, improving kids’ educational outcomes, and bolstering their families’ economic well-being. It is also a safety-net rarity in today’s polarized Washington, with strong and deep bipartisan support.
Federal funds for the program expired on September 30, but, caught up with the failed Obamacare repeal process and ongoing tax reform, Congress has thus far failed to act. Republicans in the House have passed a bill raising money for CHIP by shortening the grace period for late premium payments for Obamacare enrollees, something that would cause an estimated 700,000 people to lose coverage. “I reject the notion we have to rob Peter to pay Paul,” Representative Debbie Dingell of Michigan objected on the House floor. “Or in this instance, jeopardize the future of Medicare and steal $6 billion from critical prevention programs to pay for children’s healthcare.” The House and Senate remain far apart on how to finance it, too.
Policymakers on both sides have promised that the money will be forthcoming, perhaps in a continuing resolution to keep financing the whole of the government due by December 8. The need is “not dire or urgent,” Representative Pete Sessions, a Texas Republican, told The New York Times. “The money that is necessary to keep this program going is not in jeopardy.” But Congress has struggled to pass simple, uncontroversial legislation for years now. The Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that eleven states will run out of funds by the end of December, and 32 states by the end of March—though those are only estimates, given the unprecedented nature of the funding lapse. “We have hope in Congress,” Nablo said. “We just don’t have confidence.”
The 50 states, according to the intricacies of 50 budgets and the laws and policies governing their 50 CHIP programs, are figuring out what to do. That means figuring out how much money they have and how long they can extend coverage. It means figuring out whether they need to cap enrollment or let a program lapse. “It’s not just trying to pinpoint the exact date” a state will run out of money, Jesse Cross-Call, a senior policy analyst at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington-based think tank, told me. “It’s also executing whatever process is supposed to happen by statute or by whatever dictates the policy change at the state level. The process of putting together notices—states haven’t had to that before. It’s not like they can call up that Word document from two years ago and change the date on it.”
It means figuring out how to enact a cap, freeze, or shutdown—something many states have never done. “We’re beginning to figure out how to modify IT systems,” Nablo told me. “There are at least two that will involve probably significant costs, to both cancel people with current coverage as well as to stop approving kids when they apply.” She said the state was also figuring out how to modify a dozen contracts. States must also figure out how to inform parents and providers, with many states drafting and sitting on letters informing families of the program changes. “There’s been this tension,” said Robin Rudowitz of Kaiser. “States don’t want to send notices out.” But they also do not want to surprise their parents, and give them no time to try to find other coverage should their state’s CHIP program end.  
The policy effects are already being felt in terms of wasted money and diverted personnel hours, state administrators have said. Some states have stopped pushing sign-ups too, something that might depress enrollment in the short and medium term, with lower-income and more disconnected parents not realizing that their kids are eligible. “We haven’t been doing even our regular outreach activities,” Stacey Shamblin, West Virginia’s acting CHIP director, told the Charleston Gazette-Mail.
If states were to start to send their letters to parents—Nablo said Virginia is just days away from that point—the policy implications would be significant, health analysts have warned. Parents might find themselves confused by the program and less trusting in its soundness. Kids might never sign up, or might drop out. “It’s not something you can easily turn on and off,” Rudowitz said. “You could put in a cap. But the education and notices to beneficiaries—even if there is no cap, that reeducation can take a long time, and maybe doesn’t reach everybody.”  
A brief hiccup in state coverage would have yet more dire effects. During it, some kids might be denied care or their parents might get hit with significant medical bills. After it, parents might not recognize that they could re-enroll their kids. Arizona scaled back its CHIP program in 2014, and even after expanding it again its uninsured rate for children remains one of the highest in the country, double that of California. The effects are felt not just in terms of lost coverage, but lost care. “Some of the children went without needed health services and medications,” a study by researchers at Georgetown University found. “A child with Lupus and heart and respiratory ailments was hospitalized because her family could not afford the doctor visits and medications she required. Other children did without medications for their asthma or ADHD.”
A true program lapse would be worse. Nablo said she worried most about newborns and pregnant women in Virginia. “We put a lot of effort to get pregnant women enrolled early, to help get them prenatal care and to have healthy babies,” she said. “It’s great for the kid, great for the mother, and great for the taxpayer, so we’re not paying for a kid in the NICU if we don’t have to.” She also said children currently undergoing treatment would be hard-hit. “We treat kids with cancer,” she said. “We treat babies born with HIV. We treat babies addicted to substances. We have some really sick kids. We’re paying for their treatment. To suddenly say, ‘Sorry, you’re on your own’? I can’t imagine getting that word as a parent.”
What is perhaps scariest: Even strong bipartisan support for CHIP has not protected it from the effects of polarization and the breakdown of the normal budgeting process in Congress. And it is kids who stand to bear the worst of the consequences.


Of all the Thanksgiving anxieties—bad traffic, overcooked turkey, undercooked turkey, the aunt who tries to get creative with some gourmet cranberry relish when all you want is the familiar canned variety, dammit, her increasingly intoxicated and querulous husband, and so on—no fear seems to equal that of getting sucked into a political conversation.
Six in 10 Americans in a new NPR/PBS NewsHour poll said they dread political talk at the Thanksgiving table. Four in 10 say Trump is the most likely spark for a dinner-time fight, six times the nearest rival, according to SurveyMonkey. Journalists churn out piping hot “how to avoid political arguments with your family” takes this time of year like so many pumpkin pies. In 2012, Jon Lovett wrote a handy guide in these pages. (TL;DR change the subject shamelessly.) A year later, my colleague Conor Friedersdorf wrote a guide to how to argue if you must (TL;DR don’t be a jerk) but cautioned, “On Thanksgiving, it's usually best if you don't talk politics. The subject tends to aggravate people, and it's very unlikely that anyone's mind will be changed. So don't do it.”
Pass the Turkey, Hold the Politics
This hasn’t stopped some people from urging others to do it—most notably Barack Obama, who encouraged people to talk about health insurance at Thanksgiving 2013. No wonder Obamacare was so unpopular for so long.
This year, however, here’s my (probably bad) advice: Go ahead, argue about politics.
There are two primary reasons to just dive in. First, President Trump’s ability to grab the spotlight and inject himself into so many facets of life makes trying to avoid politics practically futile these days. I’m a political journalist and spend all my time talking, reporting, and writing about politics, so I am not especially representative, but I also live far outside the Beltway in North Carolina. I am astonished at how often conversations with “civilians” outside of politics and journalism drift inexorably toward politics, followed by an awkward silence as everyone realizes the discussion has gone there. Besides, what else are you going to talk about? The weather? That’s going to be a climate-change debate in no time at all. The NFL? Don’t even get started. Might as well embrace the inevitable!
Second, the stakes are higher this year. That isn’t to say that politics doesn’t affect our lives deeply all the time—if I felt it didn’t, I wouldn’t waste my time covering it—but the matters that the last year or two have brought into the arena are central to the nation’s identity: the role of racism in American society, the fate of longstanding norms about how the U.S. functions, the appropriate role for our country in global affairs, what rule of law means, and nuclear war, for pete’s sake. These are more important than the details of health-care legislation, marginal tax rates, or any number of the mundane topics that might have caused friction at previous years’ family feasts. If the things I’m talking about here are more likely to cause screaming matches, that’s because they’re so important.
Which isn’t to endorse screaming matches—more on that in a bit. But given the increasing segregation of U.S. society by income, education level, religiosity, and political belief, there are few occasions when most Americans are as likely to be in room with other people who (1) hold different political views from them and (2) are obligated to actually interact and talk with them. Only by talking to relatives can you find out whether they hold dubious political positions (read: ones you disagree with, but also ones that are factually incorrect), and thus try to convince them to adopt your position.
How to do that? Politifact offers a fact-sheet for easy reference, but frankly you’re probably better off just setting your own pants on fire. If someone wants to hear facts presented to them, just send them to TheAtlantic.com. In-person contact can have a different effect. First, as my colleague Julie Beck has written, simply giving people facts can turn them off or even have the perverse effect of further entrenching misperceptions. But group conversations, like the one you have while passing the gravy boat, work much better at persuading people. Political scientists have also found that people are more likely to change their political views based on personal interactions—especially personal interactions that are focused on issues, rather than arrayed along partisan battle lines. Again, Thanksgiving dinner lends itself to issue-based conversations, and everyone’s there as a cousin or brother or granddaughter, not a Republican or Democrat.
So go ahead, take on your grandma’s outdated views. Go ahead, get into it with your smug, know-it-all nephew. Go ahead, explain to your cousin who read an online explainer that the issue is more complicated than it appears. The country’s fate depends on it. At the very least, it should create some excitement, which is more than we can say for some of the football games on offer.


It turns out those pink kitty-cat hats weren’t just for show after all.
Among its many electrifying aspects, the early Trump era has had a politically galvanizing effect on women. They are organizing in the streets and on social media, running for office in record numbers, training to enter future races, and volunteering on campaigns. And on November 7, they flocked to the polls to officially have their voices heard.
The Lament of the Anti-Trump Republican Women
What they had to say more or less boiled down to: Things around here have got to change. Now. Which has many folks in the Republican Party reaching for the Xanax.  
By now, you’ve likely heard some of the Election Day stats and stories. In Virginia, women went from holding 17 seats in the House of Delegates to holding 27. Winners include Danica Roem, who became the state’s first transgender delegate-elect by beating an incumbent who bragged of being the state’s “chief homophobe.” In the gubernatorial contest, women favored Democrat Ralph Northam by 22 points—5 points more than Hillary Clinton’s margin among them last fall. Particularly concerning for Republicans: Fifty-eight percent of white college-educated women went for Northam vs. only 50 percent for Hillary.
Among other spotlighted wins, Seattle chose its first woman mayor since 1926. Manchester, New Hampshire, and Provo, Utah, elected their first female mayors ever, as did tiny Milledgeville, Georgia. In New Jersey, Ashley Bennett, a first-time candidate, won a spot on the Atlantic County legislative board by unseating a guy who had irked her with his sexist Facebook posting about the January Women’s March. (Mock the pink hats at your peril, gentlemen.) The hot storyline out of this first election of the Trump administration: “Revenge of the Fired-Up Woman.”
Although, to be more precise, it was “Revenge of the Fired-Up Democratic Woman.”
Whether you’re talking candidates, activists, or voters, the action among the ladies is on the blue side of the electoral divide, observed Kelly Dittmar, a scholar with the nonpartisan Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University. “It’s pretty clear the energy is partisan,” she told me.
As one data point, Dittmar points to the estimated number of gals running for House seats next year. (The official count won’t be available until after all filing deadlines have passed.) There are currently 354 women in the mix: 291 Democrats and 63 Republicans. Now compare those numbers to this point in last year’s cycle, said Dittmar, when there were 121 Democratic women and 60 Republicans running.
It doesn’t take a math whiz to chart the enthusiasm gap.
The situation, unsurprisingly, has many Republicans stressed out—even depressed. This is especially true among the women strategists, activists, and other leaders who’ve been laboring to address their party’s gender gap. In recent years, the GOP has struggled to combat its image as a pack of grumpy old white guys. Trump, to put it gently, has not been helpful in that regard. Worse still, the overheated, culture-warring nature of Trumpism has disrupted some of the most common avenues Republicans had been using to reach women. And worst of all: Not even the party players who focus on this issue seem to have any sense of where to go from here.
* * *
No one is suggesting that Trump is wholly to blame for his party’s lady problems.
The GOP’s relationship with women is “always challenging,” admitted former Representative Mary Bono. While the Democratic Party “takes women for granted,” said Bono, her party “doesn’t understand them.”
Julie Conway, executive director of the women-focused VIEW PAC, noted of her party’s efforts to engage women: “It wasn’t good before, and it’s not good now.”
Talking with Republicans in recent years about their outreach to women, I’ve often heard two separate but related messages about how the party approaches gender differently than the opposition.
“This is one of the main differences between the left and the right: We don’t see every issue as being a ‘man’s issue,’ or a ‘woman’s issue.’ It’s not a men-against-women, us-against- them mentality,” said Sue Zoldak, the head of communications for RightNOW Women PAC. “I don’t understand the idea that something is a ‘women’s issue.’ I don’t comprehend that as a statement.”
Similarly, Zoldak stressed that Republican women won’t support a candidate because of her gender but rather because she is the most qualified person in the race. “It’s not actually smart to tell women that you had to have voted for Hillary Clinton to be a good woman,” said Zoldak.
Dittmar has heard these arguments countless times. “They always go back to ‘women’s issues,’ ” she said. “But that’s a straw-man argument” that doesn’t get at the basic structural challenge with which the GOP has saddled itself. “If the party rejects identity politics writ large,” said Dittmar, “it’s hard to see how they can make a concerted effort to recruit and support women, since that would be antithetical to the philosophy they’re putting forward.” GOP groups aimed at reaching women “organize around identity, but then they say they don’t want to be pigeon-holed by identity,” said Dittmar. “They’re trying to navigate a difficult space.”
Not that any of that matters much at this point, say frustrated Republican women. Policy debates? Opposition to identity politics? Trump has rendered the usual rules of engagement all but useless.
“People aren’t voting about any of the issues really that historically you fight over,” said Conway. “There’s something else going on where there’s definitely a shift in how politics in this country, how things are going to look moving forward. As soon as Trump became president, it changed everything. He threw the traditional playbooks out the window.”
“All issues are women’s issues? That’s a message that, while I agree with it technically, we do find ourselves in a more cultural moment,” said Jean Card, a communications consultant who has been involved with RightNow Women PAC since its birth following the 2012 election. “Things are getting a little bit more cloudy. It’s hard to stick to just policy when people are feeling, generally speaking, like they don’t relate to each other.”
Virginia’s blue wave “was about Trump,” asserted a long-time party strategist, who wished to remain nameless to avoid upsetting clients. “It was not specific issues. It was a visceral reaction to what people perceive of his representing. And it’s not welcoming. It’s not inclusive. It makes people very uncomfortable.”
Likewise, Trump has altered the political climate regarding identity politics broadly and gender more specifically.
In part, the 2016 election represented a backlash to the disruption of traditional gender roles and men’s shifting status in society, said Dittmar. “Now, we’re having women, white women who it sort of woke up, pushing back on this and saying, ‘We won’t be silenced on this.’ It’s the backlash to that backlash.”
Unlike minority women, said Dittmar, pre-Trump, many white women “seemed to have been lulled into complacency and thought, ‘Things are OK for us.’ Now, they’ve had a reaction to see that, ‘Oh my gosh. The country is so much more discriminatory and voters are so much more misogynistic than we ever realized.’ That plays into the energy and has a galvanizing effect.”
“I think more are willing to run even as sacrificial lambs,” said the pollster Anna Greenberg. “You have women running in places no one really thinks they can win.” And as Virginia showed, under certain conditions, those long-shots pay off.
* * *
As if the situation weren’t ticklish enough, the spotlight on sexual harassment is boosting many women’s sense that something needs to change. As Card put it, “We’re having a little bit of a sisterhood moment here.”
“Imagine if we had a female leader, how this could be handled,” said Card (who supported Carly Fiorina for president last cycle). “Instead, we do have the polar opposite. We do have a man who said he could grab women by the pussy. We can’t have presidential leadership on the sexual harassment issue because of that.”
(No question, Trump is a problematic ambassador for the cause. Greenberg recently conducted a national poll asking voters, “Do you believe that Donald Trump sexually harassed women, or not?” Sixty-eight percent said yes.)
None of which guarantees that Republicans will get clobbered in the midterms.
“People have to realize there are just a limited number of open seats in 2018,” said Dittmar. No matter how fired up Democratic women are, the electoral map favors the GOP.
Even so, “the map” argument offers little comfort to the party’s frustrated women, including Katie Packer Beeson, a co-founder of Burning Glass Consulting, which focuses on getting more women into the fold.
What’s going on among women voters “does practically make a difference in that you have an awful lot of swing districts,” said Beeson. “The kind of turnout we saw in Virginia is going to be a problem in a lot of places that people don’t even have on their radar.”
“If you are a Republican, whether male or female, in a district some place in this country where you don’t always get 80 percent of the vote, I would be worried,” said Conway.
“It has to be a wake up call to everybody,” said the party strategist.
“I think what’s going to hurt Republicans with women, and what we saw happen with Virginia, has something to do with sexual harassment and has a lot to do with the white-supremacist issue and has a lot to do with basic tone and tenor of politics these days that people are recoiling at and laying at Trump’s feet,” said Beeson.
Beeson pointed to Steve Bannon’s championing of the alt-right and the allegations of sexual misconduct against Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore. “There does appear to be some group of Republicans who take the attitude of whatever it takes to elect Republicans and stop Democrats will do, even if that means supporting a pederast or a white supremacist,” fumed Beeson. “Things like that are causing the party to be redefined in way not only igniting the opposition but really depressing parts of our base that used to be reliably Republican—suburban, business-minded Republicans who are in it less for culture wars and more for the tax cuts.”
The damage could well outlast Trump, she asserted. “If there is this sense that Republicans are defined by people like Roy Moore and that the Fox News crowd is willing to tolerate anything in order to win and will not call out bad actors, then the kinds of suburban independent women we’ve needed in the past to win elections will start recoiling more and more at all of it and start galvanizing and coming out to vote.”
Mary Bono put it more simply. “Character used to matter. Now we’re not that party.”
* * *
If the zeitgeist is against them, and the old strategies don’t suit the moment, how then can the GOP avoid further erosion of support from women?
No one seems to have a clue.
“I don’t know what to do,” said the strategist. “I’ve been wracking my brains.”
So the recent elections were a “wake-up call,” said Conway. “Fine. Wake up. But what do you do about it is the bigger question for me. Even if you are keenly aware that your district is in trouble, even if you won by 12 points last time, even if you have done a great job—the writing is on the wall that something bigger is going on. How do you slow the momentum down?”
Not to suggest that anyone is giving up. Big-money donors recently launched a group focused on getting Republican women elected. Efforts (like RightNOW Women’s) to connect female political up-and-comers with mentors and funders will continue apace. And both Zoldak and Conway say they’re seeing a slight uptick in less-traditional women candidates expressing interest in running for office. “One of the few positives of Donald Trump is that people see that you can come from any sort of background,” said Conway. “You don’t have to come up the traditional political ladder.” But none of that directly addresses the core lack of enthusiasm.
“A lot people have said, ‘Well we need to go state by state and convince ‘our type’ of woman to run for office,’” said the strategist. (And by that she means more traditional Republicans rather than Trumpists.) “But, number one, that’s labor intensive. And, number two, I don’t know what it accomplishes.” With the base increasingly in thrall to Trumpism, conventional—much less moderate—Republican candidates have a tough time getting traction in primaries.   
For her part, Conway is actually discouraging some women from running for Congress in what currently looks to be an unfriendly 2018. “I’ve said, ‘Keep your powder dry. I don’t want you to have a terrible experience where there’s no mathematical way I can see a path to victory.’” As much as she wants women’s voices in the debate, Conway said, “I don’t want to put her out there to be destroyed and never want to do it again.”
No one I spoke with expressed much hope of making a dent in the gender gap any time soon. “I only have 22 Republican women in the House,” said Conway. Soon she’ll be “down five, with three running for other offices and two retiring. And that doesn’t count if Martha McSally runs for the Senate. Without any other retirements, this puts us down to World War Two numbers—which is horrible.”
More than one woman, in fact, suggested it might be time to start from scratch. “It looks more clear all the time that eventually we’re going to have to have a third party come up in the center,” said Bono.
While this may cheer those looking to punish Trump and his team, in the long run, the imbalance is bad news for more than just Republicans, said Dittmar. “If you care about parities in gender representation, you’re never going to get it just by running more Democratic women,” she pointed out. “There needs to be a reckoning on the Republican side about how to recruit and support more Republican women.”
Which is precisely what’s keeping many Republican women up at night, their dreams haunted by an ocean of fuzzy pink hats.


This is the fifth installment in our series of essays written by veterans. We asked service members to share how their time in uniform shaped their perspectives on American life.
I happen to be a woman. This is often inconvenient. It was inconvenient for the military and, now that I’m out of the military, it’s still inconvenient. In multiple surveys and anecdotes, both women who are serving and women who have served repeatedly list gender bias as an issue, though the way it manifests itself differs during and after their time in the military.
The military doesn’t just urge women, it requires them—especially if they want to succeed—to view themselves on the same playing field as their male counterparts. They are also expected to behave and perform in traditionally masculine ways—demonstrating strength, displaying confidence in their abilities, expecting to be judged on their merits and performance, and taking on levels of authority and responsibility that few women get to experience. The uniform and grooming standards work to downplay their physical female characteristics. Additionally, the expectation—explicit or implicit—is that they also downplay other attributes that are traditionally considered feminine, such as open displays of emotion. That’s not to say that gender isn’t going to be noticed or that others aren’t going to make it an issue—they will. But highlighting female characteristics is undesirable. As General Lori J. Robinson, the U.S. military’s first female combatant commander, put it: “I’m a general, a commander, an airman. And I happen to be a woman.”
When many women leave the service, they expect that being a woman in the civilian community will be easier, but that isn’t always the case. They have to prove their abilities all over again, earn their place at the table again. As veterans, they’re not afraid to prove themselves. They proved themselves in boot camp. They proved themselves at tech training. They proved themselves every time they arrived at a new duty station. They have plenty of practice proving themselves. They can prove themselves one more time. The difference, this time, is that the individuals on the other end are not prepared for them to do so.
There are roughly 2 million women veterans in the United States and Puerto Rico, according to the Department of Veterans Affairs. Without the uniform, there is no outward indication that these women are veterans. In a recent video, Kirstie Ennis, Marine door gunner, amputee, and first veteran—male or female—to grace the cover of ESPN Magazine’s Body Issue, stated that she is often told that she is “too pretty” or “too frail” for people to believe she was a Marine.
What civilians do not realize, what women veterans often do not even realize, is that they might appear to be like other women, but they aren’t operating on the expectations traditionally applied to women. Behaving at odds with these traditional expectations is often a significant drawback in the ability of women veterans to fit-in in the workplace, in the dating world, in the female civilian community, in society in general. And directly challenging these expectations can often lead to conflict.
On active duty, women were my support network, a situation encouraged both by our small numbers—approximately 15 percent of the active duty force is women—and by the military’s emphasis on teamwork. My experiences with civilian women, however, have not always been as friendly. Other women veterans have also reported negative experiences with civilian women, ranging from lack of understanding and inability to relate to cold shoulders.
In a 2015 study on how female veterans cope with transition, one participant said: “When I first got out of the military, I had a hard time with [women], civilian women. They didn’t understand why I looked so militant. ‘Why do you walk straight up? Why do you walk so?’” Operating in male-dominated environments and doing traditionally male activities, up to and including combat, are so different from the experiences of civilian women that the two sides often cannot relate. Moreover, the behaviors—male behaviors—that women veterans learned were correct in the military are now at odds with the expectations civilians have for women. Instead of helping them fit in, these same behaviors now make them stand out, often in ways that make other people uncomfortable.
Complicating matters is that, while I and other women veterans make efforts to assimilate, we are often reluctant to completely lose the identity we developed in the military, particularly if it means assuming traditional gender roles. The idea that the male standard is the normal one has become so ingrained during service that women veterans don’t realize they’ve absorbed the spoken or unspoken message that adding “female” to something diminishes it.
Military women often cite that they feel slighted in comparison to their male counterparts, that they don’t get the same promotion opportunities or the same recognition. This is not surprising—they are competing on standards that were designed and built by men to bring out the best in men. The fact that women are competing against those standards at all is hugely important. After leaving the service, they don’t realize that they often continue to view themselves under those same metrics. They expect, for example, to be afforded the same respect as their male counterparts—veteran and civilian.
And yet, women are often denied recognition for their military accomplishments. In a 2016 Service Women’s Action Network survey, 74 percent of the respondents said that the general public did not recognize their service.
Recently, I had dinner with several of my coworkers, all male veterans. We were joined by two civilian men, both friends of one of my coworkers. During the conversation, a veteran asked if I had ever slept in a CONEX, a large shipping container that doubles as housing for many deployed service members. I replied that I had not, but that I had worked in a CONEX when I was in Afghanistan. To which one of the civilian men responded, “Oh, are you a military brat?”
I was a military brat, for a short period of time when my mother was in the Army. That was not, however, why I was in Afghanistan—that was for my role as senior Taliban/Al Qaeda analyst for a three-star general. This kind of exchange, where a woman’s connection to the military is assumed to be earned by another, most likely male, individual can be insulting and disheartening to a woman who has served.
The perceived invalidation of a woman’s service can also feel as if her experiences during or related to her service, to include combat, service-connected disabilities, and sexual harassment/assault, are also invalidated. In the past, many women either didn’t take advantage of resources available to veterans or found that available resources didn’t take into account the unique needs of women veterans. Today, women veterans are still facing a number of challenges, including being three to four times as likely as their civilian women counterparts to become homeless and 2.5 times more likely to commit suicide.
The number of women veterans continues to grow—currently less than 10 percent of the veteran population, they are projected to make up 16 percent by 2043. The successes of women like Robinson, Ennis, Secretary of the Air Force Heather Wilson, Senators Tammy Duckworth and Joni Ernst, Representatives Tulsi Gabbard and Martha McSally, and others are helping to change the impressions people have of women who serve. And efforts by the Department of Veterans Affairs, veteran service organizations, and other groups focusing on addressing the needs of women veterans are slowly improving their transition experience. Efforts for gender equality within the civilian community are also making the lack of conformity to traditionally feminine roles more acceptable.
Still, there are likely more obstacles to overcome in the near future. The lifting of the combat exclusion policy in 2013, for example, has opened the door for female service members to make their way into the final male-only spaces remaining in the military. Recent developments have included the first female Army Ranger school graduates and the first successful Marine infantry officer candidate. With the debates for keeping women out of these areas largely focused on a perceived lowering of standards, it is likely that these women will be required to adopt even more thoroughly traditionally male characteristics in order to succeed in these news roles. Additionally, the inevitable future conflict in which women will be committed to ground combat in large scale numbers will result in an even larger divide in the experiences of military and civilian women.
This means that women, both during and after service, are likely to find being a woman inconvenient for some time to come.


President Trump broke his long silence on the allegations against Roy Moore Tuesday, casting doubt on the various claims against the Republican candidate for U.S. Senate in Alabama and saying that despite Moore’s past, including allegations of assault and generally creepy behavior around teenage girls, he prefers to see Moore elected to the seat than to lose it to a Democrat.
“I can tell you this one thing for sure,” Trump said as he prepared to leave the White House for Florida for the Thanksgiving holiday. “We don’t need a liberal person in there, a Democrat. Jones, I’ve looked at his record. It’s terrible on crime. It’s terrible on the border. It’s terrible on the military. I can tell you for a fact we do not need somebody that’s going to be bad on crime, bad on borders, bad with the military, bad for the Second Amendment.”
Trump's Risky, Unearned Sanctimony About Al Franken
Asked whether an accused child molester was preferable to a Democrat, the president replied, “Well, he denies it.”
Trump’s stance is remarkable on several levels. First, it contradicts the position the White House has espoused since the first allegations emerged two weeks ago. The administration has avoided assessing the claims, saying instead that if they are true, Moore should step aside. But in his remarks on Tuesday, Trump both seemed to accept Moore’s denials as fact—he also noted that the claims were about events that were many years old—and took the view that even if true, the weight of a Republican vote in the Senate overcame the import of the allegations. While this crass political calculation is not unique, and some Alabama backers of Moore have voiced it in recent days, it’s different to hear the president of the United States say so.
This is the latest case of Trump contradicting earlier statements by his staff, including spokespeople, Cabinet members, and his vice president. Just last week, for example, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said that the president found the allegations “extremely troubling” and said, “The president said in his statement earlier this week that, if the allegations are true, then that Roy Moore should step aside. He still firmly believes that.” Attorney General Jeff Sessions, whose elevation created the current special election, has also said, “I have no reason to doubt these young women.”
The president’s comments Tuesday also put him at odds with his daughter, Ivanka Trump, who said recently, “There’s a special place in hell for people who prey on children,” adding, “I’ve yet to see a valid explanation and I have no reason to doubt the victims’ accounts.” (Jones included that remark in a new ad released Tuesday.) Ivanka Trump has repeatedly seen her own views bulldozed by the president.
The comments also put Trump at odds, not for the first time, with the Republican establishment. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has blasted Moore and said he should step down, as have the National Republican Senatorial Committee and the Republican National Committee. Several Republican senators have called for expelling Moore, should he be elected. One of the few people who has staunchly backed Moore—after briefly wavering—is Steve Bannon, Trump’s former chief strategist and a reflexive opponent of the party mandarins.
Trump’s charge that Jones is weak on crime is doubly ironic. Jones is a former prosecutor who put Klansmen behind bars; his opponent not only was twice removed from the state bench for violating the U.S. Constitution, but in the matter stands accused of committing a crime himself. Additionally, Moore’s judicial record shows that he often dissented from his colleagues in the cases of those accused of sex crimes.
Moore, who has fallen behind Jones in polls since the allegation first began, has flatly denied the accusations against him but has refused to offer specific refutations of any of the women’s accounts, with his campaign instead raging about persecution by the liberal media and Republican establishment. He has said that he did not “generally” date teenage girls, but has not specifically denied having done so, either. One Alabama pastor even praised Moore’s past dating habits, saying, “He did that because there is something about a purity of a young woman, there is something that is good, that’s true, that’s straight and he looked for that.”
On Tuesday, a reporter asked Trump what his message was to women. “Women are very special,” he said. “I think it's a very special time because a lot of things are coming out. And I think that’s good for our society. And I think it’s very, very good for women.”
Yet the subtext of this remark is that he only thinks the revelations are good, and credible, when they target liberals and Democrats. Trump was quick to say that allegations against Harvey Weinstein did not surprise him, and to tweet about claims against Senator Al Franken. Yet in the case of Moore, who faces a range of credible accusers with consistent stories, Trump sees no reason to trust the women, and instead extends the benefit of the doubt to Moore. (Moore is already touting Trump’s words.)
This is in part surprising, because Trump was not a Moore supporter during the primary; he backed Senator Luther Strange, who was appointed to fill Sessions’s seat on a temporary basis but lost the nomination to run for the rest of the term to Moore. Yet as I have written previously, the Moore case presents a difficult political dilemma for Trump, who himself has been accused of sexual harassment by at least 16 women—and who, moreover, was caught on tape boasting about sexually assaulting women. Trump doesn’t just have a vested interest in Moore’s victory, or in being able to dismiss credible accusations; the idea that Republican voters should hold their nose and vote for a candidate despite his past sexual misbehavior was in fact central to his campaign in 2016.
Trump’s equivocal response to the Moore allegations is reminiscent of his equivocal response the violence that followed a neo-Nazi and white-supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, this August. The president first condemned violence “on many sides,” then a few days later said that there were “some very fine people on both sides.”
It’s hard to think of two easier stands to take in American politics than condemning Nazis and denouncing child sex-abuse, and yet Trump has flinched twice. While it takes a distinct lack of moral courage for Trump to say he prefers a candidate for partisan reasons, no matter his past sins, it’s certainly not a timid or typical position.


President Trump pardoned a pair of turkeys as part of the annual Thanksgiving tradition. Asked about whether he supports Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, Trump told reporters voters shouldn’t support Moore’s “liberal” rival, adding that Moore denies the sexual-misconduct allegations against him. The Federal Communications Commission announced plans to dismantle net-neutrality regulations, which would allow companies to charge more for some websites. The House Ethics Committee said it has begun an investigation into accusations of sexual misconduct against Michigan Representative John Conyers. The White House said Trump spoke by phone with Russian President Vladimir Putin about promoting peace in Syria and Ukraine, as well as the looming nuclear threat from North Korea.
This Moment in Time: NPR’s Mary Louise Kelly writes that the emerging sexual-harassment allegations against powerful men is a decisive moment for the media, which has taken too long to cover these stories.
Have Faith: If the Democratic Party wants to win votes in the Trump era, they first have to regain the trust of religious Americans. (Michael Wear)
‘The Nationalist’s Delusion’: In voting for Donald Trump, argues Adam Serwer, his supporters indulged in a contradiction as old as the country itself.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

‘I Was Basically Blackballed’: Documents obtained by BuzzFeed contain allegations of sexual misconduct against Michigan Representative John Conyers—and reveal how Congress keeps such allegations secret. (Paul McLeod and Lissandra Villa)
How Many Died?: CNN contacted 112 funeral homes in Puerto Rico to find out how many people died in the wake of Hurricane Maria. The number was nine times the official death toll. (John D. Sutter, Leyla Santiago, and Khushbu Shah)
Profile of a Secret-Keeper: In an interview with GQ, former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper weighs in on Donald Trump’s “fitness” for office and Russia’s role in American politics. (Mattathias Schwartz)
Why Our Wars Won’t End: As in many long-winded wars, the U.S. is fighting to prevent defeat rather than to achieve lasting victory in many of its conflicts in the Middle East. (Victor Davis Hanson, National Review)
Collision Course: The biggest obstacle to passing a federal budget in December might end up being the DREAM Act. (Rachael Bade and Heather Caygle, Politico)
Keeping Track: Here’s a list of the cases of sexual misconduct that have been brought to light since October 5. (Sarah Almukhtar, Larry Buchanan, and Michael Gold, The New York Times)
In this story, The Atlantic’s Derek Thompson writes that through its economic policies, the Republican Party seems to be waging a war on higher education. Do you think that’s the case? Why or why not?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Wednesday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey), Lena Felton (@lenakfelton), and Taylor Hosking (@Taylor__Hosking)


On Tuesday afternoon, everyone on the White House grounds appeared to be enjoying themselves.
The air was crisp, the three-piece military band lively—greeting reporters with a smooth rendition of Van Morrison’s “Moondance”—and the turkeys delighted to see another day.
The annual pre-Thanksgiving pardoning of two turkeys was this year in the hands of President Trump, who took to the task with obvious satisfaction.
“I feel so good about myself, doing this,” Trump said while stroking Drumstick, the large white turkey who was the recipient of one of Trump’s pardons on Tuesday. (Wishbone, the other turkey who will be allowed to live out its remaining days at the “Gobbler’s Rest” enclosure at Virginia Tech, was pardoned in absentia; every year two turkeys receive the pardon, though only one is granted its reprieve publicly. Both turkeys were guests at the Willard Hotel ahead of the ceremony.)
Trump appeared to revel in the beneficence he was able to bestow upon Drumstick, who, he said before the pardoning, “is going to be very happy.” Drumstick, who weighs 36 pounds, could be heard to gobble several times, perhaps in excitement, before the pardoning began.
The annual turkey pardoning is sometimes a slapstick affair—think, for example, of one of the exonerated turkeys pecking George W. Bush in 2001—and Trump’s own history with fowl is complicated. During a photo shoot for Time in 2015, Trump found himself beleaguered by an irritable bald eagle who mussed his coiffure and tried to peck him when he reached close to the bird.
But this Trump-poultry interaction went off seamlessly. Was it because Trump asked for consent before touching Drumstick (“Am I allowed to touch it”)? Was it because of his complimentary attitude towards Drumstick’s impressive girth (“That’s a big bird. How heavy is that bird? Thirty-six pounds. That’s a big bird.”)? Was it because Trump felt on terra firma due to his recent pardoning of Sheriff Joe Arpaio? Trump noted that the roots of the tradition date back to the Harry Truman administration—but that Truman did not grant the bird a pardon. “He was a tough cookie,” Trump said. “Today, I’m going to be a much nicer president.”
Trump has done much to alter Americans’ image of the presidency, and his regard for the pomp and circumstance of the office is low. But the turkey pardon this year was a moment in which everything seemed perfectly, well, normal.
Looming over the affair, though, as is now the reality for this White House, was the ambient threat of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian meddling in the election, which has inched closer to Trump’s inner circle after former campaign chairman Paul Manafort and his deputy Rick Gates were indicted earlier this month. Trump has reportedly asked his lawyers about his options for pardoning aides, family members, and even himself, alluding to these possibilities publicly in a tweet in July.
Trump joked about his pardoning authorities at the turkey ceremony, suggesting that he had explored options for reversing Barack Obama’s pardon of last year’s turkeys, Tater and Tot, who now live in Virginia.
“As many of you know, I have been very active in overturning a number of executive actions by my predecessor,” Trump said. “However, I have been informed by the White House Counsel’s Office that Tater and Tot’s pardons cannot under any circumstances be revoked. So we’re not going to revoke them. So Tater and Tot, you can rest easy.”
As the ceremony wound down, at least one member of the press had kept their eye on the larger picture.
“Are you going to pardon any people?” a lone reporter, Steven Nelson from the Washington Examiner, shouted from the back.


The battle over birth control and the Affordable Care Act wages on. A handful of liberal state attorneys general have sued the federal government over its new contraception-coverage rules, which exempt employers with religious or moral objections from including birth control in their employee health-insurance plans.
Why Notre Dame Reversed Course on Contraception
For years, religious businesses and nonprofits pounded the government with lawsuits over Obamacare’s birth-control-coverage requirement, until a Supreme Court decision, and, later, the Trump administration, essentially resolved their objections. Now, it’s liberal lawyers who are stoking the culture war. The same players have switched sides and are headed back to the courts, which seem doomed to keep adjudicating disagreements between ever-revolving political majorities.
The lawsuits are headed up by predictable players. Pennsylvania and California headline separate complaints, with Delaware, Maryland, New York, and Virginia joining the latter. California Attorney General Xavier Becerra, a former Democratic U.S. representative, has repeatedly taken up the role of liberal culture-warrior under Trump; last spring, for example, he filed felony charges against the pro-life activists who secretly filmed Planned Parenthood officials discussing the organization’s distribution of fetal tissue. Pennsylvania recently joined other blue states in challenging the Trump administration’s intention to end DACA, the Obama-era program that protected some undocumented young people from deportation.
These new challenges on birth control argue that the Trump administration is illegally limiting women’s access to contraceptives, which will place a cost burden on states that have to cover those services in place of employers. California’s complaint claims that 25 employers in the state, with a combined 54,879 employees, will make use of the accommodation, meaning that “an unknown but substantial number of California women” will turn to publicly funded clinics or state programs for their birth control. Other numbers cited in the suits are similarly small and fuzzy: five potential employers seeking the exemption in Maryland, at least 10 in Virginia, “several” in New York.
Between the two of them, the new lawsuits throw out a kitchen-sink’s worth of legal objections to the new Trump administration rules: violations of the Administrative Procedure Act, which sets requirements around how new agency rules are promulgated; Title VII of the Civil Rights Act and the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, which both bar discrimination based on sex; and the equal-protection, due-process, and establishment clauses in the Constitution. They claim the new rules were made without notifying the public and offering opportunities for comments; and that the introduction of a “moral” objection to birth control, rather than a specifically religious one, is impermissibly broad. Both seek nationwide injunctions on the new Trump administration rules.
In response, religious groups are gearing up to go back to court, even though many of them had considered their cases resolved. Becket, a D.C. law firm focused on religious freedom, has promised to file a brief on behalf of the Little Sisters of the Poor, a group of nuns who care for the elderly at homes around the country. Mark Rienzi, one of the group’s lawyers, was disdainful toward the new lawsuits in a press call. He questioned why new lawsuits had been filed in new courts by players who weren’t involved in the previous birth-control litigation. “These are political grandstanding lawsuits,” he said. “They are not winners.”
As Congress keeps up its nonstop political standoffs, and the country sinks further into sharp division over the Trump administration, the courts may be the primary arena where policymaking actually happens. In this case, litigation has ping-ponged back and forth between the two sides as the federal government shifted its stance. As the birth-control issue comes back around for another spin in the headlines, cultural roles have shifted, too: It’s no longer the religious groups fighting a culture war against what they see as a tyrannical majority. It’s liberals.


As sexual-harassment claims topple powerful men in media, movies, and elsewhere, Congress retains the potential to be the biggest arena for such revelations.
That is not solely because it involves the governance of the nation and the blood sport of politics. Combine a milieu that is historically (and currently) heavily male, entitled and powerful men, a system that allows members to keep claims quiet and mostly hidden, and a business in which victims are particularly reluctant to speak out for fear of reprisal, and the result is an atmosphere that is catastrophically overrun with sexual harassment. But while many women have spoken about their own experiences in recent weeks, few names of abusers have emerged.
The Deepening Partisan Split Over Sexual Misconduct
Until now. Last week, radio host Leeann Tweeden said that Senator Al Franken, a Minnesota Democrat, had kissed her against her will during a 2006 USO tour, and she also shared a photo in which he groped or pretended to grope her over a flak jacket as she slept. Then on Monday, another woman alleged that Franken had groped her at the 2010 Minnesota State Fair.
Even more explosive was a BuzzFeed report Monday night about John Conyers, the Michigan Democrat. According to documents obtained by BuzzFeed, Conyers agreed to a settlement of more than $27,000 in 2015 after a woman filed a complaint saying Conyers had fired her for rejecting his sexual advances. (Conyers claims to have had no idea about the claims or settlements.)
The story seems to encapsulate many of the elements that makes Congress so susceptible to harassment. Conyers, as its longest-serving member, is the dean of the House of Representatives. To give a sense of what that means, he was elected in 1965, and boasted last week during a hearing of the House Judiciary Committee, of which he is the ranking Democratic member, that he was on Nixon’s enemies list. That makes him a great example of entrenched male power.
Second, the story shows how members (or their aides) can quietly hide payments to accusers, helping to cover up allegations and the cost to taxpayers of settling them. Typically, confidential payments are made from a special U.S. Treasury fund established for the purpose. The Washington Post reported, “Between 1997 and 2014, the U.S. Treasury has paid $15.2 million in 235 awards and settlements for Capitol Hill workplace violations, according to the congressional Office of Compliance. The statistics do not break down the exact nature of the violations.”
These payments are often small in comparison with private-sector agreements, and because they are confidential, citizens cannot know where taxpayer dollars are going, nor can they use the knowledge of harassment cases to perform the ultimate and unique act of voter accountability in a democracy: firing a misbehaving lawmaker.
In the Conyers case, the money was even more opaque, because rather than paying the woman out of the fund—where it would have at least appeared in aggregate numbers—it was paid out of his office budget, and effectively made her a no-show employee for three months, keeping her on payroll as a temporary staffer. (House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said she was unaware of the settlement.) It’s impossible to know whether this practice is widespread or unique, but if the former, the Office of Compliance numbers in the Post might represent a dramatic undercount of the numbers of such claims that have been settled.
Finally, the Conyers case highlights the importance of the fear of reprisal. Politics, and Capitol Hill in particular, are all about connections; you can’t move up without happy bosses and good recommendations. Congress has no HR office, but complaints move through the Office of Compliance, which requires a confidential and lengthy process that includes counseling and mediation; moreover, many staffers don’t even know about it. The woman who filed the complaint against Conyers asked that her name be withheld, even though the settlement is over, because of fear of retribution. “I was basically blackballed. There was nowhere I could go,” she told BuzzFeed.
As a result, it’s rare for such cases to become public. The backstory of the article is intriguing on its own: BuzzFeed initially obtained the documents from Mike Cernovich, the pro-Trump blogger and prominent proponent of the bogus “Pizzagate” conspiracy theory. BuzzFeed verified the documents through other means. The unusual provenance in this case underscores how piecemeal and inconsistent the revelation of other congressional harassment scandals is likely to be.
In a statement Tuesday morning, Speaker Paul Ryan called the story “extremely troubling” and noted that he has ordered a review of House policies on harassment and discrimination.
In addition to the Conyers report, Representative Diana DeGette, a Colorado Democrat, told The Denver Post that former Representative Bob Filner, a California Democrat, groped her in an elevator. After leaving Congress, Filner became mayor of San Diego and was then forced to resign after multiple sexual-harassment allegations.
After the first Franken allegation, his fate seemed precarious. Some Democrats felt that Franken should resign immediately, lest the party be accused of hypocrisy is criticizing Republicans including Alabama U.S. Senate candidate Roy Moore. But when Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell called for a Senate Ethics Committee inquiry, Democrats joined in that call, and Franken apologized and said he also supported the inquiry. That seemed to have staved off a resignation, at least temporarily.
But the new allegation against Franken, from a woman named Lindsay Menz, injects new instability. Menz met Franken, then in his first term in the Senate, at the Minnesota State Fair in 2010. She was working at a booth for her father’s business and took a series of pictures with celebrities and politicians, and she says Franken groped her butt while taking a photo. She told several people, including her father and husband, about the incident at the time. In a statement to CNN, which first reported the story, Franken said, “I take thousands of photos at the state fair surrounded by hundreds of people, and I certainly don’t remember taking this picture. I feel badly that Ms. Menz came away from our interaction feeling disrespected."
While the nature and scale of the allegations against Franken, Conyers, and Filner run a range of times and degrees, there’s one notable thing that connects all of them: their party affiliation. The Democratic Party has championed equal pay for women, laws like the Violence Against Women Act, and more, and its members have accused the Republican Party of a “war on women.” Franken has called for greater protections for women who are sexually harassed. Conyers and Filner both got their start in politics during the civil-rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s; Conyers was at Freedom Day in Selma, and Filner was a Freedom Rider. Just last month, Conyers’s colleague Maxine Waters praised Conyers for his commitment to women’s rights.
Each of these men surely views himself as a genuine progressive and a champion of women, at least in the abstract. But the stories and allegations against them show that progressive values do not prevent men from harassing women; and moreover, championing women through politics, though important, does not excuse inappropriate private behavior.
Of course, the claims against Moore, and a raft of previous claims against Republicans, demonstrate that both parties face serious problems with sexual harassment. And if there’s one thing the last two months have taught, it’s that there are likely to be many, many more revelations about members of Congress in the weeks ahead.


Democrats ignored broad swaths of religious America in the 2016 election campaign and the nation has suffered because of it. Yet calls for a recommitment to faith outreach—particularly to white and other conservative or moderate religious voters—have been met in some corners of liberal punditry with a response as common as it is unwarranted. Some quarters of the Democratic party would rather maintain rhetorical and ideological purity than win with a more inclusive coalition. For the sake of the country, the party must turn back to people of faith.
Hillary Wants to Preach
We know faith outreach works, because it has worked before. In 2005, after the reelection of a president many Democrats believed was clearly unfit for leadership, a concerted decision was made to close the “God Gap” that the GOP had so effectively exploited. Yes, the Democratic Party was losing among white religious people, but there was also an understanding in the party that its margins among black and Hispanic voters were limited by the perception that the party was antagonistic toward religion. Democrats took back Congress in the 2006 midterms, through a combination of direct engagement, district-based flexibility on policy, and rhetorical adjustments. The majority gained in 2006 is the majority that delivered all of the legislative-policy wins progressives hail from the first two years of the Obama administration, including the Affordable Care Act.
Barack Obama built upon this effort to reach people of faith, incorporating all three primary elements of successful faith outreach: direct engagement, policy commitments, and rhetoric. Both of his campaigns included direct, explicit engagement of people of faith that was built into the structure of the campaign (staff, website, merchandise, press). Obama not only spoke about the role of faith in his own life, but his rhetoric provided a vision for a positive role for people of faith to play in America under his presidency. On policy, the president made concentrated efforts to positively connect his policies to the values and priorities of religious voters, while also placing important limitations on how far his policies would go on social issues where he generally disagreed with religious conservatives. His reelection campaign—where I directed religious outreach—put forward a positive platform of policy commitments on issues of shared concern with faith voters.
In 2016, as I have argued elsewhere, the Clinton campaign and Democrats ignored virtually all of the lessons learned from the previous decade of Democratic faith outreach. Her campaign’s approach to religious voters amounted to political malpractice that simply can’t be repeated by the party moving forward. The campaign virtually neglected direct engagement with many religious constituencies, refusing to ask people of faith for their vote while taking policy positions that made it easy for Trump to prey on their sense of embattlement.
For all of the critique of the 81 percent of white evangelicals who voted for Donald Trump, it’s a bit too convenient for those who never cared about Democratic faith outreach in the first place to harp on the 81 percent without pointing out the 16 percent: the middling, previously unfathomable percentage of white evangelicals who voted for Hillary Clinton. In 2012, Barack Obama—the first president in American history to endorse same-sex marriage, the target of a massive campaign accusing him of waging a “war on religion”—won 21 percent of white evangelicals. Because white evangelicals account for more than a quarter of the American electorate, that five-point difference accounts for a swing of millions of votes nationally. In a state like Michigan, if Hillary Clinton would have matched Obama’s 2012 numbers among white evangelicals, she would have won the state comfortably.
Calls for the Democrats to return to a robust religious outreach have received pushback among some influential voices. The Democratic Party has spent much of the first-year that Republicans have controlled both the White House and Congress by debating which Democratic voters it can afford to cut loose—specifically, whether there’s a place in the party for pro-life voters at all.  Following a controversy involving Heath Mello—a candidate for mayor in Omaha, Nebraska, who was deemed to be insufficiently pro-choice—Democratic party chairman Tom Perez said in a statement that it was “not negotiable” that every Democrat should support abortion rights. Mello lost the election to a Republican. Perez’s standard was news to 23 million pro-life Democrats, and Democratic elected officials who have received party support even if they hold nuanced positions on abortion.  
No matter how consistently NARAL’s candidates lose to vehemently pro-life, down-the-line Republican politicians, they continue to attack successful Democrats who do not go along with whatever the new litmus test issue is for being “fully pro-choice.” In the closing weeks of the 2016 election, NARAL was running victory laps with its chosen candidate, Katie McGinty, apparently deciding abortion rights was a strong way to close out a campaign in Pennsylvania. Unfortunately, Pat Toomey was elected to a second term, a seat that nearly cost Democrats and the nation repeal of the Affordable Care Act, and just last month served as the deciding vote on the Republican budget.
Ignoring faith voters will always be abhorrent from the perspective that elected officials ought to represent and speak to all of the people they represent. But that is not all that is at stake. At some point, the Democratic Party, advocacy groups, and pundits will have to answer to voters and their own constituencies. Women, who are far from uniformly pro-choice, may begin to ask if it is worth putting policies like the ACA’s coverage for maternal health at risk just so the Democratic Party can take symbolic stances on policies that have no reasonable expectation of passage in the short-term (like repeal of the Hyde Amendment).
At some point, years after the legalization of same-sex marriage, LGBT voters and allies who care about LGBT rights may wonder why Democrats are content to push the Equality Act, which  no Democrat believes can pass in the short-term, while neglecting a more viable path forward with evangelicals and others who are willing to support LGBT rights if reasonable religious freedom protections are included. Does the LGBT American who is worried they can get married on Sunday, but fired on Monday, know this?
African American and Hispanic Democrats may ask why their party is willing to take symbolic, extreme positions on social issues—positions many Hispanic and African American voters do not even support—when voter disenfranchisement and deportation of Dreamers are at stake. Does intersectionality really demand that the Little Sisters of the Poor be held to provide contraceptive coverage to celibate nuns even if the political cost of that policy is the election of Republicans who are opposed to the vast majority of policy objectives supported by those who embrace the idea of intersectionality?
Ideological consolidation works well for D.C. advocacy groups and politicians who raise money off demonizing their opponents, but it costs the people they claim to defend. Democrats can continue to seek ideological purity and wait for the day when the Republicans are so deplorable that Americans have no other choice, but that day will not come soon enough for the voters they represent. The moral vacuum that is Donald Trump, and the fracturing that is occurring in the Republican Party, offer Democrats an opportunity to regain what they have lost among religious voters, and build a lasting majority. They can do this through returning to the faith community with direct engagement, rhetoric, and policy commitments.
Barack Obama was right when he said in the wake of the 2016 election that Democrats have to “show up.” We have to take their message to all communities, including religious communities. The DNC needs to hire and keep faith outreach staff who are equipped to reach out to all religious Americans, inclusive of religious Americans of minority faiths, theologically conservative traditions, and all racial and ethnic backgrounds. Democratic candidates should answer the tough questions about policy issues people of faith care about, even if their answers will be both unsatisfactory to those who disagree and worrisome to their fiercest backers. Democratic elected officials should get to know the clergy and churches that they represent, even if there’s no clear political benefit. One of the reasons hucksters like Robert Jeffress, one of Trump’s primary evangelical backers, have been able to stoke so much fear among conservative religious people is because they operate in these environments virtually uncontested. If someone who claimed to be your friend told you someone hated you, and whenever you saw that person all you caught a glimpse of was their cold shoulder, would you not just assume that person hated you? Many religious voters believe they are hated by Democrats, because many Democrats seem disinterested, at best, in engaging them.
Rhetorically, a few Democrats are showing the party the way forward. Senator Chris Coons, a graduate of Yale’s* Divinity School, wrote for The Atlantic that “progressive values can’t just be secular values.” Kamala Harris, a strong progressive herself, has been raising money and boosting support for centrist Democrats that some “Democrats” would like to see lose because of their position on the Hyde Amendment. Outreach to people of faith may not be a top priority for some activists, but the Democratic Party must learn the difference between advocates who view the party has a vehicle to advance their issues, and the Democratic Party’s mission of actually electing Democrats.
Finally, while the Democratic Party can make significant advances with people of faith just by taking a more open posture toward them rhetorically and conducting concentrated outreach to America’s diverse faith communities, a different policy approach is needed to maximize potential gains. The Democratic Party has a positive case to make to people of faith around issues like poverty alleviation, pro-family work and tax policies, immigration, criminal-justice reform, environmental stewardship, adoption, anti-human trafficking efforts, and so many others. The party can and must offer a proactive, energetic appeal to people of faith that they want their votes, and that there is good reason, based on their values, to vote for Democrats.
Democratic candidates would pick up votes and enthusiasm from faith voters just by explicitly connecting their policy priorities with the priorities, values, and interests of religious communities, but they should also be responsive to areas of concern and disagreement. The party’s ever-leftward, ever-symbolic, and ever-antagonistic policy approach on social issues must be tempered to win the votes of disaffected religious voters in the Trump era.
This does not mean the party must become pro-life, or that the party must move an inch on supporting LGBT rights. Critics of Democratic faith outreach, on both the right and the left, who suggest this is the only alternative to ignoring faith voters have their own interests and are comfortable with the status quo that leads to purity for Democrats and victory for Republicans.
On abortion, one path forward is for the party to reverse its change to the platform on the Hyde Amendment, and return to focusing its argument on the idea that abortion should be legal, rather than a social good that should be encouraged. Instead of viewing Republican extremism as an excuse to move to the left on abortion in 2016, Democrats could have appealed to the broad middle by claiming the historic reduction of the abortion rate under President Obama as a Democratic success story. Unfortunately, the most political, vehement pro-choice advocates do not want Democrats to applaud the reduction in the abortion rate, because they are afraid the American people will then value lowering the abortion rate as an end in and of itself. Well, again, sometimes the interests of advocacy groups will not align with the interest of the Democratic Party or our national politics. How can we let parochial political calculations prevent us from pointing to the data, and saying out loud that a lower abortion rate is a positive development any moral society should embrace?
On religious freedom, Democrats should draw clear lines where they can to stem the fear-mongering that flourished in 2016 because of their silence. Democrats should rule out taking away church’s tax-exempt status. Democrats should make clear that religious institutions should be allowed to organize around their faith without government interference.  They should be clear that just as George W. Bush never threatened the religious freedom of churches who supported same-sex marriage in 2004 while he was campaigning for a federal marriage amendment, Democrats do not believe the government’s role is to coerce ecclesial transformation on questions of LGBT inclusion. This is what the separation of Church and State demands. Wherever individual Democratic politicians stand on religious freedom in the context of LGBT rights, the essential and responsible action is for all Democrats to explicitly, clearly draw the line somewhere.
I understand many critiques of religious voters, primarily white religious voters, who were willing to vote for Trump. I share Ta-Nehisi Coates’s assessment that while surely not every Trump voter is a racist, Trump’s racist appeals were certainly not a deal-breaker for his supporters. But I wonder if, had Hillary Clinton won, the same level of critique would have been applied to the fact that Clinton would have won by running a campaign that excluded many religious voters. No one has asked why people who voted for Hillary Clinton failed to adequately consider the sincere concerns of conservative religious people regarding the consequences of Hillary’s victory for them.
Democrats’ political vision for America needs to include a vision for how religious Americans with deep convictions can thrive in it. If it does not, Democrats will lose more often than we should, and even when we win, the social costs will be great. Democrats cannot be a functional governing party and either ignore religious conservatives (or any other significant community), or cast them as enemies who must be overcome. Given the Clinton campaign’s posture toward much of the faith community, particularly conservative evangelicals and Catholics, a vote for Clinton amounted to their co-signing their own irrelevance. As a Christian who cares for the common good, and as a Democrat, I actually think more of them should have made that choice. But is that really all Democrats can or want to offer? Is that what statesmanship requires? Does it even measure up to the demands of the political moment?
There are elements of the Trump coalition Democrats should never go after, and need not accommodate, but the party needs to think carefully about the wisdom, propriety, and consequences of making that judgment regarding people of faith. Democrats have made progress before, and they can do it again, particularly in this moment and at this time of such consequence. The Democratic Party can regain its footing in the Trump era if it will choose to once again tell the story of a nation where people of faith have a positive, contributing role to play, too.

Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Senator Chris Coons attended Harvard Divinity School; it was Yale Divinity School. We regret the error.*


THIRTY YEARS AGO, nearly half of Louisiana voted for a Klansman, and the media struggled to explain why.
It was 1990 and David Duke, the former grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan, astonished political observers when he came within striking distance of defeating incumbent Democratic U.S. Senator J. Bennett Johnston, earning 43 percent of the vote. If Johnston’s Republican rival hadn’t dropped out of the race and endorsed him at the last minute, the outcome might have been different.
To hear more feature stories, see our full list or get the Audm iPhone app.
Was it economic anxiety? The Washington Post reported that the state had “a large working class that has suffered through a long recession.” Was it a blow against the state’s hated political establishment? An editorial from United Press International explained, “Louisianans showed the nation by voting for Duke that they were mad as hell and not going to take it any more.” Was it anti-Washington rage? A Loyola University pollster argued, “There were the voters who liked Duke, those who hated J. Bennett Johnston, and those who just wanted to send a message to Washington.”
What message would those voters have been trying to send by putting a Klansman into office?
“There’s definitely a message bigger than Louisiana here,” Susan Howell, then the director of the Survey Research Center at the University of New Orleans, told the Los Angeles Times. “There is a tremendous amount of anger and frustration among working-class whites, particularly where there is an economic downturn. These people feel left out; they feel government is not responsive to them.”
Duke’s strong showing, however, wasn’t powered merely by poor or working-class whites—and the poorest demographic in the state, black voters, backed Johnston. Duke “clobbered Johnston in white working-class districts, ran even with him in predominantly white middle-class suburbs, and lost only because black Louisianans, representing one-quarter of the electorate, voted against him in overwhelming numbers,” The Washington Post reported in 1990. Duke picked up nearly 60 percent of the white vote. Faced with Duke’s popularity among whites of all income levels, the press framed his strong showing largely as the result of the economic suffering of the white working classes. Louisiana had “one of the least-educated electorates in the nation; and a large working class that has suffered through a long recession,” The Post stated.
By accepting the economic theory of Duke’s success, the media were buying into the candidate’s own vision of himself as a savior of the working class. He had appealed to voters in economic terms: He tore into welfare and foreign aid, affirmative action and outsourcing, and attacked political-action committees for subverting the interests of the common man. He even tried to appeal to black voters, buying a 30-minute ad in which he declared, “I’m not your enemy.”
Duke’s candidacy had initially seemed like a joke. He was a former Klan leader who had showed up to public events in a Nazi uniform and lied about having served in the Vietnam War, a cartoonishly vain supervillain whose belief in his own status as a genetic Übermensch was belied by his plastic surgeries. The joke soon soured, as many white Louisiana voters made clear that Duke’s past didn’t bother them.
Many of Duke’s voters steadfastly denied that the former Klan leader was a racist. The St. Petersburg Times reported in 1990 that Duke supporters “are likely to blame the media for making him look like a racist.” The paper quoted G. D. Miller, a “59-year-old oil-and-gas lease buyer,” who said, “The way I understood the Klan, it’s not anti-this or anti-that.”
Duke’s rejoinder to the ads framing him as a racist resonated with his supporters. “Remember,” he told them at rallies, “when they smear me, they are really smearing you.”
The economic explanation carried the day: Duke was a freak creature of the bayou who had managed to tap into the frustrations of a struggling sector of the Louisiana electorate with an abnormally high tolerance for racist messaging.
While the rest of the country gawked at Louisiana and the Duke fiasco, Walker Percy, a Louisiana author, gave a prophetic warning to The New York Times.
“Don’t make the mistake of thinking David Duke is a unique phenomenon confined to Louisiana rednecks and yahoos. He’s not,” Percy said. “He’s not just appealing to the old Klan constituency, he’s appealing to the white middle class. And don’t think that he or somebody like him won’t appeal to the white middle class of Chicago or Queens.”
A few days after Duke’s strong showing, the Queens-born businessman Donald Trump appeared on CNN’s Larry King Live.
“It’s anger. I mean, that’s an anger vote. People are angry about what’s happened. People are angry about the jobs. If you look at Louisiana, they’re really in deep trouble,” Trump told King.
Trump later predicted that Duke, if he ran for president, would siphon most of his votes away from the incumbent, George H. W. Bush—in the process revealing his own understanding of the effectiveness of white-nationalist appeals to the GOP base.
“Whether that be good or bad, David Duke is going to get a lot of votes. Pat Buchanan—who really has many of the same theories, except it's in a better package—Pat Buchanan is going to take a lot of votes away from George Bush,” Trump said. “So if you have these two guys running, or even one of them running, I think George Bush could be in big trouble.” Little more than a year later, Buchanan embarrassed Bush by drawing 37 percent of the vote in New Hampshire’s Republican primary.
In February 2016, Trump was asked by a different CNN host about the former Klan leader’s endorsement of his Republican presidential bid.
“Well, just so you understand, I don’t know anything about David Duke. Okay?,” Trump said. “I don’t know anything about what you’re even talking about with white supremacy or white supremacists. So I don’t know.”
Less than three weeks before the 2016 presidential election, Donald Trump declared himself “the least racist person you have ever met.”
Even before he won, the United States was consumed by a debate over the nature of his appeal. Was racism the driving force behind Trump’s candidacy? If so, how could Americans, the vast majority of whom say they oppose racism, back a racist candidate?
During the final few weeks of the campaign, I asked dozens of Trump supporters about their candidate’s remarks regarding Muslims and people of color. I wanted to understand how these average Republicans—those who would never read the neo-Nazi website The Daily Stormer or go to a Klan rally at a Confederate statue—had nevertheless embraced someone who demonized religious and ethnic minorities. What I found was that Trump embodied his supporters’ most profound beliefs—combining an insistence that discriminatory policies were necessary with vehement denials that his policies would discriminate and absolute outrage that the question would even be asked.
It was not just Trump’s supporters who were in denial about what they were voting for, but Americans across the political spectrum, who, as had been the case with those who had backed Duke, searched desperately for any alternative explanation—outsourcing, anti-Washington anger, economic anxiety—to the one staring them in the face. The frequent postelection media expeditions to Trump country to see whether the fever has broken, or whether Trump’s most ardent supporters have changed their minds, are a direct outgrowth of this mistake. These supporters will not change their minds, because this is what they always wanted: a president who embodies the rage they feel toward those they hate and fear, while reassuring them that that rage is nothing to be ashamed of.
“I believe that everybody has a right to be in the United States no matter what your color, no matter what your race, your religion, what sex you prefer to be with, so I’m not against that at all, but I think that some of us just say racial statements without even thinking about it,” a customer-care worker named Pam—who, like several people I spoke with, declined to give her last name—told me at a rally in Pennsylvania. However, she also defended Trump’s remarks on race and religion explicitly when I asked about them. “I think the other party likes to blow it out of proportion and kind of twist his words, but what he says is what he means, and it’s what a lot of us are thinking.”
Most Trump supporters I spoke with were not people who thought of themselves as racist. Rather, they saw themselves as antiracist, as people who held no hostility toward religious and ethnic minorities whatsoever—a sentiment they projected onto their candidate.
“I don’t feel like he’s racist. I don’t personally feel like anybody would have been able to do what he’s been able to do with his personal business if he were a horrible person,” Michelle, a stay-at-home mom in Virginia, told me.
Far more numerous and powerful than the extremists in Berkeley and Charlottesville who have drawn headlines since Trump’s election, these Americans, who would never think of themselves as possessing racial animus, voted for a candidate whose ideal vision of America excludes millions of fellow citizens because of their race or religion.
The specific dissonance of Trumpism—advocacy for discriminatory, even cruel, policies combined with vehement denials that such policies are racially motivated—provides the emotional core of its appeal. It is the most recent manifestation of a contradiction as old as the United States, a society founded by slaveholders on the principle that all men are created equal.
While other factors also led to Trump’s victory—the last-minute letter from former FBI Director James Comey, the sexism that rationalized supporting Trump despite his confession of sexual assault, Hillary Clinton’s neglect of the Midwest—had racism been toxic to the American electorate, Trump’s candidacy would not have been viable.
Nearly a year into his presidency, Trump has reneged or faltered on many of his biggest campaign promises—on renegotiating NAFTA, punishing China, and replacing the Affordable Care Act with something that preserves all its popular provisions but with none of its drawbacks. But his commitment to endorsing state violence to remake the country into something resembling an idealized past has not wavered.
He made a farce of his populist campaign by putting bankers in charge of the economy and industry insiders at the head of the federal agencies established to regulate their businesses. But other campaign promises have been more faithfully enacted: his ban on travelers from Muslim-majority countries; the unleashing of immigration-enforcement agencies against anyone in the country illegally regardless of whether he poses a danger; an attempt to cut legal immigration in half; and an abdication of the Justice Department’s constitutional responsibility to protect black Americans from corrupt or abusive police, discriminatory financial practices, and voter suppression. In his own stumbling manner, Trump has pursued the race-based agenda promoted during his campaign. As the president continues to pursue a program that places the social and political hegemony of white Christians at its core, his supporters have shown few signs of abandoning him.
One hundred thirty-nine years since Reconstruction, and half a century since the tail end of the civil-rights movement, a majority of white voters backed a candidate who explicitly pledged to use the power of the state against people of color and religious minorities, and stood by him as that pledge has been among the few to survive the first year of his presidency. Their support was enough to win the White House, and has solidified a return to a politics of white identity that has been one of the most destructive forces in American history. This all occurred before the eyes of a disbelieving press and political class, who plunged into fierce denial about how and why this had happened. That is the story of the 2016 election.
One of the first mentions of Trump in The New York Times was in 1973, as a result of a federal discrimination lawsuit against his buildings over his company’s refusal to rent to black tenants. In 1989, he took out a full-page newspaper ad suggesting that the Central Park Five, black and Latino youths accused of the assault and rape of a white jogger, should be put to death. They were later exonerated. His rise to prominence in Republican politics was first fueled by his embrace of the conspiracy theory that the first black president of the United States was not an American citizen. “I have people that have been studying [Obama's birth certificate] and they cannot believe what they're finding,” he said in 2011. “If he wasn't born in this country, which is a real possibility ... then he has pulled one of the great cons in the history of politics.”
Trump began his candidacy with a speech announcing that undocumented immigrants from Mexico were “bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists.” And “some,” he said, were “good people.” To keep them out, he proposed building a wall and humiliating Mexico for its citizens’ transgressions by forcing their government to pay for it. He vowed to ban Muslims from entering the United States. Amid heightened attention to fatal police shootings of unarmed black people and a subsequent cry for accountability, Trump decried a “war on police” while telling black Americans they lived in “war zones,” in communities that were in “the worst shape they’ve ever been in”—a remarkable claim to make in a country that once subjected black people to chattel slavery and Jim Crow. He promised to institute a national “stop and frisk” policy, a police tactic that turns black and Latino Americans into criminal suspects in their own neighborhoods, and which had recently been struck down in his native New York as unconstitutional.
Trump expanded on this vision in his 2016 Republican National Convention speech, which gestured toward the suffering of nonwhites and painted a dark portrait of an America under assault by people of color through crime, immigration, and competition for jobs. Trump promised, “The crime and violence that today afflicts our nation will soon come to an end,” citing “the president’s hometown of Chicago.” He warned that “180,000 illegal immigrants with criminal records, ordered deported from our country, are tonight roaming free to threaten peaceful citizens,” and said that Clinton was “calling for a radical 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees on top of existing massive refugee flows coming into our country under President Obama.”
A bleak vision, but one that any regular Fox News viewer would recognize.
The white-supremacist journal American Renaissance applauded Trump’s message. “Each political party proposes an implicit racial vision,” wrote one contributor. “A Trump Administration is a return to the America that won the West, landed on the moon, and built an economy and military that stunned the world. Non-whites can participate in this, but only if they accept the traditional (which is to say, white) norms of American culture.”
Most Trump supporters I spoke with denied that they endorsed this racial vision—even as they defended Trump’s rhetoric.
“Anytime that you disagree with someone’s point of view—if you say, ‘I don’t like Islam’—people say you’re an Islamophobe, or if you don’t like gay marriage, you’re a homophobe, and you’re hateful against the gays and Islam, or different things like that, where people are entitled to their opinion. But it doesn’t mean that you’re hateful or discriminatory,” Scott Colvin, who identified himself as a Navy veteran, told me at a Trump rally in Virginia. “Seeing how women are treated in the Islamic religion, it’s not very good, and he’s bringing a lot of light to it—that there is a lot of drugs and crime coming across the border, and that Islam does not respect women, does not respect homosexuals—and so calling it out and raising awareness to that is pretty important.”
“There’s very little evidence of Trump being openly racist or sexist,” Colvin insisted. “It wasn’t until he started running for president that all these stories started coming out. I don’t believe it. I’ve done the research.”
The plain meaning of Trumpism exists in tandem with denials of its implications; supporters and opponents alike understand that the president’s policies and rhetoric target religious and ethnic minorities, and behave accordingly. But both supporters and opponents usually stop short of calling these policies racist. It is as if there were a pothole in the middle of the street that every driver studiously avoided, but that most insisted did not exist even as they swerved around it.
That this shared understanding is seldom spoken aloud does not prevent people from acting according to its logic. It is the reason why, when Trump’s Muslim ban was first implemented, immigration officials stopped American citizens with Arabic names; why agencies such as Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Border Patrol have pursued fathers and mothers outside of schools and churches and deported them, as the administration has insisted that it is prioritizing the deportation of criminals; why Attorney General Jeff Sessions targets drug scofflaws with abandon and has dismantled even cooperative efforts at police accountability; why the president’s voting commission has committed itself to policies that will disenfranchise voters of color; why both schoolchildren and adults know to invoke the president’s name as a taunt against blacks, Latinos, and Muslims; why white supremacists wear hats that say “Make America great again.”
One measure of the allure of Trump’s white identity politics is the extent to which it has overridden other concerns as his administration has faltered. The president’s supporters have stood by him even as he has evinced every quality they described as a deal breaker under Obama. Conservatives attacked Obama’s lack of faith; Trump is a thrice-married libertine who has never asked God for forgiveness. They accused Obama of being under malign foreign influence; Trump eagerly accepted the aid of a foreign adversary during the election. They accused Obama of genuflecting before Russian President Vladimir Putin; Trump has refused to even criticize Putin publicly. They attacked Obama for his ties to Tony Rezko, the crooked real-estate agent; Trump’s ties to organized crime are too numerous to name. Conservatives said Obama was lazy; Trump “gets bored and likes to watch TV.” They said Obama’s golfing was excessive; as of August Trump had spent nearly a fifth of his presidency golfing. They attributed Obama’s intellectual prowess to his teleprompter; Trump seems unable to describe the basics of any of his own policies. They said Obama was a self-obsessed egomaniac; Trump is unable to broach topics of public concern without boasting. Conservatives said Obama quietly used the power of the state to attack his enemies; Trump has publicly attempted to use the power of the state to attack his enemies. Republicans said Obama was racially divisive; Trump has called Nazis “very fine people.” Conservatives portrayed Obama as a vapid celebrity; Trump is a vapid celebrity.
There is virtually no personality defect that conservatives accused Obama of possessing that Trump himself does not actually possess. This, not some uncanny oracular talent, is the reason Trump’s years-old tweets channeling conservative anger at Obama apply so perfectly to his own present conduct.
Trump’s great political insight was that Obama’s time in office inflicted a profound psychological wound upon many white Americans, one that he could remedy by adopting the false narrative that placed the first black president outside the bounds of American citizenship. He intuited that Obama’s presence in the White House decreased the value of what W. E. B. Du Bois described as the “psychological wage” of whiteness across all classes of white Americans, and that the path to their hearts lay in invoking a bygone past when this affront had not taken place, and could not take place.
That the legacy of the first black president could be erased by a birther, that the woman who could have been the first female president was foiled by a man who confessed to sexual assault on tape—these were not drawbacks to Trump’s candidacy, but central to understanding how he would wield power, and on whose behalf.
Americans act with the understanding that Trump’s nationalism promises to restore traditional boundaries of race, gender, and sexuality. The nature of that same nationalism is to deny its essence, the better to salve the conscience and spare the soul.

Among the most popular explanations for Trump’s victory and the Trump phenomenon writ large is the Calamity Thesis: the belief that Trump’s election was the direct result of some great, unacknowledged social catastrophe—the opioid crisis, free trade, a decline in white Americans’ life expectancy—heretofore ignored by cloistered elites in their coastal bubbles. The irony is that the Calamity Thesis is by far the preferred white-elite explanation for Trumpism, and is frequently invoked in arguments among elites as a way of accusing other elites of being out of touch.
Perhaps the most prominent data point for the Calamity Thesis is a pair of recent Brookings Institution studies by the professors Anne Case and Angus Deaton, which showed that life expectancy has fallen among less-educated white Americans due to what they call “deaths of despair” from drugs, alcohol, and suicide. While the studies themselves make no mention of Trump or the election, the effects they describe are frequently invoked as explanations for the president’s appeal: White people without college degrees are living in deprivation, and in their despair, they turned to a racist demagogue who promised to solve their problems.
This explanation appeals to whites across the political spectrum. On the right, it serves as an indictment of elitist liberals who used their power to assist religious and ethnic minorities rather than all Americans; on the left, it offers a glimmer of hope that such voters can be won over by a more left-wing or redistributionist economic policy. It also has the distinct advantage of conferring innocence upon what is often referred to as the “white working class.” After all, it wasn’t white working-class voters’ fault. They were suffering; they had to do something.
The studies’ methodology is sound, as is the researchers’ recognition that many poor and white working-class Americans are struggling. But the research does not support the conclusions many have drawn from it—that economic or social desperation by itself drove white Americans to Donald Trump.
It’s true that most Trump voters framed his appeal in economic terms. Kelly, a health-care worker in North Carolina, echoed other Trump supporters when she told me that to her, “Make America great again” meant “people being able to get jobs, people being able to come off food stamps, welfare, and that sort of thing.” But a closer look at the demographics of the 2016 electorate shows something more complex than a working-class revolt sparked by prolonged suffering.
Clinton defeated Trump handily among Americans making less than $50,000 a year. Among voters making more than that, the two candidates ran roughly even. The electorate, however, skews wealthier than the general population. Voters making less than $50,000, whom Clinton won by a proportion of 53 to 41, accounted for only 36 percent of the votes cast, while those making more than $50,000—whom Trump won by a single point—made up 64 percent. The most economically vulnerable Americans voted for Clinton overwhelmingly; the usual presumption is exactly the opposite.
If you look at white voters alone, a different picture emerges. Trump defeated Clinton among white voters in every income category, winning by a margin of 57 to 34 among whites making less than $30,000; 56 to 37 among those making between $30,000 and $50,000; 61 to 33 for those making $50,000 to $100,000; 56 to 39 among those making $100,000 to $200,000; 50 to 45 among those making $200,000 to $250,000; and 48 to 43 among those making more than $250,000. In other words, Trump won white voters at every level of class and income. He won workers, he won managers, he won owners, he won robber barons. This is not a working-class coalition; it is a nationalist one.
But Trump’s greater appeal among low-income white voters doesn’t vindicate the Calamity Thesis. White working-class Americans dealing directly with factors that lead to a death of despair were actually less likely to support Trump, and those struggling economically were not any more likely to support him. As a 2017 study by the Public Religion Research Institute and The Atlantic found, “White working-class voters who reported that someone in their household was dealing with a health issue—such as drug addiction, alcohol abuse, or depression—were actually less likely to express support for Trump’s candidacy,” while white working-class voters who had “experienced a loss of social and economic standing were not any more likely to favor Trump than those whose status remained the same or improved.”
Trump’s support among whites decreases the higher you go on the scales of income and education. But the controlling factor seems to be not economic distress but an inclination to see nonwhites as the cause of economic problems. The poorest voters were somewhat less likely to vote for Trump than those a rung or two above them on the economic ladder. The highest-income voters actually supported Trump less than they did Mitt Romney, who in 2012 won 54 percent of voters making more than $100,000—several points more than Trump secured, although he still fared better than Clinton. It was among voters in the middle, those whose economic circumstances were precarious but not bleak, where the benefits of Du Bois’s psychic wage appeared most in danger of being devalued, and where Trump’s message resonated most strongly. They surged toward the Republican column.
Yet when social scientists control for white voters’ racial attitudes—that is, whether those voters hold “racially resentful” views about blacks and immigrants—even the educational divide disappears. In other words, the relevant factor in support for Trump among white voters was not education, or even income, but the ideological frame with which they understood their challenges and misfortunes. It is also why voters of color—who suffered a genuine economic calamity in the decade before Trump’s election—were almost entirely immune to those same appeals.
During the aftermath of the Great Recession, the meager wealth of black and Latino families declined significantly compared with the wealth of white families. According to the Federal Reserve, “Median net worth fell about 30 percent for all groups during the Great Recession. However, for black and Hispanic families, net worth continued to fall an additional 20 percent in the 2010–13 period, while white families' net worth was essentially unchanged.” The predatory financial practices that fueled the housing bubble also targeted people of color— modernized versions of the very same racist plunder that caused the wealth gaps to begin with. But there was no corresponding radicalization of the black and Latino population, no mass election to Congress of ethno-nationalist demagogues promising vengeance on the perpetrators.
Those numbers also reveal a much more complicated story than a Trump base made up of struggling working-class Americans turning to Trump as a result of their personal financial difficulties, not their ideological convictions. An avalanche of stories poured forth from mainstream media outlets, all with the same basic thesis: Trump’s appeal was less about racism than it was about hardship—or, in the euphemism turned running joke, “economic anxiety.” Worse still, euphemisms such as “regular Americans,” typically employed by politicians to refer to white people, were now adopted by political reporters and writers wholesale: To be a regular or working-class American was to be white.
One early use of economic anxiety as an explanation for the Trump phenomenon came from NBC News’s Chuck Todd, in July 2015. “Trump and Sanders supporters are disenchanted with what they see as a broken system, fed up with political correctness and Washington dysfunction,” Todd said. “Economic anxiety is fueling both campaigns, but that’s where the similarities end.”
The idea that economic suffering could lead people to support either Trump or Sanders, two candidates with little in common, illustrates the salience of an ideological frame. Suffering alone doesn’t impel such choices; what does is how the causes of such hardship are understood.
Some Trump voters I spoke with were convinced, for example, that undocumented immigrants had access to a generous welfare state that was denied to everyone else. “You look at all these illegal immigrants coming in who are getting services that most Americans aren’t getting as far as insurance, welfare, Medicaid, all that jazz,” Richard Jenkins, a landscaper in North Carolina, told me. Steve, a Trump supporter who runs a floor-covering business in Virginia’s Tidewater area, told me that it “seems like people coming to this country, whether it’s illegally or through a legal system of immigration, are being treated better than American veterans.” If you believe that other people are getting the assistance you deserve, you are likely to oppose that assistance. But first you have to believe this.
The economic-anxiety argument retains a great deal of currency. As Mark Lilla, a Columbia professor, put it while defending the thesis of his book in an interview with Slate, “Marxists are much more on-point here. Their argument has always been that people become racist—and there are lots of reasons why they do, but the people who might be on the edge are drawn to racist rhetoric and anti-immigrant rhetoric because they’ve been economically disenfranchised, and so they look for a scapegoat, and so the real problems are economic. I think they’re closer to the truth right now than to think that somehow just some racist demon is directing everything in this country. It’s just not where the country is.”
Lilla’s argument falls apart at the slightest scrutiny: Wealth does not insulate one from racism, or the entire slaveholding planter class of the South could not have existed. Rather, racism and nationalism form an ideological lens through which to view suffering and misfortune. It is perhaps too much to expect that people who hope to use Marxist theory to absolve voters of racism cite those Marxist historians whose body of work engages precisely this topic.
In Black Reconstruction in America, W. E. B. Du Bois examined not only the acquiescence of Northern capital to Southern racial hegemony after the Civil War, but also white labor’s decision that preserving a privileged spot in the racial hierarchy was more attractive than standing in solidarity with black workers.
“North and South agreed that laborers must produce profit; the poor white and the Negro wanted to get the profit arising from the laborers’ toil and not to divide it with the employers and landowners,” Du Bois wrote. “When Northern and Southern employers agreed that profit was most important and the method of getting it second, the path to understanding was clear. When white laborers were convinced that the degradation of Negro labor was more fundamental than the uplift of white labor, the end was in sight.” In exchange, white laborers, “while they received a low wage, were compensated in part by a sort of public and psychological wage.” For centuries, capital’s most potent wedge against labor in America has been the belief that it is better to be poor than to be equal to niggers.
Overall, poor and working-class Americans did not support Trump; it was white Americans on all levels of the income spectrum who secured his victory. Clinton was only competitive with Trump among white people making more than $100,000, but the fact that their shares of the vote was nearly identical drives the point home: Economic suffering alone does not explain the rise of Trump. Nor does the Calamity Thesis explain why comparably situated black Americans, who are considerably more vulnerable than their white counterparts, remained so immune to Trump’s appeal. The answer cannot be that black Americans were suffering less than the white working class or the poor, but that Trump’s solutions did not appeal to people of color because they were premised on a national vision that excluded them as full citizens.
When you look at Trump’s strength among white Americans of all income categories, but his weakness among Americans struggling with poverty, the story of Trump looks less like a story of working-class revolt than a story of white backlash. And the stories of struggling white Trump supporters look less like the whole truth than a convenient narrative—one that obscures the racist nature of that backlash, instead casting it as a rebellion against an unfeeling establishment that somehow includes working-class and poor people who happen not to be white.
The nature of racism in America means that when the rich exploit everyone else, there is always an easier and more vulnerable target to punish. The Irish immigrants who in 1863 ignited a pogrom against black Americans in New York City to protest the draft resented a policy that offered the rich the chance to buy their way out; their response was nevertheless to purge black people from the city for a generation.
In 2006, during a televised fund-raiser for victims of Hurricane Katrina, Kanye West said President George W. Bush didn’t care about black people. NBC News’s Matt Lauer later asked Bush, “You say you told Laura at the time it was the worst moment of your presidency?”
“Yes,” Bush replied. “My record was strong, I felt, when it came to race relations and giving people a chance. And it was a disgusting moment.”
Bush singling out West’s criticism as the worst moment of his presidency may seem strange. But his visceral reaction to the implication that he was racist reflects a peculiarly white American cognitive dissonance—that most worry far more about being seen as racist than about the consequences of racism for their fellow citizens. That dissonance spans the ideological spectrum, resulting in blanket explanations for Trump that ignore the plainly obvious.
The explanation that Trump’s victory wasn’t an expression of support for racism because he got fewer votes than Romney, or because Clinton failed to generate sufficient Democratic enthusiasm, ignores the fact that Trump was a viable—even victorious—candidate while running racist primary- and general-election campaigns. Had his racism been disqualifying, his candidacy would have died in the primaries. Equally strange is the notion that because some white voters defected from Obama to Trump, racism could not have been a factor in the election; many of these voters did, in fact, hold racist views. Particularly during the 2008 campaign, Obama emphasized his uniqueness as an African American—his upbringing by his white grandparents, his elite pedigree, his public scoldings of black Americans for their cultural shortcomings. It takes little imagination at all to see how someone could hold racist views about black people in general and still have warm feelings toward Obama.
Perhaps the CNN pundit Chris Cillizza best encapsulated the mainstream-media consensus when he declared shortly after Election Day that there “is nothing more maddening—and counterproductive—to me than saying that Trump’s 59 million votes were all racist. Ridiculous.” Millions of people of color in the U.S. live a reality that many white Americans find unfathomable; the unfathomable is not the impossible.
Even before Election Day, that consensus was reflected in the reaction to Clinton’s most controversial remarks of the campaign. “You know, to just be grossly generalistic,” she said, “you could put half of Trump's supporters into what I call the basket of deplorables. Right? The racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamophobic—you name it.”
Rolling Stone’s Tim Dickinson, in a since-deleted tweet, observed, “Clinton is talking about trump supporters the way trump talks about mexicans,” whom Trump derided as rapists and criminals. Bloomberg’s John Heilemann said, “This comment kind of gets very close to the dictionary definition of bigoted.” The leftist writer Barbara Ehrenreich wrote on Facebook that Clinton was “an elitist snob who writes off about a quarter of the American electorate as pond scum.” As New York magazine’s Jesse Singal put it, “Not to be too cute but I have racist relatives. I'd like to think they aren't ‘deplorable’ humans.”
These reactions mirrored those of Trump voters. In Lancaster, Pennsylvania, a Trump supporter who gave his name as George acknowledged that “sometimes he says stuff he’s probably better off not saying, because the media’s gonna take everything he says and run with it.” He added, “Hillary can say the same thing, like deplorable, and they won’t talk about that much.”
Another Trump supporter in Lancaster, Beatrice, felt similarly about the “deplorables” remark. “Let’s face facts, calling half of your voter base ‘deplorables’—eh, that’s okay,” Beatrice said. “Trump says something and we have to hear about it again and again and again, and it’s complete bias.”
The defenses of Trump voters against Clinton’s charge share an aversion to acknowledging an unpleasant truth. They are not so much arguments against a proposition as arguments that the proposition is offensive—or, if you prefer, politically incorrect. The same is true of the rejoinder that Democrats cannot hope to win the votes of people they have condemned as racist. This is not a refutation of the point, but an argument against stating it so plainly.
The argument for the innocence of Trump’s backers finds purchase across ideological lines: white Democrats looking for votes from working-class whites, white Republicans who want to tar Democrats as elitists, white leftists who fear that identity politics stifles working-class solidarity, and white Trumpists seeking to weaponize white grievances. But the impetus here is not just ideological, but personal and commercial. No one wants to think of his family, friends, lovers, or colleagues as racist. And no one wants to alienate potential subscribers, listeners, viewers, or fans, either.
Yet nowhere did Clinton vow to use the power of the state to punish the constituencies voting for Trump, whose threats made his own rhetorical gestures toward pluralism risible. Clinton’s arrogance in referring to Trump supporters as “irredeemable” is the truly indefensible part of her statement—in the 2008 Democratic primary, Clinton herself ran as the candidate of “hard-working Americans, white Americans” against Obama, earning her the “exceedingly strange new respect” of conservatives who noted that she was running the “classic Republican race against her opponent.” Eight years later, she lost to an opponent whose mastery of those forces was simply greater than hers.
The reason many equated Clinton’s “deplorables” remark with Trump’s agenda of discriminatory state violence seems to be the widespread perception that racism is primarily an interpersonal matter—that is, it’s about name-calling or rudeness, rather than institutional and political power. This is a belief hardly limited to the president’s supporters, but crucial to their understanding of Trump as lacking personal prejudice. “One thing I like about Trump is he isn’t afraid to tell people what the problems in this country are,” said Ron Whitekettle from Lancaster. “Everything he says is true, but sometimes he doesn’t say it the way it should be said.”
Political correctness is a vague term, perhaps best defined by the conservative scholar Samuel Goldman. “What Trump and others seem to mean by political correctness is an extremely dramatic and rapidly changing set of discursive and social laws that, virtually overnight, people are expected to understand, to which they are expected to adhere.”
From a different vantage point, what Trump’s supporters refer to as political correctness is largely the result of marginalized communities gaining sufficient political power to project their prerogatives onto society at large. What a society finds offensive is not a function of fact or truth, but of power. It is why unpunished murders of black Americans by agents of the state draw less outrage than black football players’ kneeling for the National Anthem in protest against them. It is no coincidence that Trump himself frequently uses the term to belittle what he sees as unnecessary restrictions on state force.
But even as once-acceptable forms of bigotry have become unacceptable to express overtly, white Americans remain politically dominant enough to shape media coverage in a manner that minimizes obvious manifestations of prejudice, such as backing a racist candidate, as something else entirely. The most transgressive political statement of the 2016 election, the one that violated strict societal norms by stating an inconvenient fact that few wanted to acknowledge, the most politically incorrect, was made by the candidate who lost.
Even before Trump, the Republican Party was moving toward an exclusivist nationalism that defined American identity in racial and religious terms, despite some efforts from its leadership to steer it in another direction. George W. Bush signed the 2006 reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act, attempted to bring Latino voters into the party, and spoke in defense of American Muslims’ place in the national fabric. These efforts led to caustic backlashes from the Republican rank and file, who defeated his 2006 immigration-reform legislation, which might have shifted the demographics of the Republican Party for a generation or more. In the aftermath of their 2012 loss, Republican leaders tried again, only to meet with the same anti-immigrant backlash—one that would find an avatar in the person of the next Republican president.
In 2015, the political scientists Marisa Abrajano and Zoltan L. Hajnal published White Backlash, a study of political trends, and found that “whites who hold more negative views of immigrants have a greater tendency to support Republican candidates at the presidential, congressional, and gubernatorial levels, even after controlling for party identification and other major factors purported to drive the vote.”
While that finding may seem obvious, it isn’t simply a description of existing Republicans, but of the trends driving some white Democrats into the Republican Party. Using data from the American National Election Survey, Abrajano and Hajnal conclude that “changes in individual attitudes toward immigrants precede shifts in partisanship,” and that “immigration really is driving individual defections from the Democratic to Republican Party.”
Cautioning that there are limits to social science, Abrajano told me, “All other things being equal, we see that immigration has a strong and consistent effect in moving whites towards the Republican Party. I think having the first African American president elected into the office ... You can't disentangle immigration without talking about race as well, so that dynamic brought to the forefront immigration and racial politics more broadly, and the kind of fear and anxiety that many voters had about the changing demographics and characteristics of the U.S. population.” The Slate writer Jamelle Bouie made a similar observation in an insightful essay in March 2016.
Half a century after Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona rose to prominence by opposing civil-rights legislation designed to dismantle Jim Crow, the Republican Party’s shift toward nativism foreclosed another path not just to ethnic diversity, but to the moderation and tolerance that sharing power with those unlike you requires.
In the meantime, more than a decade of war nationalism directed at jihadist groups has shaped Republican attitudes toward Muslims—from seeing them as potential Republican voters in the late 1990s to viewing them as internal enemies currently. War nationalism always turns itself inward, but in the past, wars ended. Anti-Irish violence fell following the service of Irish American soldiers in the Civil War; Germans were integrated back into the body politic after World War II; and the Italians, Jews, and eastern Europeans who were targeted by the early 20th century’s great immigration scare would find themselves part of a state-sponsored project of assimilation by the war’s end. But the War on Terror is without end, and so that national consolidation has never occurred. Again, Trump is a manifestation of this trend rather than its impetus, a manifestation that began to rise not long after Obama’s candidacy.
“Birtherism was the beginning. It was a way of tying together his foreignness and his name, in an effort to delegitimize him, from the get-go,” says James Zogby, a Democrat whose Arab American Institute has spent years tracking public opinion about Muslim and Arab Americans. By 2012, the very idea of Muslims in public service “had become an issue in presidential politics, with five of the Republican candidates saying they wouldn't hire a Muslim or appoint one without special loyalty oaths.”
Obama, as the target and inspiration of this resurgent wave of Republican anti-Muslim hostility, was ill-equipped to stem the tide. “The problem was that when situations would occur, and people would say, ‘Why can't [Obama] speak out more forcefully,’ I would say that the people he needs to speak to see him as the problem,” Zogby argues. “It was the responsibility of Republicans to speak out, and they didn't. George Bush was forceful on the issue in the White House, even though he supported policies that fed it … There were no compelling voices on the Republican side to stop it, and so it just festered.”
That anti-Muslim surge on the right also provided a way for some conservatives to rationalize hostility toward Barack Obama by displacing feelings about his race in favor of the belief that he was secretly Muslim—a group about which conservatives felt much more comfortable expressing outright animus.
“In 2004 there's very little relationship between how you felt about the parties and how you felt about Muslims," Michael Tesler, a political scientist, told me. But “Obama really activates anti-Muslim attitudes along party lines.”
In 2012, according to Tesler’s numbers, only 13 percent of voters who believed Obama was Muslim said they would not vote for Obama because of his race. But 60 percent of those voters said they wouldn’t vote for him because of his religion—a frank admission of prejudice inseparable from their perception of Obama’s racial identity.
The scorched-earth Republican politics of the Obama era also helped block the path toward a more diverse, and therefore more tolerant, GOP. In his 2016 book, Post-Racial or Most-Racial?, Tesler found that Obama racialized white opinions about everything from health-care policy to Portuguese water dogs to his closest white associates, such as Joe Biden and Hillary Clinton. Tesler argued, “Barack Obama consistently widened racial divides, despite his best efforts to neutralize the political impact of race,” despite having “discussed race less in his first term than any other Democratic president since Franklin Roosevelt” and having “regularly downplayed accusations of race-based opposition to his presidency” during that time.
“Even after controlling for economic conservatism, moral traditionalism, religious beliefs and activity, and military support, racial attitudes became significantly stronger predictors of white partisanship in the Age of Obama,” Tesler wrote. The “spillover of racialization into mass assessments of public figures will probably make racial attitudes a more powerful determinant of Americans’ 2016 vote choices than they were in pre-Obama presidential elections.”
That was not a foregone conclusion. In other instances, whites’ fears that black political figures would give preferential treatment to black Americans had subsided as those black leaders took action in office. Despite Obama being “the least liberal president since World War II and the biggest moderate in the White House since Dwight Eisenhower,” however, the nature of the Republican opposition—attacking health-care reform as a “civil-rights bill,” and Obama as a foreign-born, terrorist-sympathizing interloper and freedom-destroying socialist—substantiated “any race-based anxieties about an Obama presidency destroying the country,” and prevented consciousness of Obama’s moderation from filtering to white voters, Tesler argued.
Instead, white voters became convinced that they had elected Huey Newton. There was effectively no opportunity for Obama to escape the racist caricature that had been painted of him, even though his challenge to America’s racial hierarchy was more symbolic than substantive. An agenda that included record deportations and targeted killings in Muslim countries abroad did little to stem the conspiracy theories.
“I think you can draw a straight line between Obama and heightened racialization, and the emergence of Trump,” Tesler told me. “Birtherism, the idea that Obama’s a Muslim, anti-Muslim sentiments—these are very strong components of Trump’s rise, and really what makes him popular with this crew in the first place.”
It’s not that Republicans would have been less opposed to Clinton had she become president, or that conservatives are inherently racist. The nature of the partisan opposition to Obama altered white Republicans’ perceptions of themselves and their country, of their social position, and of the religious and ethnic minorities whose growing political power led to Obama’s election.
Birtherism is rightly remembered as a racist conspiracy theory, born of an inability to accept the legitimacy of the first black president. But it is more than that, and the insistence that it was a fringe belief undersells the fact that it was one of the most important political developments of the past decade.
Birtherism is a synthesis of the prejudice toward blacks, immigrants, and Muslims that swelled on the right during the Obama era: Obama was not merely black but also a foreigner, not just black and foreign but also a secret Muslim. Birtherism was not simply racism, but nationalism—a statement of values and a definition of who belongs in America. By embracing the conspiracy theory of Obama’s faith and foreign birth, Trump was also endorsing a definition of being American that excluded the first black president. Birtherism, and then Trumpism, united all three rising strains of prejudice on the right in opposition to the man who had become the sum of their fears.
In this sense only, the Calamity Thesis is correct. The great cataclysm in white America that led to Donald Trump was the election of Barack Obama.
History has a way of altering villains so that we can no longer see ourselves in them.
As the vice president of the Confederacy, Alexander Stephens, in his 1861 “Cornerstone Speech,” articulated that the principle on which the Confederate States had been founded was the “great truth that the negro is not equal to the white man; that slavery, subordination to the superior race, is his natural and normal condition.” That principle was echoed by the declarations of secession from almost all of the Southern states.
Sitting in his cell at Fort Warren years later, the rebels defeated and the Confederacy vanquished, Stephens had second thoughts. He insisted in his diary, “The reporter's notes, which were very imperfect, were hastily corrected by me; and were published without further revision and with several glaring errors.” In fact, Stephens wrote, he didn’t like slavery at all.
“My own opinion of slavery, as often expressed, was that if the institution was not the best, or could not be made the best, for both races, looking to the advancement and progress of both, physically and morally, it ought to be abolished,” Stephens wrote. “Great improvements were, however, going on in the condition of blacks in the South … Much greater would have been made, I verily believe, but for outside agitation.”
Stephens had become first in line to the presidency of the Confederacy, an entity founded to defend white people’s right to own black people as chattel. But that didn’t mean he possessed any hostility toward black people, for whom he truly wanted only the best. The real problem was the crooked media, which had taken him out of context.
The same was true of the rest of the South, he wrote, which had no love for the institution of slavery. “They were ready to sacrifice property, life, everything, for the Cause, which was then simply the right of self-government,” Stephens insisted. “The slavery question had but little influence with the masses.” Again, the problem, as he saw it, was a media that deliberately lied about the cause of disunion. He singled out Horace Greeley, the founder of the New York Tribune, saying that Greeley’s description of the South as seeking to overthrow the Constitution in order to establish a “slave oligarchy” was “utterly unfounded.”
Stephens’s rewriting of his own views on race and slavery, the causes of the Civil War, and the founding principles of the Confederacy laid a different cornerstone. It served as a crucial text in the emerging alternate history of the Lost Cause, the mythology that the South had fought a principled battle for its own liberty and sovereignty and not, in President Ulysses S. Grant’s words, an ideal that was among “the worst for which a people ever fought.” The Lost Cause provided white Southerners—and white Americans in general—with a misunderstanding of the Civil War that allowed them to spare themselves the shame of their own history.
Stephens’s denial of what the Confederacy fought for—a purpose he himself had articulated for the eternity of human memory—is a manifestation of a delusion essential to nationalism in almost all of its American permutations: American history as glorious idealism unpolluted by base tribalism. If a man who helped lead a nation founded to preserve the right to own black people as slaves could believe this lie, it is folly to think that anyone who has done anything short of that would have difficulty doing the same.
James Baldwin wrote about this peculiar American delusion in 1964, arguing that the Founders of the United States had a “fatal flaw”: that “they could recognize a man when they saw one.” Because “they had already decided that they came here to establish a free country, the only way to justify the role this chattel was playing in one’s life was to say that he was not a man. For if he wasn’t a man, then no crime had been committed. That lie is the basis of our present trouble. It is an extremely complex lie.”
Most important, the overgrown branches of that complex lie have become manifest during nearly every surge in American nationalism, enabling its proponents to act with what they believe is a clear conscience. Just as Stephens implausibly denied that his dream of a society with African servitude as its cornerstone held malice toward black people, so too the Lost Cause myth allowed Northerners to look the other way as Southerners scuttled Reconstruction’s brief experiment with multiracial democracy and replaced it with a society rooted in white supremacy.
That Southern society, like the planter aristocracy that preceded it, impoverished most blacks and whites alike, while concentrating wealth and power in the hands of a white elite. It lasted for decades, through both violence and the acquiescence of those who might have been expected to rise up against it.
Americans tend to portray defenders of Jim Crow in cartoonish, Disney-villain terms. This creates a certain amount of distance, obscuring the reality that segregation enjoyed broad support among white people. As the historian Jason Sokol recounts in his book There Goes My Everything, white Southerners fighting integration imagined themselves not as adhering to an oppressive ideology, but as resisting one. “A certain notion of freedom crystallized among white southerners—and it had little to do with fascism overseas or equal rights. Many began to picture the American government as the fascist, and the white southerner as the victim,” Sokol writes.
One letter (out of many) cited by Sokol, from a World War II veteran in 1964, provides an illustrative example. “Six brothers in my family including myself fought in World War II for our rights and freedom,” a veteran from Charlotte, North Carolina, wrote to his representative. “Then why … am I being forced to use the same wash-room and restrooms with negro[e]s. I highly resent this … I’d be willing to fight and die for my rights, but can’t say this anymore for this country.”
Nor did many white Southerners accept that Jim Crow segregation was a fundamentally unjust arrangement. Sokol recalls Harris Wofford’s 1952 description of his time in Dallas County, Alabama, which a woman who ran the county’s chamber of commerce described as “a nigger heaven.”
“The niggers know their place and seem to keep in their place. They’re the friendly sort around here,” she explained. “If they are hungry, they will come and tell you, and there is not a person who wouldn’t feed and clothe a nigger.”
The formulation is surely familiar: She attested to her intimate and friendly interpersonal relationships with black people as a defense of a violent, kleptocratic system that denied them the same fundamental rights that she enjoyed. In fact, it was the subordinate position of black people that made peaceful relations possible.
Like Stephens, who later denied the essence of the Confederacy as he himself had articulated it, the most-ardent defenders of Jim Crow later denied that the system had been rooted in any kind of malice or injustice.
Four-time Alabama Democratic Governor George Wallace lost his first gubernatorial race when he ran as an economic populist against a candidate with a segregationist platform, and famously vowed never to be “outniggered again”—and he never was. He declared, “Segregation now, segregation forever!” as he took the oath of office in 1963. He stood in a schoolhouse’s door in Tuscaloosa to prevent black students from integrating it. He was responsible for the vicious beating of voting-rights activists in Selma.
By 1984, however, Wallace’s memory of his own actions, like Stephens’s, had changed. “It was not an antagonism towards black people, and that’s what some people can’t understand,” Wallace explained to a reporter from PBS for the documentary Eyes on the Prize. “White Southerners did not believe it was discrimination. They thought it was in the best interest of both the races.”
“I love black people. I love white people. I love yellow people,” Wallace said. “I’m a Christian and, therefore, I don’t have any ill feeling toward anybody because of the race, ’cause our black people are some of our finest citizens.”
In remarkable symmetry with Stephens’s defense of treason in defense of slavery, Wallace recalled his defense of racial apartheid as resistance to tyranny.
“I spoke vehemently against the federal government, not against people. I talked about the, the government of the, the United States and the Supreme Court. I never expressed in any language that would upset anyone about a person’s race. I talked about the Supreme Court usurpation of power. I talked about the big central government,” Wallace said. “Isn’t that what everybody talks about now? Isn’t that what Reagan got elected on? Isn’t that what all the legislators, electors, members of Congress, and the Senate and House both say?”
Trumpism emerged from a haze of delusion, denial, pride, and cruelty—not as a historical anomaly, but as a profoundly American phenomenon. This explains both how tens of millions of white Americans could pull the lever for a candidate running on a racist platform and justify doing so, and why a predominantly white political class would search so desperately for an alternative explanation for what it had just seen. To acknowledge the centrality of racial inequality to American democracy is to question its legitimacy—so it must be denied.
I don’t mean to suggest that Trump’s nationalism is impervious to politics. It is not invincible. Its earlier iterations have been defeated before, and can be defeated now. Abraham Lincoln began the Civil War believing that former slaves would have to be transported to West Africa. Lyndon Johnson began his political career as a segregationist. Both came to realize that the question of black rights in America is not mere identity politics—not a peripheral matter, but the central, existential question of the republic. Nothing is inevitable, people can change. No one is irredeemable. But recognition precedes enlightenment.
Nevertheless, a majority of white voters backed a candidate who assured them that they will never have to share this country with people of color as equals. That is the reality that all Americans will have to deal with, and one that most of the country has yet to confront.
Yet at its core, white nationalism has and always will be a hustle, a con, a fraud that cannot deliver the broad-based prosperity it promises, not even to most white people. Perhaps the most persuasive argument against Trumpist nationalism is not one its opponents can make in a way that his supporters will believe. But the failure of Trump’s promises to white America may yet show that both the fruit and the tree are poison.


Steve Bannon’s widely hyped war on the Republican establishment hit a setback Monday in Utah, when a prominent conservative he’d been courting to mount an insurgent Senate bid in the state announced he wouldn’t run.
Boyd Matheson—a prominent Utah Republican who heads the conservative Sutherland Institute think tank—met with Bannon during a recent trip to Washington, D.C., while exploring a potential bid for Orrin Hatch’s senate seat. When the meeting was first made public last month, many cited it as proof that Bannon’s pledge to overthrow entrenched Republican incumbents should be taken seriously. Matheson is well-regarded in Utah political circles, and was generally viewed as a credible candidate to take on Hatch in a primary. What’s more, it appeared he would have the backing of several influential conservative pressure groups.
“He is going to be the consensus conservative candidate among all the outside groups and will have a lot of the financial support that’s out there,” Citizens United president David Bossie told Politico at the time. “He’s going to be someone people coalesce around very quickly."
Orrin Hatch Tells Friends He Plans to Retire
But Utah’s political landscape has shifted meaningfully in recent weeks. As I reported recently, Hatch has been privately telling allies that he plans to retire at the end of his term. And if the veteran senator does decide not to run for reelection (Hatch’s office says he hasn’t made a final decision), Mitt Romney is planning to seek his seat.
Matheson told me he thinks it’s unlikely Bannon will be able to field another serious candidate in Utah. “I think this kind of clears the last of the path for Mitt,” he said.
That sentiment was echoed by other Utah politicos I heard from Monday. "If Mitt Romney enters the Senate race, it is hard to imagine any other candidate, hand picked by Bannon or otherwise, who could beat him,” said Jason Perry, director of the University of Utah’s Hinckley Institute of Politics. “Romney is political royalty in Utah and his brand of politics resonates with Utah voters.”
But even if Romney weren’t part of the conversation, Utah likely would have proven inhospitable terrain for Bannon’s project. For one thing, Bannon himself is not an especially popular figure in the state. During last year’s election, local media outlets seized on remarks he had made in 2012 criticizing Romney’s five sons for making time to serve as Mormon missionaries without having served in the military. Unlike in other red states—where outsider candidates welcome and even court Bannon’s support—Matheson’s ties to the former White House chief strategist were seen as an electoral liability.
Bannon’s ideological agenda and political style, meanwhile, are poorly suited to Utah’s electorate. Hard-edged nationalism is a tough sell in a state full of former missionaries who have spent significant time overseas. Populist rancor doesn’t have the same visceral appeal to a population with income inequality that’s lower than average and levels of education that are above average. And the kind of harsh rhetoric aimed at immigrants, Muslims, and refugees on display at the Bannon-led Breitbart News is decidedly out of step with the positions of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Utah does have an anti-establishment streak that Bannon could try to exploit. In 2010, for example, incumbent Senator Bob Bennett was defeated by Tea Party insurgent Mike Lee at the state’s Republican nominating convention. But recent changes to the state’s primary process have deemphasized the convention system that’s long empowered right-wing activists. And even in that crowd, the dominant ideology tends more toward social conservatism and small-government libertarianism than Bannon-style populism.
Indeed, Utahns have already shown their aversion to the particular kind of politics Bannon is pushing. During the Republican presidential primaries in 2016, Trump came in dead last in Utah. And while Trump ultimately carried the state in the general election, it was with a meager plurality of the vote. As Perry told me, “Bannon’s style, approach, and brand of politics has not resonated with Utah voters.”
It remains possible, of course, that Bannon could pluck a state lawmaker out of obscurity and fill his war chest with enough money to mount a credible campaign. But most Republicans in Utah aren’t holding their breath. In an interview with The Salt Lake Tribune last month, Utah’s Republican Party Chairman Rob Anderson called the notion that Bannon could swing the state’s Senate race “ridiculous.”
“Who does this guy think he is?,” Anderson said. “He doesn’t know Utah.”


A second woman accused Minnesota Senator Al Franken of sexual misconduct, saying he inappropriately touched her during a photo op in 2010. President Trump re-designated North Korea as a state sponsor of terrorism, after the country was removed from the list by the George W. Bush administration. The Trump administration plans to file a lawsuit to prevent the merger of AT&T and Time Warner, according to media reports. Janet Yellen announced that she will retire from the Federal Reserve after her successor is sworn in, rather than staying on as the federal reserve governor. And the Nebraska Public Service Commission approved a route through the state for the controversial Keystone XL pipeline.
Airball: In picking a fight with LaVar Ball, President Trump is once again conflating his personal role and his duties as president. (David A. Graham)
War on College: The House Republican tax plan is another example of how the GOP is willing to disadvantage college students. (Derek Thompson)
The GOP’s Unsustainable Corporate-Tax Plan: The Republican tax plan has no chance of standing the test of time, argues David Frum: While it may benefit a few, it’ll damage the long-term economic health of the country.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Intellect of a Kindergartner: National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster reportedly mocked President Trump’s intelligence at a private dinner, calling him an “idiot” and a “dope.” (Joseph Bernstein, BuzzFeed)
Show Her the Money: The country’s reaction to a photo of Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin’s wife, Louise Linton, posing with a large sheet of dollar bills, exemplifies the “stultification and celebritization of our politics.” (Kevin D. Williamson, National Review)
When Ideology Trumps Transgression: Conservative evangelical leaders have changed their tune on the issue of sexual misconduct in the last few decades. Here’s why. (Astead W. Herndon, The Boston Globe)
The Minnesota Flip: With the latest allegations surfacing against Senator Al Franken, the potential for the traditionally Democratic state to go red in upcoming elections has never looked greater. (Josh Kraushaar, National Journal)
The Non-Story: The story of Doug Jones’s unlikely advantage over Roy Moore in the Alabama Senate Race has been relegated to the background—and Jones seems happy to keep it that way. (Alexis Levinson, BuzzFeed)
Rand Slam: Why was Senator Rand Paul attacked by a neighbor in his own yard? Ben Schreckinger went to Kentucky to investigate. (GQ)
Testing, Testing: In response to the growing nuclear threat from North Korea, the U.S. is experimenting with strengthening its defense systems. Here’s what those systems look like. (David E. Sanger and William J. Broad, The New York Times)
In this story, The Atlantic’s Derek Thompson writes that through its economic policies, the Republican Party seems to be waging a war on higher education. Do you think that’s the case? Why or why not?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Wednesday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey), Lena Felton (@lenakfelton), and Taylor Hosking (@Taylor__Hosking)


This week is a time for being thankful, and the president has both instructions for others and his own thanks to give. Whatever difficulties special counsel Robert Mueller is causing the White House, administration staffers were reportedly relieved that former National-Security Adviser Michael Flynn has thus far escaped indictment. Furthermore, Trump attorney Ty Cobb believes the investigation is nearly complete.
Only Mueller's Team Knows What It's Actually Doing
“It is my hope and expectation that shortly after Thanksgiving, all the White House interviews will be concluded,” Cobb told CNN, and The Washington Post reports that he’s telling West Wing staffers that the investigation overall will conclude soon, exonerating President Trump.
That’s a long way from the conventional wisdom, especially since the indictments of Paul Manafort and Rick Gates and guilty plea from George Papadopoulos late last month. Each of those looked like a bad sign for the Trump administration: the first two because they suggested Mueller was trying to flip Manafort, and was carefully delving into financial crimes, and the second because Papadopoulos’s admissions, alongside testimony from Carter Page, further confirm that at least some members of the Trump campaign were indeed colluding with the Russian government.
But Cobb’s view is rather different. According to the Post, his interpretation has convinced some White House staffers, as well as, crucially, the president. Where does he get his optimistic take, and could he be right?
First, and most importantly, no one knows. The Mueller investigation is, as I have noted, a black box that invites but seldom confirms widespread speculation. Each step and non-step is hotly analyzed, but Mueller himself and his aides have been extremely tight with information. (Papadopoulos, for example, was arrested in July and pleaded guilty in early October, but no one knew about it until it was unsealed on October 30.)
That said, perhaps Cobb knows something that everyone else (excepting the Mueller team) doesn’t. He is, after all, better positioned than most people. Besides, the investigation is already moving faster than many observers predicted, and interviews with high-ranking officials often come toward the end of a process. Indeed, CNN says Mueller is getting ready to interview top White House aides. Cobb also told the Post that Trump aides who have already spoken to investigators have come away feeling good.
Certainly, the general antipathy to the Trump administration in many elite sectors, including the press, the legal establishment, and career government workers, is likely to mean that in the absence of reliable information from inside the Mueller probe, the people commenting on and reporting on the investigation will interpret new developments in ways that are unfavorable to the president. The possibility that Trump himself, and maybe also family members like Donald Trump Jr. and Jared Kushner, might escape the probe unscathed seems underpriced in the public discussion.
That said, there are reasons to doubt Cobb’s rosy perspective. The Post writes, “People close to the investigation, however, say a tidy and quick conclusion is unlikely, and would defy the pattern of most special counsel investigations in recent history.” In addition, outside legal experts say that despite Mueller’s speed so far, there’s little reason to think he’s close to wrapping up. Mueller has built a large team of high-flying lawyers, said Bruce Green, a professor at Fordham University’s School of Law who worked on the Iran-Contra investigation, and it’s hard to imagine he would have gathered that firepower and that they would have left their jobs if they didn’t expect a longer investigation with greater fireworks that what has come so far.
The aggressive approach to Manafort, including an unusual indictment under the Foreign Agent Registration Act, suggests that Mueller’s team hopes to either flip Manafort or make an example of him. A quick conclusion would be a surprise because of the figures who are so far apparently untouched by the investigation. Flynn, for example, appears to be just as vulnerable to FARA prosecution as Manafort. (“Witnesses questioned by Mueller’s team warn that investigators are asking about other foreign contacts and meetings that have not yet become public, and to expect a series of new revelations,” the Post reports, with questions focusing in particular on Flynn.) Trump Jr. and Kushner have a maze of Russian contacts that remain various degrees of unexplored—from the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting to Trump Jr.’s DMs with Wikileaks to Kushner’s post-election contacts with then-Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and the state-owned Vnesheconombank.
Some recent stories suggest Mueller is only expanding his reach, rather than tying things together ahead of a neat conclusion. The Wall Street Journal reported last week that Mueller in mid-October requested Russia-related documents from a range of Trump campaign officials.
Trump himself could still be in the hot seat, too. ABC News reports that Mueller has requested a wide range of documents from the Justice Department related to Trump’s firing of FBI Director James Comey. That move suggests continued interest not just in aides, but also in whether the president might have obstructed justice in his dealings with Comey. Cobb told the Post he thought the new matters would not “unduly extend the inquiry.”
It’s possible, though, that Cobb is simply wrong. He previously said that he expected Mueller to be done by Thanksgiving. He’s also sometimes a bit unaware—such as when he loudly complained about the White House counsel in earshot of a New York Times reporter at a popular D.C. eatery.
There’s a third possibility: Cobb doesn’t have a much better sense of where things are going than anyone else who’s not on Mueller’s team. He has seen that Trump is impatient and sometimes bad-tempered with lawyers; Marc Kasowitz, who preceded Cobb, was moved aside when he appeared ineffectual. Cobb might reason that it’s important to keep Trump calm, both for his own sake and for Trump’s. A fidgety Trump might make the rash decision to fire Mueller, placing himself in much greater jeopardy than he is already, just as his decision to fire Comey in what appears to have been a fit of pique over the FBI’s Russia investigation led to Mueller’s appointment. If Cobb’s words are able to soothe Trump’s nerves for the time being, that’s one more thing each of them can be thankful for.


On one side is a divisive, hot-tempered patriarch with three prominent children; he’s gotten where he is in large part thanks to winning a genetic lottery. A consummate salesman, verging toward snake-oil levels, he sells products at a markup thanks to the name they bear. After years of ups and downs, the last 18 months have seen him finally reach the pinnacle of success, along with a generous dollop of hatred.
On the other is LaVar Ball.
From the moment that LiAngelo Ball—UCLA basketball player, son of LaVar, and brother of NBA rookie Lonzo—was arrested in China for shoplifting from a Louis Vuitton store in Hangzhou, a collision between LaVar Ball and Donald Trump, two of the most outrageous, larger-than-life, and controversial figures in the contemporary United States, neither of whom can ever just let anything go, seemed inevitable. Now it’s erupting just in time for Thanksgiving break, ensuring that neither sports nor politics is safe family-conversation material, and again showing how Trump conflates himself and the American state.
With Trump visiting China at the same time, he procured the release of the three UCLA basketball players who had been detained for shoplifting, including Ball. He then promptly demanded a public display of gratitude:
Do you think the three UCLA Basketball Players will say thank you President Trump? They were headed for 10 years in jail!
They did thank the president. Then he called for more thanks:
To the three UCLA basketball players I say: You're welcome, go out and give a big Thank You to President Xi Jinping of China who made.....
That was enough for LaVar Ball.
When ESPN asked him Friday about Trump’s role, he replied, “Who? What was he over there for? Don't tell me nothing. Everybody wants to make it seem like he helped me out.”
Sunday evening, the president took advantage of his newly bestowed 280-character limit for a riposte:
Shoplifting is a very big deal in China, as it should be (5-10 years in jail), but not to father LaVar. Should have gotten his son out during my next trip to China instead. China told them why they were released. Very ungrateful!
That’s a lot to unpack.
First, it’s another classic example of Trump picking a fight with black athletes or public figures. As with his occasional battles with NFL and NBA players, the president has evidently calculated that attacking prominent black figures is good for buttressing support with his base. (Indeed, Monday morning he also jabbed at Raiders running back Marshawn Lynch; you would think their shared hatred of press conferences would bring the two men together.)
Second, there’s something strange about the idea that five to 10 years is an appropriate punishment for shoplifting.
Finally, there’s Trump’s overall handling of the matter, which demonstrates once again the ways in which he conflates his own role as the American head of state with the government itself, personalizing all presidential actions in an unusual way.
Though his tweet demanding it was gauche, Trump was not wrong to want thanks for helping get the men free. By all accounts they made a serious error of judgment, and should be thankful for being released without further consequences. But let’s not overstate the effort involved. New York Times managing editor Joe Kahn, a former longtime China correspondent, pointed out that the government was probably eager to ship the men out:
China may have an ugly record on criminal justice, but it rarely incarcerates foreigners, and certainly wouldn't want U.C.L.A. basketball stars in Chinese prison. Hard to imagine a less taxing gift to a U.S. president. https://t.co/OJKURkQwlA
Moreover, freeing Americans locked up overseas—both those who are wrongly imprisoned and those who have done something stupid—is a basic function of the American government. Sometimes that just means an ambassador making a phone call; sometimes it means sending Bill Clinton or even Dennis Rodman as an envoy.
Ari Fleischer, the former George W. Bush White House spokesman, argued Trump was being arch in his comments.
“This tweet is a perfect example of Trump critics taking him literally but not seriously,” Fleischer tweeted. “LaVar Ball was ungrateful to the man who saved his son from Chinese prison. Did Trump really mean he'd leave them in prison? I doubt it. Was LaVar ungrateful? Yes.”
Fleischer is almost certainly right that Trump wouldn’t have left the men in jail. His neediness for praise is notable in its own right, though. He insists that he be personally and lavishly thanked for carrying out his responsibilities as president.
Time and again, Trump has blurred the lines between his own personage and his duty as president. This was made manifest in the firing of James Comey. In sworn testimony, Comey said Trump requested loyalty to himself, a demand that made the then-FBI director uncomfortable. After Comey’s firing, Kellyanne Conway said the president “expects people who are serving in his administration to be loyal to the country and to be loyal to the administration.” My colleague Peter Beinart added, “He sees no distinction between the two.”
When Puerto Ricans complained about slow and inadequate response to Hurricane Maria, Trump took any criticism of the federal government as an attack on him, personally. When pressed about the lack of appointments to upper-mid-level executive branch jobs, Trump responded that “the one that matters is me. I’m the only one that matters, because when it comes to it, that’s what the policy is going to be.”
He’s doing the same thing with the basketball players. Even discounting for bluster, it’s strange for the president to be joking about leaving Americans in overseas jails, and strange for him to seem so personally invested in the case. Even worse, since neither Trump nor LaVar Ball habitually pass up opportunities to grab headlines, the nation is probably in for several more days or weeks of this.


America badly needs corporate tax reform.
The United States pretends to tax corporations heavily. But those heavy tax rates are perforated by randomly generous rules such that many tax-efficient firms pay nothing at all, or even receive money back from the U.S. Treasury. The result is heavy unfairness between industries and firms, an unfairness that many economists believe systematically distorts investment decisions. U.S. productivity growth has been sluggish since the Great Recession—and had actually turned negative by the beginning of 2016.
At the same time, the corporate share of the federal-tax burden has dwindled over the years and decades. More and more of the cost of government now falls upon the payroll tax, which weighs most heavily on low- and middle-income wage earners. These Americans are suffering stagnating incomes, very probably because of the poor productivity growth of the past half-decade.
Lowering the corporate rate while tightening collection—with a view to raising more revenue in a more rational way—has been a good government cause since the late 1980s. John Kerry campaigned on it during his presidential run, in 2004, as NBC News reported at the time:
“Some may be surprised to hear a Democrat calling for lower corporate tax rates,” Kerry told an audience at Wayne State University [in Michigan]. “The fact is, I don’t care about the old debates. I care about getting the job done and creating jobs here in the United States of America.”
Now, in 2017, the all-Republican federal government at last has a chance to make progress on this goal. And it is throwing that opportunity away.
As I write on November 19, it may seem like the GOP tax plans are carrying all before them. A big tax cut has passed the House. A somewhat different plan passed late Thursday night through the Senate Finance Committee. The president is bellowing on Twitter his readiness to sign almost anything that arrives on his desk.
But what is heading toward him is not the kind of reform that can command broad political support, and thus stand the test of possible electoral defeat in 2018 and 2020. It’s a scandalous expression of upper-class and Sunbelt chauvinism that will melt away within weeks of the next Democratic electoral success. Even if the plan becomes law, as still seems improbable in the face of its terrible poll numbers, what firm would venture a long-term investment based on tax changes so likely unsustainable?
The Rebirth of America's Pro-Natalist Movement
Daniel Patrick Moynihan’s old rule of thumb for bills before the Senate—“They pass 70–30, or they fail”—no longer applies. Seventy-vote majorities no longer exist in this hyperpartisan era. The Affordable Care Act passed with only 60 votes. But the spirit of the rule lingers. By refusing to hold hearings and forestalling Congressional Budget Office scoring, Republicans have moved fast. But they have not convinced the public mind to recycle an antique but still meaningful phrase. They may win a vote. They have not won the argument. What they are doing will not last, and will therefore not deliver any of the promised benefits. Their strategy is the equivalent of a 1980s-style corporate raid, which will yield a hasty and morally dubious windfall for a few insiders while damaging the longer-term economic health of the larger enterprise.
Corporate tax reform is an argument that conservatives and Republicans could and should win. Among the advanced economies, only France—at 34.41 percent—imposes rates even close to the statutory U.S. rate, which including state-level taxes averages 38.91 percent.  Nations that are members of the Organization for Economic Development and Cooperation, by the same metric, average 24.18 percent; European states, 18.35 percent.
Of course, only the worst-managed or unluckiest American companies actually pay that 38.91 percent. In the 1950s, a third of federal revenues were derived from the corporate income tax. In the mid-1960s, the corporate tax still yielded more revenue than the payroll tax. But since then, revenue collections from the corporate tax have tumbled steeply relative to other tax sources. Today the federal government collects only about 10 percent from the corporate income tax. The payroll tax contributes almost three times as much.
In the 1960s, the ratio of federal collections between individual and corporate income taxes was about 2 to 1. Since the Great Recession and the lapse of the Bush tax cuts, this ratio has approximated 5 to 1.
The paradox of high rates and low yields is explained by the rational lobbying strategy of corporate firms. Business in general would benefit from lower rates. But from the perspective of any individual firm, the highest return on lobbying investment is earned by seeking special favors of value to that particular company or industry. A decade-long effort to reform corporate taxation might reduce the nominal rate to 25 percent. A shrewdly negotiated special favor can cut a company’s tax obligation to zero overnight.
From the point of view of future U.S. growth and prosperity, the broad outline of tax reform seems obvious. Lower corporate rates to somewhere between 25 and 30 percent, the developed-world norm. Tighten collection so that the rate is actually paid. This is one reform that should come near to paying for itself, since collections from the present loopholed system have shrunk to such relatively low levels. Make up any difference by raising other, underperforming taxes, especially excise taxes; while collections from the individual income tax have doubled since 1997, receipts from the federal excise tax on alcohol have risen only by one-third over the same period.
Those are changes that could command broad assent. The present Republican plan to use the manifest need for corporate tax reform to shift the burden of the individual income tax from the wealthiest to middle-income families in blue states will not.
Congressional Republicans well appreciate the unpopularity of what they are doing. That’s why they are short-circuiting the traditional legislative process, bypassing hearings and other opportunities for public comment. The more the public knows, the more jeopardized their plan becomes. Since the Great Recession, the GOP has grown both more extreme in its goals and more radical in its methods. Apocalyptically pessimistic in its view of America’s future, it seems determined to seize for its donors and core constituencies as much as it can, as fast as it can, as ruthlessly as it can. It will then take advantage of the U.S. political system’s notorious antimajoritarian bias in favor of the status quo to defend the grab over the coming years and decades. Repeal and replace failed. The new slogan is: Rush, grab, entrench, and defend.
Despair is always a bad counselor. This hubris and haste will not deliver the results that U.S. businesses want and that the American public should expect. A normal Republican president would say so. A normal Republican president would enlarge the narrow views of his congressional party—if only to win a second term for himself, but ideally because presidents by their job definition are compelled to think of the wider interests of the nation. But President Trump, elevated by the Electoral College on the basis of a Michael Dukakis–size share of the popular vote, is not only the least public-spirited president in U.S. history, but also the most ignorant and shortsighted. He struck an implicit deal with the congressional Republicans during the campaign of 2016: If they would shield his wrongdoing, he would sign their bills. It’s the one of the rare commitments in his lifetime on which he has not (yet) reneged.
An opportunity to achieve a sensible improvement by broad consensus is being flung away in favor of accumulating special favors for “special” people. If it succeeds, it will not last. And it probably will not succeed. The differences between the House and the Senate are real; settling them will take time.
Some Republicans may reason, as Paul Krugman tweeted on Thursday, “You might think that growing evidence that 2018 will be a Dem wave would make some Rs break ranks. But here’s the thing: Probably many of those Rs figure that they’ll be wiped out regardless … So if you’re, say, a GOP Congressman from a well-educated, affluent CA district, you might look at VA results and say, ‘Well, by 2019 I’ll be outta here and working as a lobbyist on K Street.’ So keeping the big money happy is what matters.” Not all will think thus, however, and certainly not all will arrive at Krugman’s conclusion equally fast. Vestigial instincts of self-preservation among Republican members of Congress will slow the legislative timetable against the unforgiving clock. It’s very possible, too, that in the face of negative polling, Trump may panic and go back on it, sabotaging the entire project. It’s quite possible that the only legacy of the great tax reform push of 2017 will be raw material for devastating Democratic attack ads in 2018.
It didn’t have to be this way. It should not be this way.
A rationally conservative party of business and enterprise could, and should, have written a corporate tax-reform bill that is compelling on the merits. The slowdown of U.S. productivity growth would be the country’s leading problem if U.S. constitutional democracy were not being attacked from the White House at the same time. The GOP submitted to Trump in 2016 very largely to reach this moment. The ironic outcome is that his success that year doomed the very prize for which his party sold its soul.


Some Republican senators, including Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, have suggested that if Alabamians elect Roy Moore to the chamber in the special election, they’ll expel him. This promise from the GOP might be the best way that leadership can signal to Republican voters that they can vote for Moore despite the multiple allegations of sexual misconduct against him. If he is elected, they will handle the problem.
How Alabama's Election Laws Keep Moore on the Ballot
But the chances of McConnell and his colleagues following through on this threat are extremely small. Historically, the House and Senate have been very reluctant to deploy their most punitive power.
Under the Constitution (Article I, Section 5) the House and Senate each have the authority to punish their members for “disorderly behavior.”  Under the rules Congress has adopted, each chamber has three options for dealing with problematic colleagues. The House and Senate can censure or reprimand a member by a majority vote. This, the least of the possible acts of punishment, is a formal condemnation that still allows the person to remain in office. The House and Senate can also each exclude someone by a majority vote, which prevents an elected member from taking their seat because they lack the technical credentials. Finally, the most severe punishment available to the House and Senate is to expel a seated member for improper behavior, which requires the consent of two-thirds of the membership.
Both chambers have been willing to exercise the least drastic power without much hesitation. During the 19th century, there were numerous censures in the House of Representatives when decorum broke down—ranging from physical acts of violence to unruly language. William Stanberry was censured in 1832 for insulting the speaker; Lovell Rousseau was censured in 1866 for assaulting a member. The Senate famously censured Joseph McCarthy in 1954. Democratic Senator Thomas Dodd was censured in 1967 for having used campaign funds for his own personal benefit. In 1979, Georgia’s Herman Talmadge had to face the badge of shame as a result of his misconduct using campaign monies. In 1979, the House censured Michigan Representative Charles Diggs, who had to stand in the well as Speaker Tip O’Neill rebuked him, when he was convicted for payroll fraud and kickbacks. Representatives Dan Crane and Gerry Studds were censured for improper sexual relations with pages in 1983. More recently, the House reprimanded South Carolina Representative Joe Wilson after he shouted “You lie” at former President Obama while he addressed Congress.
The other form of congressional punishment against a member that only requires a majority vote is exclusion. In 1929, the Senate excluded William Vare from taking his seat as a result of allegations of election fraud. The most famous example of exclusion, however, took place when the House voted to exclude New York Representative Adam Clayton Powell from his seat in 1967, a case that actually ended up reducing the interest of either chamber in ever doing it again.
Powell’s Achilles heel was that he lived a flamboyant life, using public money to pay for exotic trips with his many female companions and putting family members on the payroll. Southern conservatives used this against him (though they found support from a few liberals like Sam Gibbons of Florida). His supporters warned that Southerners were leading this drive against him because he was black and a strong proponent of civil rights. They pointed to the fact that many of his accusers were just as bad, if not much worse, in their personal and professional behavior.
On March 1, 1967, the House voted to exclude Powell by a vote of 307 to 116. Powell’s constituents, 89 percent of whom were African American, were outraged. They flooded the streets of Harlem to protest, arguing that they had been disenfranchised by Southern racists. On November 1968, they reelected him and the House voted to seat him in January 1969. Five months later, the Supreme Court ruled that the House had misused its power since he filled all the technical requirements to fill a seat. Chief Justice Earl Warren stated: “A fundamental principle of our representative democracy is, in Hamilton’s words, that ‘the people should choose whom they please to govern them.’”
Expulsion, the virtual equivalent of impeachment, is the boldest action that Congress can take, and what Senate Republicans promise will be on the table if Moore is victorious. Yet history shows that, in contrast to censure, this has been a power rarely used.
The biggest burst of expulsions in both chambers took place around the time of the Civil War when support for secession and the Confederacy were deemed intolerable. Bribery has also been a stimulant to action. In October 1980, the House expelled Pennsylvania Representative Michael Myers, who had been convicted of bribery as part of the ABSCAM scandal, when members were caught on tape taking bribes from FBI agents dressed as Arab sheiks. And in July 2002, the House expelled the eccentric James Traficant of Ohio, who had been convicted for racketeering, bribery, and tax evasion. The last time a senator was expelled was in 1862.
The other cases of expulsion remain “might-have-beens” since members resigned before colleagues had to vote on a course of action. In 1862, for example, Rhode Island Senator James Simmons resigned when it looked like he would be expelled as a result of corruption charges. Oregon Senator Robert Packwood resigned in 1995 following allegations of sexual harassment. New Jersey Senator Harrison Williams, who had also been caught up in the ABSCAM sting, stepped down under the threat of expulsion. Nevada Senator John Ensign resigned in 2011 as the ethics committee was investigating financial wrongdoing involving an affair with a staffer. When House Speaker Jim Wright faced an unfavorable ethics committee report in 1989, based on an investigation driven by the hyper-partisan Newt Gingrich, he resigned from Congress rather than allowing the process to go forward.
The pressures against expulsion will remain just as strong today as in the past. Republicans will likely be concerned about pushback from Alabama voters if they decide to elect Moore. Moore, for his part, is attempting to provide himself some insurance by portraying this as a campaign by the corrupt establishment to take him out of the race. It’s also possible that senators will be leery about expelling Moore, given sexual-misconduct allegations against other members in Congress. Partisanship might shape their response too, as Republicans look to move forward agenda items like health care and tax policy.
Of course, expelling Moore would not really solve the problem that has been front and center in the national dialogue for months now. The real question is whether a male-dominated institution that has a sordid history of skirt-chasing and workplace harassment finally changes its ways. Even after Anita Hill’s shocking testimony during Clarence Thomas’s confirmation hearings in 1991, when senators in both parties seemed to dismiss the issues at hand, Congress remained a government body that looked too much like the Wild West when it came to how men treated women. Kicking out one member won’t solve the bigger problem of the culture and lack of rules that govern Capitol Hill with regards to sexual relations.
The question America now faces is whether it has reached a moment of reckoning, when institutions such as Congress finally take seriously the problem of sexual harassment and assault, or whether this becomes another Anita Hill moment when the sound and fury quickly fade, and the status quo prevails.


Jake Tapper sometimes wakes up angry. This may be a good thing for America.
Amid the chaos of the Donald Trump presidency, and the deep partisanship that filters through seemingly all aspects of American life in 2017, Tapper is motivated by the same forces that have animated much of his career in journalism. He can’t stand hypocrisy. He can’t stand unfairness. He can’t stop talking about it.
“I recognize that it’s probably a pain in the ass for a lot of people now,” he told The Atlantic. “But it is just who I am.”
“I’m just like, I don’t want any of this to be happening,” he added. “There are so many lies and so much indecency, and I’m not only talking about President Trump. There is just a world of it exploding—and we are, I fear, as a nation, becoming conditioned and accepting of it. And it’s horrific.”
Tapper, who is writing a novel about America in 1954, says he sees an echo of that era in today’s political climate. Despite the many unprecedented aspects of the Trump presidency, Tapper argues, the nation has grappled with the same kind of turmoil, the same unseemliness, the same level of uncertainty that’s playing out now. “There was this before,” he says. “It was McCarthyism. It was incredibly indecent. It was full of lies and a lot of people should have known better and did not stand against it. There was a very powerful person, and everybody was worried about alienating his supporters.”
Here’s a condensed and lightly edited transcript of Tapper’s conversation with The Atlantic’s editor in chief, Jeffrey Goldberg, recorded for the second episode of The Atlantic Interview podcast.

Jeffrey Goldberg: You’ve become very, very famous.
Jake Tapper: I don’t know that that’s true.
Goldberg: You were in GQ magazine!
Tapper: It was a very nice story, and I thought it captured something that I've been feeling a lot—which is that I spent eight years being attacked by the Obama administration and Obama fans, and now a lot of them are acting as if I’m some other person.
Goldberg: I don’t think you went into journalism to become famous.
Tapper: No.
Goldberg: Why did you become a journalist?
Tapper: I wanted to be a cartoonist, and then I wanted to go into film—not as an actor, but as a writer-director—and then I found myself during film school at the University of Southern California listening to the Clarence Thomas hearings in class on my Walkman, and I realized L.A. was not really for me.
I just started submitting any freelance story anywhere I could. I wrote a piece about a guy in his early twenties living in his grandmother’s pool house running a smut empire. He was making lots of money, living with these two strippers, and he was trying to get into porn—and this was all taking place in College Park, Maryland. I wrote this for the Washington Post Style section and they got back to me and saying they couldn’t print a word of it. So I went to City Paper with it. And that was my introduction to City Paper.
Goldberg: Was that your introduction to David Carr?
Tapper: To David Carr, to Erik Wemple, to the whole team.
Goldberg: Tell me a little bit about what David Carr did for you.
Tapper: Well, he made me a journalist. And he convinced me to leave [public relations], and come work for him.
Goldberg: I can’t picture you in PR.
Tapper: I was so awful at it. I was the worst.
Goldberg: What made you bad at it?
Tapper: Well I’m not a particularly good liar.
Goldberg: Humble brag.
Tapper: Kind of.
Goldberg: Tell me two things that you learned from David Carr. Two general rules.
Tapper: Every mistake is important, and you should avoid them at all costs. I remember the first time I made a mistake in print. I was writing a piece about the Humane Society and some people who were foster-cat people saying that the Humane Society was too eager to kill off cats and dogs. And I mixed up quotes of two women that had the same first name, I think. He was not happy at all.
Goldberg: What did he say to you?
Tapper: I just was kind of glib about it.
Goldberg: That’s bad.
Tapper: Yeah, because it wasn’t an editing error. It was a reporting error. I mean, I still hear it. Every time I make a mistake or somebody who works for me makes a mistake I hear that voice. So that was one. And, two, cliches. He hated cliches so much.
Goldberg: Television journalism is built on cliches.
Tapper: There are a lot of good writers in TV! Yeah, I mean, look, first of all, let me just also say, 24 hours of live television is not easy. And people end up saying cliches because they’ve been talking for so long. I’m sure I use them all the time. You know, we have banned phrases on my show: “Popping the champagne,” “measuring the drapes.”
Goldberg: Do you keep a list?
Tapper: Those are the only two on my list right now.
Goldberg: What about the word eatery?
Tapper: I like eatery. What’s wrong with eatery?
Goldberg: Eatery is one of the worst words. There’s another word for eatery. You know what it is? Restaurant.
Tapper: Yeah, but what if you have to say a restaurant five times? You wouldn't put the word “restaurant” five times in a paragraph.
Goldberg: Then write harder. A question I always have for people who jump from writing to TV is why? Because no matter how long a story is on television you just can’t tell as much of that story as you can in print. You have pictures, which is amazing.
Tapper: Print and television journalism are very different, and it’s not like one is better than the other. I mean, look, I interviewed [the Secretary of State Rex] Tillerson the other day and I think that, as live television journalism, it was effective for what it was. How does it compare to a print interview with Tillerson? Well, a print interview with Tillerson, you would do differently. It wouldn’t just be a transcript. You would weave in context and analysis.

One of the things that I decided to do in that interview was—we talked about Russia, and we talked about North Korea, and we talked about the Iran deal—but obviously I was going to also ask about the moron thing, and I knew he was going to not answer the question. So one of the things I did was explain [in the interview] why I was asking.
Goldberg: Talk about something else related to your interview style. I don’t mean this literally, but you don’t blink. I’m thinking about your most famous Kellyanne [Conway] interview.
Tapper: Twenty-seven [minutes] without commercials.
Goldberg: Twenty-seven minutes! It’s the combination of being able to sit still and bear down on it, and also there is this thing—and I’m admitting something about myself that I don’t like which is—when somebody is squirming, sometimes I turn away from it even though my job is to get them to squirm because they're lying to me.
Tapper: The natural human impulse is to avoid conflict. Sometimes when President Trump tweets something, or like today—today was such a weird morning. Okay. I wake up. I’m already kind of upset because President Trump said that other presidents including President Obama didn’t call the families of [service members killed in action]. That bothers me a lot because I cover the veterans so often, and I know veterans that President Bush spoke to, visited, hugged. Same with President Obama.
Goldberg: So you woke up angry. How soon after you actually wake up do you look at your Twitter feed?
Tapper: It’s on the way to the bathroom. I’ve made an improvement in that I now look at my e-mail first. But, so, that bothered me. I’m not worried about President Obama or President Bush’s feelings. But I know these Gold Star families. And I know that they remain—a lot of them—incredibly vulnerable, incredibly upset, and understandably so. So that just really bothered me. Within the course of an hour, the Scaramucci Post—which is, the whatever the heck it is, the web site or Twitter feed of the former White House communications director—is engaging in Holocaust denial. And then! Some nitwit on Twitter was comparing John McCain to Bowe Bergdahl, who just pleaded guilty to desertion. You know, President Obama loved John McCain and Bowe Bergdahl, and this is why I love Donald Trump—something like that. And Donald Trump Jr. liked it.
And I’m just like, I don’t want any of this to be happening. That’s my feeling about this. I would rather have woken up and none of that happened. It bothers me. It’s indecent. So I would prefer to not be so agitated. I would prefer this stuff to not be going on.
Goldberg: You’re maybe at your best when you’re a little bit peeved. But would you be better off if you just didn't pay attention to the passing noise of Twitter?
Tapper: I try not to pay attention to the stuff that’s against me. But the three things I just told you about have nothing to do with me.
Goldberg: One of them is so small. Some yutz on Twitter is comparing John McCain to Bowe Bergdahl.
Tapper: But Donald Trump Jr. liked it.
Goldberg: But that’s almost a reflex.
Tapper: But he knows better.
Goldberg: He’s not the president.
Tapper: No, but he’s the president’s son, and I know him a little bit, and he knows better, and it bothers me to see. And it bothered me when Democrats did this in 2008. It bothers me to see people denigrating John McCain’s military service. It bothers me. And when McCain was attacked by Trump—[Trump] said he wasn't a hero because he got captured. I found that horrendously offensive.


Goldberg: Was that the moment when you realized, Wait, something has gone awry in our society? That sort of thing should have killed the candidacy. But he actually became more popular with his base out of that.
Tapper: It’s so hard in retrospect to figure out which one was worse than the other.
Goldberg: The racism and misogyny and all the rest—let me say this as carefully as possible—those are things that could appeal to certain parts of his voting public. Some people who are racists voted for Donald Trump.
Tapper: Not everybody who voted for Donald Trump is racist. But plenty of racists voted for Donald Trump.
Goldberg: Veneration of veterans, specifically POWs, is known as patriotic conservative political behavior. And then Donald Trump flipped the whole thing on its head by attacking a POW for getting captured, which of course, when you think about it, is insane. This is the moment when the world went upside down.
Tapper: There is, in the United States, a historical context of xenophobia and racism that.
Goldberg: I’m staring at George Wallace in your office.
Tapper: We should point out that, before people think I have an office dedicated to a horrible segregationist, that my office is full of posters of people who ran for president and lost.
Goldberg: George Wallace is next to Howard Dean, which would probably not please Howard Dean.
Tapper: I have a Strom Thurmond in the corner over there too.
Goldberg: And a Hillary.
Tapper: I have two Hillarys because she lost twice. But the point in even invoking them is there are a lot of people in this room—Democrats and Republicans, their pictures on the wall—who stood for some pretty heinous, xenophobic things.
Goldberg: My point is that is that it’s traditionally been thought of as a losing proposition for a presidential candidate to attack a war hero. And that gets me to the question about this moment in our history. In a way, your personality was made for this moment because you do have an intolerance for nonsense, hypocrisy, and—let’s put it bluntly—unreconstructed and unapologetic lying.
Tapper: I don’t know that I’m any guy for any moment.
Goldberg: But there’s something crazy about this moment.
Tapper: There are so many lies and so much indecency, and I’m not only talking about President Trump. There is just a world of it exploding—and we are, I fear, as a nation, becoming conditioned and accepting of it. And it's horrific. It just feels like we’re meaner to each other. Every now and then I'll see a glimmer of light. The uncovering of Harvey Weinstein, that story was amazing.
Goldberg: The dam burst open.
Tapper: It feels like that. Although it’s incredibly horrible to—I don’t know what your Facebook and Twitter feeds are like, but all the women hashtagging #MeToo.
Goldberg: This is the disinfecting aspect of sunlight.
Tapper: I didn’t know that every single woman I knew had been assaulted or harassed at some point, if not worse. I didn’t know that.
Goldberg: I wasn’t going to bring this up because it's ancient history but you dated—for like 10 minutes—Monica Lewinsky.
Tapper: I went out with her once.
Goldberg: She was wronged by society and wronged by the meanness of our society. And I’m wondering if knowing her just slightly shaped any of your thoughts on the subject.
Tapper: Totally. Well, it was my first cover story for City Paper. I’d already been talking to them about coming on board but I’d gone out with Monica. It was a very G-rated date in December 1998. She was lovely. Sweet, nice, funny, charming, bright. You know she was about to move up to New York, and we went out and that was the end of that. But then I went on vacation with my dad, and when I came back, the story broke, and I was just like, Oh my god I know this woman—girl, really. She seemed like a girl. She must’ve been like 22. It was astounding because, first of all, everybody was so giggly.
Goldberg: Prurient and mean.
Tapper: Everybody was excited. A big sex scandal. Isn’t this funny. And I’m like, I know this girl—I know this young woman—and her life is being destroyed by everyone. Everyone was destroying her.
Goldberg: But it also fed into a general posture that you have in life of intolerance for a level of hypocrisy or—
Tapper:—meanness, I hope.
Goldberg: I’m trying to understand the root of it because I do think that you have risen high in a moment of great hypocrisy.
Tapper: Well can I tell you one thing. So, I’m writing a novel. And it takes place in 1954. So I've been spending a lot of time in the last year reading about 1954. And I don’t know who said it, but it is a brilliant saying, which is: history doesn't repeat itself, but it does rhyme. And there was this before. It was McCarthyism. It was incredibly indecent. It was full of lies and a lot of people should have known better and did not stand against it. There was a very powerful person and everybody was worried about alienating his supporters.
Goldberg: And when called out on lies, [he] doubled down on the lies without embarrassment.
Tapper: And there were people that knew better like Senator [Robert] Taft of Ohio, who was very highly regarded—a very strong conservative. And he thought he could straddle it—thought he could straddle the worlds—and he would say to people, to reporters, Well why do you cover them? Why do you cover him? Why are you giving him the attention he needs? You think you can straddle this stuff. And ultimately you can’t. You have to be Margaret Chase Smith in 1950 calling it out four years ahead of anybody else. You have to do it because history has its eyes on you, to quote Lin-Manuel Miranda.
Goldberg: You think Obama got a free ride from much of the press?
Tapper: Often. I think people were soft on him for a lot of reasons. Many, many reasons. Complicated reasons in some cases.
Goldberg: You think there’s a possibility that Trump is getting too hard a ride?
Tapper: Sometimes.
Goldberg: You do?
Tapper: Absolutely.
Goldberg: Give me an example.
Tapper: I think there is an inclination of some people to interpret every single thing he says and does in a horrific way, and as if he is without charm. He’s not wrong about everything he says. Washington is a swamp and there are a tremendous amount of conflicts of interest that we’re not outraged enough about. Now, is he doing anything about it? Not really that I can tell. Have trade deals been negotiated with Wall Street and corporate America in mind more than middle-class workers and the working class? Yeah, of course, 100 percent. Is it insane to think that we should have a secure border? I don’t think so. I mean, I don’t know if a wall is the right way to do it. Policy-wise, I think a lot of people in the press just act as though everything he wants to do is just based on a falsehood.
Goldberg: Where do you think this general posture of yours comes from? Righteous indignation, obstreperousness, oppositional behavior. Where does it come from? The moralizing part of your personality.
Tapper: I don’t know. Part of it probably is being raised by a doctor and a nurse who lived in a section of Philadelphia where there were a lot of working class people, and seeing the world through their eyes. They were part of that generation thinking the world needs to be better. We’re not doing enough for poor people, we’re not doing enough for black people, we’re fighting a war that we shouldn't be fighting and our kids are dying for no reason. There is something in me that gets really exercised when I think things aren’t fair. And I can’t psychologically explain it except to say that it’s just part of who I am.
And sometimes it ends up being something that I can use to try to benefit the public’s knowledge or understanding of an issue. And I recognize that it’s probably a pain in the ass for a lot of people now. But it is just who I am.
I don’t have any illusions that any of this is going to stand the test of time. I’m just—when Jack and Alice, my kids, read about this period in history, I want to be able to Google it and say, “That’s what daddy did that day. That’s the story.” I want them to feel good.
Goldberg: All of our kids can get together as adults and listen to this podcast. The chances of that are extremely slim.
Tapper: The chances of them making it through the first 30 seconds are nil.
Goldberg: They’re not that interested in us.
Tapper: I think it’s fair to say that you and I are the two least popular members of the families. And I’m including the dogs.


“Why am I supposed to be the only person that is unable to tell my story?” asked Donna Brazile, during the early days of her media blitz. Apparently she shouldn’t have worried. Her campaign memoir, Hacks, just debuted at number three on the New York Times Best Sellers list.
Donna Brazile's Curious Account of the 2016 Election
Still, I suspect Brazile’s urge to speak her truth—and her anger at anyone who might be trying to stop her—is genuine. Being a political operative, even a high-level one, is an act of self-censorship. You don’t express yourself. You help other, more important people express themselves. You forgo the pride of authorship for the chance to make a difference. It’s a reasonable tradeoff.
Until it isn’t. For some of us, there comes a time when our own voices bubble up. We want to be heard. And if we’re lucky enough to find publishers, we write books.
I say this from experience. My own political memoir, Thanks, Obama, came out two months ago. In many ways it’s quite different from Brazile’s. Where she spent decades in the upper echelons of Democratic politics, I entered the White House as a junior-level speechwriter when I was 24 and left as a mid-level one five years later. Also, while far from perfect, my experience in politics was positive, which is bad for book sales but good for mental health.
Even so, I empathize with Brazile’s hunger for self-expression. I know how it feels to decide (or be tricked by your ego into thinking, or both) that you have a story worth telling.
And I know what it’s like to grapple with a new set of responsibilities. It’s a question I thought about constantly while writing Thanks, Obama, and again while reading Hacks. What do operatives-turned-authors owe not just their publishers and readers, but the people and organizations they used to represent?
While the most common answer is “loyalty,” I don’t think that’s correct. I wrote admiringly of President Obama and my former colleagues, but that’s because I genuinely admire them. Brazile writes harshly about the Obama White House and the DNC, two organizations I’ve worked for, but I don’t think there’s anything inherently wrong with her sharing her opinions. (When the shoe is on the other foot, and Reince Priebus is ready to turn on his former allies, I’ll almost certainly praise him for coming clean.)
After about a year of writing and rewriting, I came to believe that instead of loyalty, the would-be memoirist owes something both more universal and less straightforward. Judgment. Those writing books about their time in politics have a larger platform than most citizens. But we share the same responsibility: to think critically about our democracy and the role we’ve been lucky enough to play in it.
That’s where Hacks falls short. Regardless of your feelings about its merits as a tell-all, as a book, it’s careless. It feels raw, not in the sense of being powerful, but in the sense of being not yet ready for consumption.
From the very first page, Brazile makes clear that she’s writing about wounds that haven’t yet healed. Her opening anecdote, for example, is about her frustration that Hillary Clinton waited until four months after Election Day to call. When the call finally arrives, and Hillary proves less grateful than expected, it only adds to the pain. “I know she was being as sincere as possible,” Brazile writes. “But I wanted something more from her.”
This pattern—political history as personal insult—repeats itself throughout the book.  When the Hillary campaign plans to transfer $2 million instead of $8 million to the DNC, Brazile tells Clinton staffers they’re treating her like Patsey, Lupita N’yongo’s character from 12 Years a Slave. In an early chapter, the DNC chair schedules a Tim Kaine speech without informing Brooklyn. When Clinton’s communications director, Jennifer Palmieri, storms off after discovering the change, Brazile writes (italics original), “I was thinking, If that bitch ever does anything like that to me again, I will walk.”
Do the author’s personal pain and anger color her broader impressions of the Clinton campaign? Does she think it’s possible Brooklyn had a good reason for wanting to keep the vice presidential candidate away from the scandal-plagued DNC? I don’t know what Brazile thinks about these questions. She never answers them.
She never even asks them. There’s nothing in Brazile’s behavior, or more important in her recounting of it, that suggests introspection has been a priority. Take this moment from chapter one, after WikiLeaks releases DNC emails ahead of the party convention. “I wanted to personally apologize to folks,” Brazile writes. A paragraph later, she recounts the moment:
“I’m a vice chair of the party, and I just want to say on behalf of the DNC, I’m not the chair, but I want to apologize.”
I love this formulation. It’s a perfect 10 in cover-your-ass gymnastics. But that aside, it gets at Brazile’s genuine inability to decide on the role she played in her own story. Was she an important political figure unfairly targeted by the Russians, the Trump campaign, and her old friend Hillary? Or was she a semi-retired political commentator and consultant who had history thrust upon her, a kind of elder-stateswoman-meets-fly-on-the-wall?
You might think not knowing doesn’t matter. But not knowing snowballs. Wrapping up her convention speech, she sums her newfound responsibility: “Work as hard as I could to bring my friend Hillary to victory.” Yet two chapters later, she writes that Obama, Hillary, and Debbie Wasserman-Schultz had crippled the DNC. “They had leeched it of its vitality, and were continuing to do so. In my three months I was going to do what I could to bring that life back.” So did she spend three months supporting Clinton, or defending the DNC from her? Those are different books.
Or take the thing Brazile was best-known for during the 2016 campaign—leaking a debate question to the Clinton campaign during the primary. This one should be easy to pin down. After all, Brazile apologized for the leak months ago. But in her book, she goes on exhaustive search for evidence, and then says she can’t find any. She doesn’t deny having sent the email to the Clinton camp. Yet she also doesn’t retract her earlier apology. Shouldn’t this, at least, be something she can take a position on?
Not in the world of Hacks. “It’s impossible to know” is Brazile’s answer to nearly everything. Consider the most explosive charge—that the DNC had rigged the primary to make it impossible for Bernie Sanders to prevail. Page 95: “I would get to the bottom of whether or not Hillary’s team had rigged the party process in her favor.” Page 96: “I had found my proof, and it broke my heart.” Page 159: “Overall the game was not rigged against him.”
Okay then. Glad we got to the bottom of that.
At other times, Brazile substitutes rhetorical questions for conclusions. “Who was going to believe that a grandma with pneumonia would go to her daughter’s house to recover with two vulnerable little ones around?” she writes of Hillary’s fainting spell in September 2016. She’s not accusing the Clinton campaign of covering up a more serious health problem, mind you. She’s just sprinkling doubt onto every major event from the campaign. It’s like reading What Happened, if What Happened had skeptical, thinking-face emojis punctuating every page.
Then there are the moments Brazile just throws ideas against the wall. Discussing DNC staffer Seth Rich’s murder, she writes, “With all that I knew about the Russians’ hacking, I could not help but wonder if they had played some part in his unsolved murder. Besides that, racial tensions were high that summer and I worried that he was murdered for being white on the wrong side of town.” Were Brazile chatting with friends over her beloved Johnny Walker Black, perhaps spitballing murder theories would be acceptable. But this is supposed to be a definite account. There are wrong ideas in brainstorming.
In fact, brainstorming is in and of itself a wrong idea. Were this a more conventional book—a YA novel, or a memoir about a beloved pet—Brazile’s lack of introspection might merely disappoint readers. But with a political memoir like this one, the stakes are higher. If you don’t know what conclusions you hope to draw, a million conspiracy theorists and partisan propagandists will draw one for you.
That’s what happened with Hacks. As an author, Brazile may have hoped to speak her truth, but readers are buying it for its choose-your-own-adventure quality. No matter your preferred conspiracy theory, there’s a line in the book to support it. (There’s also a line in Hacks to refute it, but that can be conveniently ignored.)
Which is why this book continued to bother me, even after Democrats won big in Virginia elections and the national conversation moved on. For those of us who choose to write corridors-of-power memoirs, the one altruistic element of the project—the thing that is supposed to balance out the ego and navel-gazing at the heart of the endeavor— is the idea that we can provide clarity in the mucky world of politics. We don’t necessarily succeed. If we fail, it’s not necessarily our fault. But it is up to us to try.
I don’t think Brazile tried. Instead of contributing to our understanding, Hacks muddies the waters. Instead of warning us about Putin and Trump, it contributes to the post-truth, nothing-matters atmosphere that enable their rise. Yes, Brazile told her story. Yes, she spoke her truth. But her story confuses instead of clarifies, and her truth gives cover to liars.
That’s a serious lapse in judgement. And when you do a job—any job—without fully considering its responsibilities, that doesn’t make you  heroic. It makes you hacky.


Republicans and Democrats have found gun legislation both sides agree on. But that doesn’t mean it will pass.
In the wake of mass shootings in Nevada, Texas, and California, Democratic Senator Chris Murphy, an outspoken advocate of gun control, introduced a bill to strengthen the federal background-check system for gun sales. Debates over gun control on Capitol Hill nearly always give way to inaction in the face of Republican opposition. But Democrats aren’t alone in supporting this new legislation: It is also backed by Republican Senators John Cornyn, the second highest-ranking Republican in the Senate, Orrin Hatch, Tim Scott, and Dean Heller.
How a Non-Incumbent GOP Winner in Virginia Stayed Above Water
The legislation doesn’t call for expanding restrictions on gun purchases; it’s meant to stop people from buying guns when they were never supposed to be able to in the first place. The National Instant Criminal Background Check System, or NICS, relies on state and federal officials to report mental-health and criminal-conviction records that legally bar individuals from purchasing firearms. But those records don’t always make it into the system.
After a gunman killed 26 people in Sutherland Springs, Texas, earlier this month, the Air Force conceded that it failed to report the shooter’s prior domestic violence conviction, an action that if it had been taken might have prevented the purchase of the firearms used in the shooting. The new legislation is intended to make sure that something like that never happens again.
Any Republican who decides to back the legislation can argue that they just want existing laws to be enforced. And it looks like the GOP won’t have to fear backlash from the gun lobby. “We applaud Senator John Cornyn’s efforts to ensure that the records of prohibited individuals are entered into NICS,” Chris Cox of the NRA said in a statement. “The National Rifle Association has long supported the inclusion of all legitimate records in the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.” The National Shooting Sports Foundation, a trade association for the firearms industry, put out a statement on Thursday in which it “praised U.S. Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) for his leadership” on the bill.
Gun-control advocates support the bill too, and say it’s evidence that common ground between Republicans and Democrats in the gun debate is possible. “This is both parties affirming that there are people that we believe should not have access to guns, and we want to make sure that the system is set up in such a way that we prevent access to guns for those people,” Christian Heyne, the legislative director of the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, which supports the legislation, said in an interview. “This is a real, genuine effort from people who couldn’t be further from each other on the other side of the aisle.”
In addition to Senators Murphy, Cornyn, Hatch, Scott, and Heller, Democratic Senators Richard Blumenthal, Dianne Feinstein, and Jeanne Shaheen are also co-sponsors.
But bipartisan support is still no guarantee that the legislation will actually move forward in Congress or ever be enacted. For that, it needs the support of the Republican congressional leadership. In response to a request for comment asking if Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has plans to advance the bill, a spokesman for McConnell said, “We’re reviewing it.”
There are countless examples of a debate over guns flaring up in Congress in response to a mass shooting, only to stall out not long after. Some Republicans in Congress expressed a willingness to consider a ban on “bump stocks,” a device that enables semi-automatic weapons to fire faster, after 58 people were killed in Las Vegas, Nevada, in what has been called the worst mass shooting in modern U.S. history. In mid-October, Republican Representative Carlos Curbelo and Democratic Representative Seth Moulton introduced a bill to ban the use of bump stocks. Weeks later, the legislation had stalled.
Legislation doesn’t always stall out though: In the aftermath of the Virginia Tech shooting in 2007, Republicans and Democrats came together to pass a bill to improve the federal background-check system after it was discovered that the shooter had a history of mental-health problems that should have barred him from buying a gun. The NICS Improvement Amendments Act, a measure similarly intended to strengthen the background-check system, was later signed into law by Republican President George W. Bush.  
Of course, just as the legislation passed in the aftermath of the Virginia Tech shooting has not fixed every problem with the federal background-check system, it’s possible that the current legislation under consideration wouldn’t end every instance where relevant records fail to end up in the national system.
The bill contains a number of provisions designed to ensure that records are reported, including a system of incentives and penalties designed to prevent gaps in the system. States could tap into federal-grant preferences if they implement plans to upload records, while federal agencies would be denied money for political appointees if they fail to report necessary background information.
Po Murray of Newton Action Alliance, a group formed after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, killed 20 children in 2012, said that she “applaud[s] the bipartisan effort” and “agree[s] that NICS needs to be fixed,” but that she wanted Congress to pass other gun laws as well to reduce mass shootings, gun homicides, and suicides.  
The Murphy-Cornyn legislation proposes changes that fall short of the full roster of reforms that advocates want to see made to the background-check system, including the implementation of universal background checks to cover private and online sales. Senator Murphy introduced legislation in October that would expand background checks for private sales. That bill currently has no Republican co-sponsors, though polling indicates that a majority of Americans support universal background checks.  
The recent shootings in Las Vegas and Texas are now being counted as two of the five deadliest mass shootings in American history. That might increase pressure on Congress to do something.
“We’re always concerned that momentum can be lost,” said Robin Lloyd, the director of government affairs for Giffords, the gun violence prevention organization founded by former congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords. But Lloyd added that the recent tragedies “may be the catalyst for moving something like the Cornyn-Murphy bill over the finish line.”


President Trump blasted Minnesota Senator Al Franken after the lawmaker was accused of forcibly kissing and groping a woman, but did not mention Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, who has also been accused of sexual misconduct. During a rally in Alabama, Kayla Moore said her husband isn’t letting the allegations get to him: “He will not step down.” Reverend Jesse Jackson, the 76-year-old civil-rights leader, announced that he was diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease. The executive director of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority resigned amid questions about the slow rate of repairs to the island’s electrical grid. And in a statement on Facebook, Ohio Supreme Court Justice William O’Neill defended “heterosexual males” amid allegations of sexual misconduct, and described his own sexual history.
It ‘Looks Like Hypocrisy’: Marie Griffith, the author of the forthcoming book Moral Combat, explains why American Christians are defending Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore. (Emma Green)
What She Knew: Liberals seem eager to acknowledge the sexual-misconduct allegations against former President Bill Clinton. But when will they admit that Hillary Clinton likely knew about them? (Caitlin Flanagan)
The Specter of Fake News: Republicans’ constant attacks on the mainstream media have come back to haunt them. (Rosie Gray and McKay Coppins)
Radio Atlantic: Andrew Anglin achieved notoriety after he founded the Daily Stormer, the world's biggest website for neo-Nazis. Anglin and his mob of followers have terrorized people around the world, and their influence has been cited by the perpetrators of fatal violence. What lessons should be learned from Anglin's radicalization? And what is society's best response to his ideas? In this episode of Radio Atlantic, Luke O'Brien and Rosie Gray join Jeff and Matt to discuss these questions, and how far-right extremism is evolving.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Where Will It End?: The question prompted by recent sexual-misconduct allegations against Senator Al Franken isn’t whether he will resign, it’s how many other sitting lawmakers will be similarly accused. (Damon Linker, The Week)
The Greater Good: Kate Harding, a self-identified feminist and author of a book on rape culture, makes the case for why Democrats shouldn’t demand Senator Al Franken’s resignation. (The Washington Post)
Epic Exit Interview: New Jersey Governor Chris Christie has had a rough couple of years, but he wants to focus on the good things he’s done during his time in office: “The bridge stuff is part of that, and the Trump stuff is part of that, but it’s only a part.” (Josh Dawsey, Politico)
Driven to Hypocrisy: In an interview published Friday, Hillary Clinton questioned the legitimacy of the 2016 presidential election. Becket Adams argues that her question directly threatens American democracy. (Washington Examiner)
Behind the Trump Ocean Club: This is the story of how an alleged fraudster in Panama worked with Ivanka Trump to accomplish the Trump family’s first international hotel venture. (Reuters)
‘The Uncounted’: The New York Times visited 150 sites of U.S.-led coalition airstrikes in northern Iraq and found that 20 percent of the strikes resulted in a civilian death—more than 31 times the number reported by the coalition. (Azmat Khan and Anand Gopal)
Into Darkness: Puerto Rico has been mostly without power for nearly 59 days. Check out these graphics of the ongoing blackout. (The Washington Post)
This week, we asked whether you think Seattle’s new safe-injection facility for heroin addicts is an effective strategy for addressing the country’s escalating opioid epidemic. Here’s what you said:
“Just as sex education doesn't cause sex, safe injection facilities will help those suffering from addiction,” said reader Sasia Bushko, “especially when treatment opportunities are also advertised at the facilities.”
But James disagrees: “I believe through experience that the only way addiction can be healed is through behavior-modification and the transforming of belief-systems. To simply offer a safer way to 'get high' and 'stay addicted' is ludicrous and a waste of money and time.”
Finally, Betsy, who is from Seattle, reminds us that there isn’t a simple solution: “It strikes me that a problem as complex as opioid addiction resembles homelessness: there's no one approach that will solve it, and because the cost of living here has become ridiculous, anything related to property, whether squatting in a neighborhood, camping in a car, opening an injection site in a residential area—touches hot buttons and stokes anger and fear among taxpayers that planners and advocates refuse to acknowledge.”
Thanks to everyone who submitted responses, and stay tuned for next week’s Question of the Week.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


This article is edited from a story shared exclusively with members of The Masthead, the membership program from The Atlantic (find out more). In part one, we explore how fringe groups on the internet have assimilated into the mainstream. In part two, we dive deep into one particular online group often associated with the alt-right, tracking how it’s grown since its inception.

Whitney Phillips, a professor of literary studies at Mercer University, has been researching the culture of online trolls—people who post intentionally provocative or offensive material on the internet—for 10 years. For most of her career, she had to convince her colleagues that the members of fringe communities on websites like 4Chan and Reddit who traffic in racist, sexist, and homophobic jokes were worth studying. “They’d say, who cares? They’re just jerks on the internet.” But over the last 18 months, what was once the fringe has penetrated the mainstream.
According to a study published last week, these fringe communities have a disproportionate impact on more mainstream media platforms like Twitter, influencing the larger public conversation. Jeremy Blackburn, assistant professor of computer science at UAB College of Arts and Sciences, and a team of other professors studied a variety of groups on Reddit, an aggregation site that organizes posts based on “up” and “down” votes from the community, and 4Chan, an image-based discussion platform, that, in his view, lean toward the alt-right. Many self-identify as alt-right—others nurture ideas widely associated with that movement, which often espouses white supremacist, misogynistic, or anti-semitic views. “It was especially interesting, considering the size of these communities. They seem insignificant,” Blackburn said. “And yet they had the power to really push things on Twitter.”
There is no demographic data on these fringe online communities, but Blackburn believes they’re led by a group of men—the groups are notoriously misogynistic—in their mid-to-late 20s who grew up reading 4Chan, which has been around for over a decade. “They’ve become very good at curating content and enticing people in the information-overload culture we live in today. These guys have spent ten years figuring out how to get their message out.” Typically, they use short, catchy messages, jokes, or memes—content that is easy to share on Twitter and Facebook. The best-known meme to come out of these communities is Pepe the Frog, a cartoon frog often juxtaposed with racist words or symbols. In September 2016, the Anti-Defamation League identified Pepe as a hate symbol.
“In my class a few years ago, I’d always be able to identify subcultural trolls. They were the only ones who knew this particular set of jokes or memes. But now more and more trolling references have been integrated into the broader internet lexicon. Now, one of my students might just have seen the joke on Facebook,” Phillips said.
The election lent a degree of legitimacy to these fringe online communities. In turn, these communities helped Trump to win the election, a victory that has empowered them further. Throughout his campaign, Donald Trump’s campaign engaged with forums on Reddit, particularly The_Donald, the most popular subreddit (a subject-specific group) started by Trump supporters, often associated with the alt-right. About a year before the election, Trump shared a meme of Pepe the Frog’s face superimposed on his body. The following July, Trump hosted an AMA, or “Ask Me Anything,” on Reddit, inviting user questions. Instead of hosting the interview on the traditional /r/IAmA subreddit, as past presidential candidates have done, however, he chose to publish it on The_Donald. As Trump engaged directly with this subreddit, the media began to report on the forum—which, in turn, attracted more people to it.
Since Trump’s election, these communities have become journalistic go-tos for a range of political stories. When tragedies happen—mass shootings or the violence in Charlottesville—Phillips said journalists have started going straight to communities within 4Chan with links to the alt-right. “It’s easy to write a story about people on 4Chan because they’re always saying something terrible,” Phillips said. “There has been an extreme amount of sharing and amplifying that crystallized what we understand to be the alt-right.”
Phillips argues that these communities started moving into the mainstream even before the 2016 campaigns. Memes, she said, have always been central to trolling subculture. But since 4Chan deletes content after just a few days, in order to understand the jokes, users had to be active in its communities. That changed in 2012 with the creation of Know Your Meme, an online database devoted to cataloguing memes from all over the internet. “Know Your Meme lowered the bar of entry, and allowed people to participate in the funny parts of trolling subculture,” said Phillips. Once people felt like they were in on the joke, Phillips told me, they became more likely to engage with them in other ways.
Video-game forums offered another transmission mechanism for fringe groups. In a recent study for FiveThirtyEight, Ph.D. candidate Trevor Martin found a strong correlation between people who subscribe to The_Donald and people who subscribe to popular gaming subreddits. Particularly after Gamergate, a controversy around sexual harassment in the predominantly male online gaming community, many online gamers felt they were being treated unfairly by a media obsessed with political correctness. In response, many took refuge in alt-right communities, or formed new, heavily misogynistic communities of their own.
“All of these young men felt they were under attack from the politically correct sphere. You saw this radicalization of people you wouldn’t expect to be that political,” Martin said.  
Over the last five years, Phillips has shifted from seeking more attention for these groups to seeking less. She’s still not sure that the media has struck the right balance. After the shooting at the church in Sutherland Springs, Texas, Phillips said she knew exactly what media requests to expect. Journalists would want to know how online alt-right communities were responding to the tragedy. She always takes their calls, but worries about giving trolls an even louder mouthpiece. “Even if you’re condemning it, you’re amplifying it.”




HOW THE_DONALD DOMINATED THE INTERNET
Before the 2016 presidential election, supporters created Reddit forums called subreddits for every major candidate in the race. On election night, Hillary Clinton’s main subreddit had 34,787 subscribers. Donald Trump’s had 280,012. Today, Trump’s subreddit—“The_Donald”—has swelled to over 520,000 accounts. Its trajectory mirrors the recent growth—in size and impact—of other fringe groups.


All news is “fake news”—at least if you’re a diehard Roy Moore supporter.
With sexual misconduct allegations continuing to mount against the Republican Senate candidate in Alabama, Moore has defied calls to drop out of the race by advancing an audacious conspiracy theory—that partisan fabulists in the mainstream media are working with his enemies in the political establishment to wage a nefarious smear campaign against him. Not long ago, such claims likely would have backfired. But in the Trump era, anti-press sentiment has reached a fever pitch on the right—something candidates like Moore are eagerly exploiting.
Moore has not directly denied many of the specific allegations. Instead, he has sought to cast himself as the victim of a witch hunt and sow just enough doubt in the stories to muddy the waters in voters’ minds.
A Bizarre Night in the Roy Moore Scandal
“Their only response to this is really to find other villains in the process to take the heat off of them,” said the Republican strategist John Brabender, a former Rick Santorum campaign adviser. The two villains they have chosen are The Washington Post and other mainstream outlets, to “discredit the messenger,” Brabender said, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and the Republican establishment, “to make the point that this is really just elitist establishment figures who never wanted Roy Moore.”
“From a pure strategy standpoint that is logically where you would go,” Brabender said. “That is the only way you could survive this.”
Charlie Sykes, a former conservative talk radio host, said Republican voters have been conditioned over years of right-wing media consumption to reflexively reject any news that challenges their worldview. “These alternative-reality silos—not only do they reinforce an ideological message, but they can be impenetrable,” he said.
Sykes admits that he was once part of the problem. When he hosted his popular Milwaukee-based radio show, he routinely devoted airtime to bashing the press—calling out perceived partisanship, and telling listeners that they couldn't get the full story by reading the papers. While Sykes stands by many of his critiques, he eventually grew alarmed by the hyper-skepticism his audience began to exhibit. By the middle of last year’s election, he said, he couldn’t even cite stories from The New York Times or The Washington Post on the air without listeners dismissing them as untrustworthy.
In Alabama, Sykes said, a “nightmare scenario” is unfolding. “You have credible journalism being attacked and ignored amid a flood of misinformation and bizarre propaganda,” he said, adding that his compatriots in the conservative media who are horrified by Moore need to grapple with their own culpability. “I think we should be horrified by the monster we helped create.”
Of course, conservatives have been complaining about bias in the news media for decades. "You have to remember the 1964 GOP convention—Goldwater delegates screaming at the media—to get a little sense of how deep and how long the hostility legacy exists," said Newt Gingrich. "It has just gotten steadily worse and can be seen as a deepening chasm."
But in recent years, conservatives’ culture war on the press has escalated dramatically—culminating in 2016 with Trump winning the nomination while ridiculing journalists by name from the stump. "The war between Trump and the news media, and his willingness to take them head on more than anyone since Goldwater, has solidified his base while making it harder to reach moderates who are fed a daily diet of hostility by the media,” Gingrich said.
Trump’s rise brought right-wing mistrust of the media to new heights, as Trump first mocked the media on the stump as a candidate, then kept the reporters covering his campaign in press pens at rallies, and now calls any story he doesn’t like “fake news.” There has been a shift—once, the media was just biased; now, many Republican base voters believe it is actually fabricating stories. A Politico/Morning Consult poll last month showed that 46 percent of all voters believe the media make up stories about Trump, including 76 percent of Republicans.
“The trust in the media was already at a low point and by Trump constantly going after the media, it’s further eroded faith in the media and has actually activated people to be against it,” said the Republican strategist and former RNC spokesman Doug Heye. “That’s part of the tribalism we see in our politics, the erosion in all capital-I institutions.” Heye recalled being at a George H.W. Bush rally in 1992 and seeing a bumper sticker that said “Annoy the media, vote Bush”—a message that seems almost quaint now.
“What Trump has done is he’s personalized it and activated it to where people think the media’s going after Trump, but by going after Trump the media’s going after them,” he said.
An increasingly atomized and diverse news media has meant that consumers have more control than ever about what news sources they pay attention to. And the rise of conservative talk radio in the 1990s and conservative online media over the last decade has built a conservative media ecosystem outside of which many voters don’t stray.
Some Republicans, meanwhile, argue that members of the press are the ones to blame for the loss of credibility now on display in Alabama. “They were soft on President Obama, and they were brutal on Donald Trump,” said Ari Fleischer, who served as President George W. Bush’s press secretary. “You put those two together, and people logically conclude that the press goes easier on Democrats than it does on Republicans.”
Fleischer has called on Moore to drop out of the race, and said the reporting on the candidate’s alleged history with adolescent girls has been “solid.” But he doesn’t fault Alabama voters for being suspicious. “I’m very sympathetic to the conservative point of view that the press can’t be trusted,” he said. “I understand that. And I wish the press was more introspective about what they did to bring this upon themselves, instead of just dismissing [conservatives] as loonies.”
Similarly, Heye noted that in recent years the Duke Lacrosse scandal and a discredited Rolling Stone article about campus rape have engendered doubt in the media’s reporting on assault claims.
It remains to be seen whether Moore’s strategy of demonizing the media will be enough. But so far, his core supporters appear primed to disregard what they’re reading in the news.
At a press conference on Thursday given by religious activists supporting Moore, organizers requested that the media not ask questions about the allegations. When reporters did anyway, supporters berated the press, BuzzFeed reported, telling them, “You were told not to ask about that” and, “You make me sick.” Moore’s wife Kayla posted a link to her Facebook page on Wednesday of a contact form the campaign has created for people to report “inappropriate news organization contact.” And someone posing as Washington Post reporter Lenny Bernstein placed automated phone calls offering people money for information about Moore.
People are “opening their eyes, they’re seeing we’ve been led down the road by the establishment, the establishment Republicans, the fake news,” said Dean Young, a friend of Moore’s who said he has become chief strategist on the campaign. “Trump really helped people see that we’ve been lied to for a long long time, we’ve been led around like a bunch of sheep.”
The Alabama-based Republican consultant David Mowery said that though there was an automatic tendency to dismiss reporting from national outlets like the Washington Post, reports by local outlets could hold more weight there. AL.com, for example, broke the news of another Moore accuser on Wednesday.
“The more it’s local media and not the Washington media, I think it becomes less of a tenable argument,” Mowery said. “I’ve seen people on my Facebook feed saying I know these women, they’re real, this happened.”
There are some segments of the national media, though, whose support Moore appears to need to stay viable. When Sean Hannity delivered a 24-hour ultimatum to Moore on Tuesday night, saying he would rescind his endorsement unless Moore explained himself, the campaign scrambled to meet the Fox News host’s demands. By Wednesday night, Hannity made clear he was not ditching Moore—much to his supporters’ relief. “I don’t know what effect that would have had,” Young said. “We sure are glad that Sean Hannity did not pull his endorsement.”
Though Breitbart News chairman Steve Bannon has privately discussed whether to continue backing Moore, the site has stayed the course. For much of the day on Thursday, the site’s homepage was mostly devoted to new allegations of sexual misconduct against Democratic Senator Al Franken.
“People need to understand the value of third-party validators,” said the Republican consultant Rick Tyler, a former Ted Cruz campaign spokesman. “Otherwise it begins to look like a banana republic pretty quick. You’d have to really believe in grand conspiracies for this thing to work.”


Earlier this week, New York magazine’s Jonathan Chait asked his fellow liberals to imagine that Roy Moore were a Democrat. “It’s easy to feel superior about this when opposition to grotesque treatment of teenage girls lines up neatly with your own party’s well-being,” he wrote. “If you’re a liberal, ask yourself what you would do if the circumstances were reversed.”
Democrats Embrace Ethics Committee Inquiry for Senator Franken
Thanks to Al Franken, we can now answer that question better. The details of each man’s offense differ: Moore is accused of pursuing teenager girls while he was in his 30s, and two women have accused him of sexually assaulting them when they were teenagers. Leeann Tweeden, a broadcaster for KABC in Los Angeles, said Franken kissed and groped her without her consent. Still, each party’s reaction is telling. Each is split, but in opposite ways.
In the GOP, the people taking the harshest line against Moore are congressional leaders like Mitch McConnell. They want Moore to withdraw from his Senate race largely because they fear Democrats will use him to tar other Republican candidates as sexist, as they did in 2012 when Todd Akin, the GOP’s Senate candidate in Missouri, said it was impossible for women to get pregnant from  “legitimate rape.” But McConnell and company have been stymied by local Alabama Republicans—and Donald Trump-supporting media personalities like Steve Bannon and Sean Hannity—who won’t abandon Moore. In the GOP, it’s the Washington establishment that wants Moore gone. Grassroots activists and the right-wing media want him to stay.          
In the Democratic Party—so far—it’s largely the reverse. As of Thursday night, not a single Democratic senator had called on Franken to resign. While decrying his behavior, they’ve mostly called for an investigation by the congressional Ethics Committee, which isn’t all that punitive given that the committee—as The Atlantic’s Elaine Godfrey has noted—has “not issued disciplinary sanctions against anyone in nine years.”
The pressure on Franken to resign is coming from the bottom up. While Alabama Republican politicians have stuck with Moore despite pressure from Washington, in the Democratic Party, it’s local Minnesota Democrats who are demanding that Franken go. On Thursday, Minnesota State Auditor and gubernatorial candidate Rebecca Otto called on Franken to resign. So did Megan Thomas, who runs the Minnesota party’s Feminist Caucus.
Prominent liberal journalists are also urging Franken to resign. New York Times columnist Michelle Goldberg has said he must leave the Senate. So has Mark Joseph Stern in Slate, and a host of liberal celebrities. (For her part, Tweeden has said she accepts Franken’s apology.)
Both parties are divided between people who are reacting politically and people who are reacting ideologically. In the GOP, the politically minded—who run the congressional Republican Party—want Moore to go because they fear his impact on the party’s chances next fall. But the ideologically minded Alabama conservatives—and the media personalities who influence them—want Moore to stay in the race because they see the attack on him as part of a broader assault by the liberal media. The steering committee of the Alabama Republican Party is standing behind Moore. And in so doing, it likely represents the view of conservative Alabamans as a whole. A JMC Analytics poll taken between November 9 and 11 found that 37 percent of self-described evangelicals in Alabama actually said the charges against Moore made them more likely to vote for him compared to only 28 percent who said the charges made them less likely to. Moore’s supporters see the attacks on him as part of a culture war, which they’re determined to wage even if costs their party seats.
In the Democratic Party, by contrast, the politically minded—Charles Schumer and company—don’t want to imperil a safe Senate seat if they don’t have to. Ideologically minded liberals, by contrast, fear that letting Franken stay in his job will make it easier for other sexual harassers to escape punishment. If Franken stays, writes Goldberg, “The current movement toward unprecedented accountability for sexual harassers will probably start to peter out. Republicans, never particularly eager to hold their own to account, will use Franken to deflect from more egregious abuse on their own side.” For Goldberg, sustaining the post-Weinstein cultural and moral reckoning is more important than ensuring a Democratic seat in the senate.
The Moore and Franken battles constitute yet more evidence that the bases of the two parties are even more polarized than their leaders in Washington. In dealing with sexual harassment, congressional Democratic and Republican leaders aren’t that far apart. Both see eruptions like Moore and Franken’s as political problems to be managed so they don’t hurt the party as a whole. The larger gulf is between grassroots liberal activists who want to change men’s behavior, no matter the political fallout, and conservative activists who see sexual-harassment claims against Republicans as a conspiracy by the liberal media.
In both parties, power is devolving from top to bottom, from political strategists to ideological activists. Mitch McConnell can’t tell Roy Moore what to do and, I suspect, Charles Schumer won’t be able to tell Minnesota Democrats either. The result: If I had to bet which man is more likely to be in the Senate next January, I’d put my money on Roy Moore.


President Trump jabbed at Senator Al Franken in a pair of late-night tweets Thursday, poking at a Democrat whose career is in danger over past sexual harassment, but calling attention to his silence about Alabama U.S. Senate candidate Roy Moore—and, moreover, to his own history, including his boasts about sexual assault.
One Harvey Weinstein in Hollywood, Another in the White House
On Thursday, radio host Leeann Tweeden wrote about two incidents during a 2006 USO tour to Iraq, Kuwait, and Afghanistan. In one case, she said Franken—a Saturday Night Live alumnus and comedian who was not yet a senator—forcibly kissed Tweeden against her will during a rehearsal for a skit. And after returning home from the trip, Tweeden received a CD of photos that included Franken either groping or pretending to grope her over a flak jacket as she slept.
The story and photo threaten to end the career of a rising Democratic star, one who had even been mentioned as a potential 2020 presidential candidate. (Immediate reaction has been split: Some Democrats have called for Franken to resign, while many of his Senate colleagues have joined Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell in calling for an Ethics Committee investigation.) The president jumped in, offering one of his trademark nicknames:
The Al Frankenstien picture is really bad, speaks a thousand words. Where do his hands go in pictures 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6 while she sleeps? .....
.And to think that just last week he was lecturing anyone who would listen about sexual harassment and respect for women. Lesley Stahl tape?
The latter tweet is a reference to a 1995 New York magazine piece in which Franken spitballs an SNL sketch, including lines in which Andy Rooney would talk about drugging and raping his 60 Minutes colleague.
Franken is fair game, and his behavior is unacceptable. But as with so many of Trump’s late-night and early-morning tweets, his strategy is unclear. While it’s no surprise that he’d take a shot at Franken, his tweets call attention to his silence with regards to Moore, the embattled Alabama contender.
Over the last eight days, a series of women—first four, then five, then six, and now others—have emerged with stories about Moore. They range from the alarming, about Moore’s apparent habit of dating high-schools girls, to the distressing, like rumors he was banned from the local mall for his pursuit of the girls, to the criminal. One woman says when she was 14, Moore brought her to his house, undressed, and guided her hand to touch his genitals. Another says he offered to give her a ride home, then locked her in his car as he groped her and tried to force her head into his crotch.
Moore has offered fiery and flat denials but has not specifically rebutted most of the allegations. He told Sean Hannity that he didn’t “generally” date teenage girls but didn’t deny he had; his lawyer delivered a rambling press conference about one accuser that didn’t really refute her account at all.
As these stories mount, an increasing number of Republicans, led by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, have said they find Moore’s accusers credible and demanded that Moore drop out of the race. The National Republican Senatorial Committee and Republican National Committee have followed suit, and recent polls show Moore falling behind Democrat Doug Jones ahead of the December 12 election.
But Trump, who was in Asia when the scandal began, has remained silent. Trump supported Senator Luther Strange in the earlier GOP primary against Moore. The White House has said that if the allegations are true, Moore should step down, and left it at that. Politico reported that Republicans expected Trump to speak about the race on Wednesday, but he stayed mum instead.
Trump’s silence on Moore, and his quick reaction on Franken, stand out not just because of his party’s internal divisions over Moore. As Erin Gloria Ryan has written, declaring that all sexual harassment is unacceptable doesn’t preclude differentiating between levels of predation, and the allegations against Moore—involving teenagers, including a 14-year-old—are more serious and numerous than those against Franken. It’s true that Franken, unlike Moore, has acknowledged his inappropriate behavior; however, Franken has also apologized, unlike Moore.
More than Roy Moore, what Trump’s tweets call attention to is his own history. Not only has Trump faced accusations of sexual harassment (on various levels) from at least 16 women, but there is the matter of the infamous Access Hollywood tape from 2005, in which Trump boasted about sexually assaulting women.
“You know I’m automatically attracted to beautiful—I just start kissing them. It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t even wait. And when you’re a star they let you do it. You can do anything,” Trump said. He added: “Grab ’em by the pussy. You can do anything.”
Trump’s self-described actions—the nonconsensual kiss—are reminiscent of Franken’s, yet worse, including the remarks about grabbing a woman’s crotch. They’re also worse than Franken’s awful Stahl joke. Nor has Trump apologized for his remarks. “I’ve said and done things I regret, and the words released today on this more than a decade-old video are one of them,” he said at the time of the video’s release in October 2016. He also noted former President Bill Clinton’s history of sexual misconduct, both documented and alleged.
One might expect that weighing in on the wave of sexual-harassment accusations would hardly help Trump, since it only calls attention to his own misdeeds. The cognitive dissonance of seeing powerful men fall swiftly just months after Trump’s election remains difficult to resolve. The White House’s official position remains that all 16 women who have accused Trump are lying, yet the president is quick to give credence to other men’s accusers. Trump weighed in on Harvey Weinstein last month, saying he was not surprised, although by then the film producer was entirely without defenders.
Trump’s sanctimony on Franken draws what my colleague Adrienne LaFrance has called the “Harvey effect” closer to himself in the political realm. The president seems to be gambling that because his own history of sexual harassment has already been litigated, reopening it will not hurt him politically. The calculation is that he is immune not only to the standard rules of politics but also to the present moment in American culture—or, put another way, when you’re president, they let you do it.


If the ground beneath your feet feels cold, it’s because hell froze over the other day. It happened at 8:02 p.m. on Monday, when The New York Times published an op-ed called “I Believe Juanita.”  
Written by Michelle Goldberg, it was a piece that, 20 years ago, likely would have inflamed the readership of the paper and scandalized its editors. Reviewing the credibility of Broaddrick’s claim, Goldberg wrote that “five witnesses said she confided in them about the assault right after it happened,” an important standard in reviewing the veracity of claims of past sex crimes.
But Goldberg’s was not a single snowflake of truth; rather it was part of an avalanche of honesty in the elite press, following a seemingly innocuous tweet by the MSNBC host Chris Hayes. “As gross and cynical and hypocritical as the right’s ‘what about Bill Clinton’ stuff is,” he wrote, “it’s also true that Democrats and the center left are overdue for a real reckoning with the allegations against him.”
As gross and cynical and hypocrtical as the right's "what about Bill Clinton" stuff is, it's also true that Democrats and the center left are overdue for a real reckoning with the allegations against him.
What happened next can only be compared to the moment when Glinda the Good Witch of the North came to Munchkinland and told the little people that it was finally safe. Come out, come out, wherever you are!
The tweet galvanized not just the usual Clinton haters of Fox News but also a cadre of the most unexpected players: editors of the kind of prestige publications that have traditionally handled the accusations of Clinton’s accusers with nearly pathological disdain. But not this time. When Hayes’s tweet became a sensation, editors at the best shops gave marquee writers a radioactive assignment, which they gladly accepted. By midday Wednesday there was such a glut of “I Believe Juanita” pieces that Chelsea Clinton couldn’t have sold one.
Peter Baker of The New York Times wrote a story about this watershed moment that included the testimony of the liberal blogger Matthew Yglesias writing, “I think we got it wrong”; Jeff Greenfield of Politico observing that liberals could be having a “moral awakening”; and David Rothkopf, a former Clinton administration official, saying that even Monica Lewinsky—who never claimed she was abused in any way by Clinton—“deserves an apology from many of us she has never received.”
Enough time has passed that outing Clinton for his alleged sex crimes now has the same retro “Oh grow up” feeling as revealing that John F. Kennedy had lovers—nobody’s perfect. But let’s not fool ourselves. “I believe Juanita” doesn’t just mean that you’re generally in favor of believing women when they report sex crimes. It means you believe that for eight years our country was in the hands of a violent rapist.
Broaddrick’s account—now accepted not just by a vast right-wing conspiracy, but also by a gathering number of liberal writers—is of an attack as brutal and unambiguous as the worst of the alleged assaults by Harvey Weinstein. Clinton, she says, manipulated his way into her hotel room, threw her down on the bed, yanked off her pantyhose, and raped her. She says he bit her lip hard enough to leave it bloodied. “You better put some ice on that,” she remembers him telling her as he walked out the door, headed off to his important work of feeling other people’s pain.
When I have talked about these matters with progressives over the past week, I have encountered a fairly consistent response. It is no longer a frank denial of the weight and gravity of Broaddrick’s testimony. Rather it is a frustrated and dismissive statement of fact, one that can be reduced to the following formulation: I feel sorry for Juanita Broaddrick, but Bill Clinton was an excellent president. It’s a sentiment that encompasses the bitter and irreducible truth about being female in this world. There is sympathy for a rape victim—but she shouldn’t go around destroying a man’s reputation or family or career. Rape, unlike murder, is accepted as such an unremarkable fact of the human experience that a woman who spends years seeking redress for the crime comes to be viewed as some kind of lunatic, rejected lover, or tool of a vast conspiracy.
When three of Clinton’s principal accusers accepted Donald Trump’s invitation to sit front-row at a presidential debate, they were largely regarded by the left as a gallery of ghouls and liars. But that was politics, and an election was stake. Now—when all is lost—there’s been a change. The truth bats last.
Liberals seem almost giddy with relief, admitting what they believe—which is how it always feels when you finally decide that you’re going to say what you really think and to hell with the consequences. The truth does set you free, but it usually comes at a price, which is why it will probably take another 20 years to open The New York Times and read an editorial called “Hillary Knew.”
How could she not have known?  She’s a hugely intelligent woman, a visionary, and a political street fighter; someone who knows her way through a difficult thicket of legal explanations as well as someone who understands as well as anyone the insane tactics of the fringe right and the surprising number of people who are gullible enough to fall prey to them. She didn’t kill her friend Vince Foster; she wasn’t running a child-trafficking operation at the Comet Ping Pong pizzeria; and the Whitewater land deal was not the product of a white-collar crime on the scale of Enron’s pension thefts. Nor was she merely a machine politician lost in the wonkery of policy and unable to effect meaningful change.
As first lady, Hillary Clinton created a children’s health-insurance program that continues to provide health care to millions of American children; as a U.S. senator, she secured the billions of federal dollars necessary to right the great damage done to New York City and its residents after 9/11.  But in addition to these great and good works, she must have looked at the facts about Juanita Broaddrick and decided to put them in the same locked box where she kept the truth of Bill’s consensual affairs. As a wife, she had every right to do that. But as a Democratic candidate for president—one whose historic campaign was largely centered on the glass ceiling and the rise of women—she had a Grand Canyon–size vulnerability, as she learned a year before the general election when she blithely tweeted out this corker: “Every survivor of sexual assault deserves to be heard, believed, and supported.”
That’s our Hillary—and that’s the woman even some of her staunchest supporters have been gritting their teeth about for decades. (At least O. J. Simpson had the grace to spend a few months looking for “the real killer.”)  Hillary had put the many women who’d credibly accused her husband of sexual misconduct into the forgetting hole and forgotten that women—progressive women and conservative women alike—have a very different view of rape and assault than they did 20 years ago. We don’t send victims who lack a police report or a photograph of their bruises to the back of the line. We understand that rape is so violent and so scarring that it can take years for a woman to come forward to describe it. We understand that—as with the women now accusing the U.S. Senate candidate Roy Moore of sex crimes—it can take an abuser’s rise to greater fame and power to prompt them to stand up for themselves and tell the painful truth.
Donald Trump, as a presidential candidate, posed the greatest existential threat to progressive goals and values of the past half century. He also had a long string of women come forward with very credible accounts of sexual harassment and misconduct. A different Democratic candidate would have cut him off at the knees for that, but Hillary had to be careful because of her husband’s past and because of her own widely believed complicity in helping to marginalize and silence his accusers.  
So maybe, in the end, she’s one more casualty of the truly vast conspiracy: the one that swings into action every time a woman stands up—usually alone, and almost always afraid—and says, “He raped me.”


Before this month, Roy Moore was best known nationally for refusing to remove a Ten Commandments monument from the Alabama state supreme-court building. Now, the aspiring senator is accused of hitting on teens at an Alabama mall and inappropriately touching a 14-year-old girl.
These allegations may be the end of Moore. Congressional Republicans have started disowning him, and he’s tentatively dropping in state polls. But it’s possible that the reputation of evangelical Christians will also suffer. Despite condemnations from a number of nationally prominent Christian leaders and a few in Alabama, many of the state’s faithful continue to back the controversial candidate.
To outsiders, the support might seem like a stark contradiction in values. Even to insiders, it can seem that way. “I’m … bothered,” wrote William S. Brewbaker III, a law professor at the University of Alabama, in The New York Times, “by what Mr. Moore’s popularity says about the sorry state of evangelical Christianity.”
The Evangelical Reckoning Over Donald Trump
The Moore scandal is part of a long history of complicated sexual politics in the Christian world. In her new book, Moral Combat, the Washington University in St. Louis professor Marie Griffith writes about American Christians’ battles over sexual harassment, birth control, and gender roles. This fall’s wave of sexual-assault accusations has often seemed to echo the past, bringing to mind Anita Hill’s accusations about Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas and Paula Jones’s allegations against former President Bill Clinton. Incidents like these, Griffith writes, all get tied up in the distinctive sexual politics of the Christian world.
The book—which covers much more than sexual-harassment scandals, including everything from Margaret Sanger’s legacy at Planned Parenthood to Alfred Kinsey’s obsession with clergy—comes out in December. Our conversation has been edited for length and clarity.
Emma Green: What is up with evangelicals justifying Roy Moore assaulting a 14-year-old as a 30-something?
Marie Griffith: I think what we’re seeing is an extreme politicization of Christianity. It almost does not feel like the evangelical tradition of a generation ago. I don’t want to overstate that, of course—there’s plenty that’s still evangelicalism. But it has become so focused on power.
It looks like hypocrisy to the outside world. I’m not sure I quite see it as hypocrisy, but I do see it as a real politicization of the tradition.
Green: Sexual harassment has long been used as a political tool—just take the cases of Paula Jones and Anita Hill. How did harassment become so weaponized?
Griffith: Conservative Christians rallied around Clarence Thomas and suggested there was nothing believable about Anita Hill’s charges. But with Paula Jones, they came to her defense, legally and financially. Even without judging the truth or falsity of either claim, you can see that a political reaction was at work.
Green: I’ve been thinking a lot about which women’s stories are considered legitimate. Anita Hill was part of the Christian world—she was on faculty at Oral Roberts University. And yet there was a wholesale effort to delegitimize what she was saying.
“We forget how primed we are to believe or disbelieve a story depending on who is telling it.”
The women in Alabama who have accused Roy Moore are probably also fairly conservative, and might be Christians. Why are some claims doubted and systematically undermined by conservatives, even when they’re made by Christian women?
Griffith: Maybe it really does come down, even unconsciously, to politics. I hate to make people sound so calculating, but in some ways, that is what it seems.
Those who were already supportive of Clarence Thomas were primed not to believe in any sort of moral failing. By the time Hill’s story became public and widely known, there had already been great controversy over his nomination and very strong support coming from the conservative Christian world. There wasn’t a frame in that world except to disbelieve the story she told.
On the other hand, with Paula Jones, when her story came to light, there was already tremendous hatred of Bill Clinton, and of Hillary Clinton, too, in those same conservative Christian circles. So they’re primed to believe a story from their hatred of him.
In some ways, we forget how primed we are, politically, to believe or disbelieve a story depending on who is telling it.
Green: How did sexual politics become so central to religious discourse in the United States? Why do we have such an obsession with sexual morality?
Griffith: That’s the question that stirred me to write this book. Why sex?
The Bible has things to say about sex. But for Jesus, in the New Testament, it’s not a major thing at all. He’s far more concerned with feeding the poor and caring for those in need. When you look back over the last century of Christian argumentation and political concern, however, it’s had a lot more to do with sex than with caring for the poor.
That’s not to say that Christians don’t care for the poor—they do in all sorts of ways. But the motivating concerns are sex, birth control, obscenity and censorship laws, sex education in public schools, and even abortion, which has a lot to do with sex and sexual morality.
I think it’s a lot about women and gender roles, and wanting to hold onto traditional gender norms. These battles have been fought over and over again on that territory, about conserving the home and traditional family values.
Green: The standard narrative on the left is that conservative Christian sexual politics are all about keeping women from having power. For example: Linda Greenhouse recently wrote a New York Times column arguing that the Trump administration has pushed back on the birth-control mandate in the Affordable Care Act because they don’t want to normalize women’s empowerment.
Your research seems to lead to a slightly more nuanced conclusion. How would you address this pervasive claim that conservative Christians just hate women?
Griffith: Oh, I don’t think it is about Christians hating women, at all. I do think it’s about power relations. But I also think it’s about a specific vision of America as a nation. There’s still this sense that God has an exceptional destiny for the United States—it’s different and higher than any other nation’s destiny on earth. And there is something about changing moral norms and sexual practices, and women’s empowerment, that seems to threaten that.
“In some ways, we seem farther apart in agreeing on sexual rules than we ever have before.”
Green: What are the deeper notions about sex, sexuality, gender, and body at work here?
Griffith: Notions of purity have been very important for Christians throughout history, including sexual purity and virginity.
Men’s virginity has never been a deep subject of reflection. It comes up, kind of like, “Yeah, yeah, men should be sexually pure, too.” But female virginity and purity has been such a strong theme, and a source of attraction in some way. There’s this desire for the sexually pure, girlish model of womanhood.
When you think about the charges against Roy Moore, and instances of pedophilia in different contexts—not just Christian contexts by any stretch—I wonder how that desire for this kind of virginal girl gets twisted.
Green: Conservative sexual politics aren’t just about men pushing an agenda and women acting as passive victims. Many women over time have stood up for traditional sexual norms and gender roles, and have faced off against one another on either side of the debate.
Griffith: Yes. Thousands upon thousands of women opposed women’s suffrage. Many women in conservative Christian settings have celebrated notions of purity and male authority.
After the 1960s, you have the rise not just of Jerry Falwell and the Moral Majority, but of Phyllis Schlafly, who was every bit as powerful and persuasive as Falwell. She had a huge female audience.
You had Beverly LaHaye. You had Anita Bryant. These women were extremely beloved; they were Christian celebrities in the 1970s. They all preached very directly about sexual morality and women needing to fulfill their godly roles as women, which meant needing to be submissive to their husbands. That’s a powerful message.
Green: Issues of sex and sexuality are still so charged and divisive—we’re talking about these topics just as much as we ever have. Do you think this will continue?
Griffith: None of the issues I write about are resolved. Even issues we once thought were settled, such as birth-control access, are back in the public conversation. In some ways, we seem farther apart in agreeing on sexual rules than we ever have before.
We are still trying to steer around these issues. Some things are changing: Attitudes around homosexuality have shifted so dramatically in just a generation, which is really quite astonishing. But there is something about sex and gender rules and gender norms that remains right at the center of our political debates, I think, and probably will for some time to come.


President Trump returned from his 12-day trip to Asia Tuesday night, with few major gaffes to answer for but few accomplishments to show for it, either—a fact he underscored with a strange “what I did on my fall vacation” speech Wednesday that failed to produce the “major” announcement he’d promised.
Trump headed out on his trip shortly after Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s first indictments and guilty plea, and the administration expressed some concern about that. “He worries about his ability to negotiate with various entities and how much he’s hamstrung by this,” a senior White House official told CNN, adding that Trump felt he’d be in a better position once the investigation was resolved.
How a Non-Incumbent GOP Winner in Virginia Stayed Above Water
Unfortunately for Trump, that could be months or years down the line. How will that affect his ability to conduct foreign policy? The record of previous presidents facing probes like Mueller’s shows that in fact they have turned to global affairs as a forum where they can make a difference and get things done even as domestic politics becomes a gridlocked nightmare for them. But they’ve relied on having a competent and carefully compartmentalized staff, and even so, the presence of an investigation can reduce what an administration can achieve.
“You can get work done, and you can make progress,” says David Gergen, who worked in the Nixon White House during Watergate and then in the Clinton White House during the early days of the Whitewater probe. “Investigations can weaken the White House, but you have to convince everybody else to keep working. I think it’s extremely important that everybody keep their bearings, that they’re not panicked, they’re not lashing out.”
But that sort of message control, and staff control, has been beyond the abilities of the Trump team since the start, making it even more challenging for them to achieve now. Moreover, the task of keeping an even keel starts with a firm hand on the helm—and this White House has struggled to cope with a president whose announcements often take his own staff by surprise. Nixon’s temper was legendary; Clinton, Gergen recalls, was prone to volcanic but short-lived outbursts, but he too was largely predictable. By contrast, “the present White House doesn’t have any sense of what the current president is going to say or do next.”
Nixon and Clinton were not alone in facing special-prosecutor investigations—Ronald Reagan did as well, for Iran-Contra. But that case is perhaps less useful as an analogue. For one, it concerned the conduct of foreign affairs, circumscribing the president from global moves in a different way. For another, although Reagan achieved few major things after the start of the Iran-Contra affair, he was also deep in his second term, a point at which presidents often achieve little anyway.
Both Nixon and Clinton viewed foreign affairs as a place where they could make a difference—both in the world and in their political standing—even as they lost traction domestically. Congress and the political press were consumed with their scandals, but overseas, the executive branch could work largely on its own.
It helped that both Nixon and Clinton invested a great deal of effort in foreign affairs. Nixon was the most traveled president up to that time, setting the precedent for the frequent-flying commander in chief, and had built genuine relationships with many of his counterparts abroad. In August 1973, a New York Times survey of foreign leaders found that “although foreign leaders and public figures now seem to take the Watergate scandal more seriously than they did a few months ago, the affair has not so far cut deeply into their widespread support for Mr. Nixon’s course in foreign policy,” and that “there has been no sign that Watergate has crippled any ongoing negotiations or otherwise set back normal diplomatic business.”
Speaking to the Miller Center at the University of Virginia in 2005, Clinton’s national-security adviser, Sandy Berger, recalled a feeling of solidarity during the Monica Lewinsky scandal.
“The president received a lot of support from foreign leaders during this period. They were somewhat mystified,” Berger said. “I think most foreign leaders are the subject of attack for some reason or another. Maybe there was a certain identification with the siege that Clinton was under and feeling that they, not necessarily for a similar kind of transgression, but that they had felt the brunt of an angry press and an angry Congress and could understand what Clinton was going through.”
Since Clinton was under investigation for most of his presidency, nearly everything he did in foreign affairs—from the Balkan wars to the Good Friday agreement—came under the cloud of Whitewater. Nixon’s list was shorter, but during Watergate his administration helped negotiate peace after the Yom Kippur War, brought about an end to the Arab oil embargo, and even conducted a triumphant foreign trip in the last months before his resignation.
Every political advantage brings a corresponding political weakness, and both Nixon and Clinton encountered the downside of turning abroad: Critics accused them of trying to use global affairs to distract from their political troubles. In October 1973, four days after the “Saturday Night Massacre,” and two weeks after Vice President Spiro Agnew’s resignation, Nixon ordered a global military alert, ostensibly in response to Soviet military movements, though critics viewed it as an attempt at distraction.
In August 1998, when Clinton ordered anti-terror air strikes in Sudan and Afghanistan, many observers compared it to the plot of the 1997 movie Wag the Dog and claimed they were misdirected, something Clinton and his aides have always denied. “People ask me how the Lewinsky thing affected me in foreign policy; it didn’t at all,” former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright told the Miller Center in 2006. “Except for people thinking that responding to the embassy bombings was Wag the Dog.”
Both Nixon and Clinton benefited from the ability to delegate, which created some separation between the scandals and their international relations, and strong staff work. As early as April 1973, Nixon was complaining about how much time Watergate consumed. “Well, I’ll hear about it a lot but I’ve got to run the country,” he said, in a conversation captured by his infamous taping system. After H.R. Haldeman’s resignation, Nixon hired General Al Haig to be his chief of staff, and Haig is credited with bringing order to the White House. Nixon also had in Secretary of State Henry Kissinger an aide who could (for good or ill) basically run the nation’s foreign-policy apparatus without much input from the president. While Kissinger attributed many decisions to the president, Stephen Stathis of the Congressional Research Service wrote that few observers believed that anyone other than Kissinger was running the show.
Albright reported that Clinton, in contrast, remained heavily involved in foreign-affairs issues, even at the height of his impeachment, and was able to compartmentalize his presidential work from his legal troubles. “I think that some of the domestic staff probably had times when he would scream at them and stuff,” she told the Miller Center. “I never had that. I saw him a lot, but I didn’t go in there every single day because I was on the road.”
Even so, these diplomats found that domestic scandals did sometimes disadvantage them. Kissinger later admitted that in the closing months of Nixon’s presidency, foreign leaders were wary of making agreements with the U.S. They could see that Nixon was likely headed for either conviction or resignation, making him a lame duck.
“Every negotiation was getting more and more difficult because it involved the question of whether we could, in fact, carry out what we were negotiating,” Kissinger said. “Secondly, we were not in a position to press matters that might involve serious domestic disputes.” This was felt particularly in the Strategic Arms Limitations Talks II, where Kissinger said the U.S. negotiating position was undercut. (A treaty was eventually signed, in 1979, but never entered effect, because the U.S. pulled out following the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.)
If Trump wishes to emulate the successes of his predecessors, he has his work cut out for him.
First, while Trump’s White House shares some of the same weaknesses that plagued both Nixon and Clinton’s West Wings—chaos, backstabbing, factionalism—the current administration has taken these tendencies to new levels. Trump struggled to get much done even before the Mueller probe, though he has been dealing with implications of the Russia matter since he took office. Gergen said the current White House chief of staff was making strides, comparing him to Haig—“the John Kelly of his time”—but the West Wing remains in a state of nearly constant turnover. Investigations often breed greater paranoia and paralysis among administration staff who are worried about legal liability.
Unlike Nixon and Clinton, Trump doesn’t seem to have strong rapport with foreign leaders. He has gotten along well with France’s Emmanuel Macron, Japan’s Shinzo Abe, and Canada’s Justin Trudeau, but has not yet forged close, ongoing relationships with them; all three have material differences with him on matters of policy. He has not fared as well with Theresa May, who as British prime minister leads America’s closest ally, and his relations with German Chancellor Angela Merkel have been downright icy. A personal bond with Chinese President Xi Jinping has so far translated into little concrete action, even on North Korea, and Trump’s good relationships with leaders in Saudi Arabia and the Philippines show little prospect for producing major global breakthroughs.
Trump also doesn’t have a strong staff in place that can keep their heads down and work on their jobs, nor lieutenants he can trust. He has repeatedly undercut Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, making it very clear to foreign leaders that Tillerson does not speak for the president. Meanwhile, the lower ranks of his administration remain empty. This is especially true at the State Department, and when Laura Ingraham asked Trump about it earlier this month, he was dismissive.
“Let me tell you, the one that matters is me,” he said. “I’m the only one that matters, because when it comes to it, that’s what the policy is going to be. You’ve seen that, you’ve seen it strongly.”
The disinclination to delegate dates back to his business days, when he could work with a lean staff and still get a great deal done, though as his struggles in office indicate, the presidency doesn’t work that way. While the Mueller probe certainly doesn’t help, the failure to pick and to empower aides may hamstring Trump’s foreign policy more than any investigation ever could.


Andrew Anglin spent his formative years flirting with hippie progressivism, then tried his hand at becoming a tribal hunter-gatherer. But he only achieved notoriety after he founded the Daily Stormer, the world's biggest website for neo-Nazis. Anglin and his mob of followers have terrorized people around the world, and their influence has been cited by the perpetrators of fatal violence.
What lessons should be learned from Anglin's radicalization? And what is society's best response to his ideas? Luke O'Brien and Rosie Gray join Jeff and Matt to discuss these questions, and how far-right extremism is evolving.Links:
- "The Making of an American Nazi" (Luke O'Brien, December 2017)
- "The Lost Boys" (Angela Nagle, December 2017)
- "How 2015 Fueled The Rise Of The Freewheeling, White Nationalist Alt-Movement" (Rosie Gray, BuzzFeed, 12/27/2015)
- "Behind the Internet's Anti-Democracy Movement" (Rosie Gray, 2/10/2017)
- "The Alt-Right's Rebranding Effort Has Failed" (Rosie Gray, 8/13/2017)
- "What Gwen Ifill Knew About Race in America" (Jeffrey Goldberg, 11/18/2016)
- "Joan Didion Doesn't Owe the World Anything" (Megan Garber, 10/29/2017)
- NoSleep Subreddit | Podcast


Federal prosecutors didn’t have a great day on Thursday. In Newark, New Jersey, a judge declared a mistrial in the case of Senator Bob Menendez, the Democrat who was accused of taking gifts from a donor in exchange for government favors. The jury was deadlocked, though one member said 10 of the 12 jurors were in favor of acquittal.
Meanwhile, a short train ride away in Manhattan, another federal judge declared another mistrial, this time in the case of Norman Seabrook, a former New York City correction officers’ union chief who was on trial for funneling members’ pension funds into a high-risk investment scheme in exchange for kickbacks. That jury also deadlocked.
Has the Supreme Court Legalized Public Corruption?
Even if neither Menendez nor Seabrook broke the law, neither situation feels good. Menendez and Salomon Melgen were good friends; Melgen paid for private jet flights and vacations for Menendez; and Menendez intervened on Melgen’s behalf in government, for example by calling diplomats to try to help Melgen’s girlfriends get visas to the United States. The question was whether these were illegal official favors bought and paid for by Melgen’s gifts, or were simply favors.
Seabrook, meanwhile, was accused of taking a cut in exchange for sending pension funds to a high-risk investment fund. Jurors couldn’t decide, but Seabrook’s high-rolling lifestyle, on a $300,000 salary, and his role as a crucial impediment to reform at New York’s deeply troubled Rikers Island prison, didn’t require court adjudication.
Prosecutors say they will try Seabrook again; it’s unclear whether Menendez will face another trial, though the 10-2 deadlock can’t be encouraging to the government. Meanwhile, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Thursday called for a Senate Ethics Committee probe of Menendez. “Senator Menendez was indicted on numerous federal felonies,” McConnell said in a statement. “He is one of only twelve U.S. senators to have been indicted in our history.”
If both men go free, however, they will be the latest examples in an emerging trend: People around the world, and Americans in particular, seem to be living through a golden age of corruption.
One could date the trend inside the U.S. to June 2016, when the Supreme Court overturned the corruption conviction of former Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell. It’s not that the justices found that McDonnell hadn’t done the things for which he was convicted; it’s that they decided that his favors on behalf of a friend who gave him more than $175,000 in gifts didn’t constitute legal corruption. As my colleague Matt Ford explained, the McDonnell decision played a key role in the Menendez case, with the judge nearly throwing the whole case out because of the Supreme Court’s verdict.
Since then, prosecutors have been stymied over and over. As U.S. attorney in Manhattan, Preet Bharara made his name racking up corruption convictions for major New York state politicians, including Sheldon Silver, the Democratic speaker of the New York State Assembly, and Dean Skelos, his Republican counterpart in the State Senate. In March, President Trump fired Bharara, despite having previously told him he would stay on. In July, Silver’s conviction was overturned, and two months later, so was Skelos’s.
The moment is not restrained to the U.S.—it is international, or perhaps more rightly transnational. Earlier this month, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists revealed a tranche of documents they called the Paradise Papers, a follow-up to the blockbuster 2015 Panama Papers. But in comparison, the Paradise Papers seemed to land with much less impact. That’s not because the behavior described in the Paradise Papers is necessarily less egregious; perhaps the problem is that the public is so news-saturated that fatigue prevented greater focus.
The documents implicated Queen Elizabeth II in dubious investments in the Cayman Islands, a notorious tax shelter. Apple, having remonstrated that it was not hiding its cash “on some Caribbean island,” devised a scheme to hide its cash on Jersey, an island in the English Channel, instead.
Wilbur Ross, the secretary of commerce, came out looking especially bad. When he entered the Trump administration, Ross kept an investment in a shipping company with close ties to the Kremlin and a Vladimir Putin crony facing sanctions. He disclosed the existence of the investment partnership during the confirmation process, but not that the partnership was invested in the shipping company. Forbes, which had long featured Ross on its list of the richest people, announced that having reviewed new documents it no longer believed he was even a billionaire.
Of course, there’s corruption around the world. The New York Times has published a series of articles on how Vladimir Putin has enriched himself and his friends as Russian president. The cartoonishly gauche former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi on Thursday won a judgment against his ex-wife, with a court ruling a divorce settlement had been too generous to her.
What accounts for this boom time in the corruption industry? It isn’t necessarily that the world is more corrupt than it has been; wherever there’s a buck, or pound, or dirham, or ruble to be made, someone’s going to try to make it. Nonetheless, it feels like the bad actors are getting away with it more at this moment.
Legal precedents like the McDonnell case are one part of the equation. So are ever looser campaign-finance laws, which allow larger infusions of money from individuals and groups, and make it easier to shroud the source of that money. As the Paradise Papers show, the globalized, digital world and an arms race of clever tax-sheltering strategies make it easier for the wealthy to find ways to stash their cash in questionable ways, often undetected—until big leaks like the Panama and Paradise papers. And with wealth around the world increasingly concentrated in the hands of a narrow elite, there’s more demand to shelter it.
There’s one more glaring factor within the United States, though: the president. Without necessarily breaking any laws—he has neither been charged nor convicted of having done so—Donald Trump has set a tone that makes the social environment more friendly to corrupt behavior.
It’s not just a matter of the many scandals that dogged him as a private citizen. After his election, Trump refused to put his assets into the customary blind trust that officeholders use, instead creating an arrangement that still gave him significant visibility into his assets, and which most ethics experts dismissed as wholly inadequate. (Since then, his son Eric Trump has suggested in interviews that his father speaks to him about the Trump Organization, despite a pledge of distance.) In several ways, Trump appears to be benefiting financially from his role as president. He has been sued for violating the Constitution’s emoluments clause, and his Trump Hotel has become a hotspot for GOP fundraising and a destination for foreign diplomats eager to curry favor with the government.
Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser Jared Kushner may also have mixed his own business with the public’s. Kushner met with the Russian state-owned Vnesheconombank (VEB) in December. VEB says the meeting concerned the Kushner family’s private real-estate business, while Kushner says he attended in an official, diplomatic capacity. Though Kushner left the business, his sister was later found to have been using his name in presentations overseas.
Trump picked Ross as his commerce secretary, of course. He also appointed fellow New York businessman Carl Icahn to a nebulous advisory role, which a New Yorker report strongly suggested Icahn used to enrich himself. (Icahn resigned as the story went to press, and he is now under federal investigation.) Late last month, meanwhile, special counsel Robert Mueller indicted two Trump campaign officials, former campaign chair Paul Manafort and his aide Rick Gates, accusing them of devising a $75 million money-laundering scheme.
There are many reasons why prosecutors are struggling to convict people who they accuse of corruption, and each case has its own unique dynamic. It’s difficult to imagine that the ground will shift significantly as long as the executive branch of the federal government is acting with such indifference to the appearance of clean hands.


A New Jersey jury handed federal prosecutors a serious defeat on Thursday by deadlocking on whether to convict Democratic Senator Bob Menendez after a nine-week bribery trial, an outcome that could signal a rough road ahead for federal efforts to prove public corruption.
At the heart of the case was Menendez’s relationship with Salomon Melgen, a wealthy Florida ophthalmologist and frequent donor to the senator. Prosecutors charged both men with bribery under what they called a “stream of benefits” theory: They contended that—taken together—a flow of gifts and donations to Menendez and a parallel string of senatorial favors to Melgen functioned as a malign quid pro quo exchange.
Has the Supreme Court Legalized Public Corruption?
Menendez and Melgen offered a far different version of events to the jury. In their recounting, the two men were nothing more than close friends. The gifts flowed naturally as part of that bond, defense lawyers argued, and Menendez’s interventions on Melgen’s behalf came out of courtesy, not corruption. The strategy worked: Ten jurors voted in favor of acquittal and two in favor of conviction, forcing a mistrial. The result was a victory for Menendez, but its consequences could signal a broader shift for public-integrity cases.
Noah Bookbinder, the executive director of ethics-watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, said he wasn’t surprised by the trial’s outcome. He pointed to a series of recent Supreme Court rulings in campaign-finance and corruption cases, including last year’s unanimous decision in McDonnell v. United States.
“The Supreme Court has really gutted the federal corruption laws and bribery law and really narrowed what counts as corruption,” he told me. “Given that, it is much harder to get a conviction than it used to be for conduct that I think most of us would look at as corrupt.”
In McDonnell, the justices overturned bribery convictions for former Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell and his wife. Both of them received lavish gifts from a Virginia businessman, and federal prosecutors said McDonnell had in turn set up meetings for him and given preferential treatment. But the Court rejected the government’s effort, concluding that McDonnell’s actions didn’t qualify as an “official act” under federal bribery law. The Justice Department declined to pursue a retrial. Menendez challenged his indictment on similar grounds as McDonnell, arguing he never used the formal powers of his position to benefit Melgen.
The McDonnell ruling seems to be vexing federal prosecutors who have to clear an increasingly high bar to prove wrongdoing, a trend that the Menendez mistrial could exacerbate. It may already be making them more hesitant to bring big cases against big politicians. “The result of that is that we’re seeing fewer corruption convictions, convictions being overturned, and conduct that is really not the kind of conduct that we want from our elected officials going unpunished,” said Bookbinder, who previously worked in the Justice Department’s Public Integrity Section.
Compared with other recent federal corruption cases, the case against Menendez faced additional challenges. Randall Eliason, a George Washington University law professor and former federal prosecutor, said it lacked a “smoking gun” proving criminal intent. “In McDonnell, you had the guy that was paying the bribes testify as the government’s star witness, and they gave him immunity,” he said. “But here you didn’t have that, so you’re just asking the jury to infer the corrupt agreement based on the timing.”
The apparent friendship between Menendez and Melgen also complicated the prosecution’s efforts to depict an improper exchange of goods and favors between the two men. “If they had not been friends, the case would have been a lot stronger, but I think the fact that they were these longtime friends allowed the defense to inject some reasonable doubt about really why all of this was going on,” Eliason said.
Other high-profile corruption cases faced setbacks over the past year. In New York, federal judges tossed out the convictions of former State Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver in July and former State Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos in September on McDonnell-related grounds. Federal prosecutors said they would seek retrials in both cases. A federal judge in Louisiana also tossed out most of the corruption-related charges against former congressman William Jefferson, citing the Supreme Court’s decision.
Federal prosecutors typically retry a high-profile case like Menendez’s at least once, Eliason said, unless something fundamentally affects their confidence in their underlying argument. The Justice Department remained tightlipped about its future steps shortly after the mistrial was announced. “The Department of Justice appreciates the jury’s service in this lengthy trial. The department will carefully consider next steps in this important matter and report to the court at the appropriate time,” a representative said in a statement.
“I think a lopsided outcome will certainly give them something to think about, and they might think about streamlining it or shifting their presentation somehow, but I’d be surprised if they decided not to retry it,” Eliason added.
The mistrial also spares Democrats from temporarily losing a Senate seat. If Menendez had been convicted and resigned before New Jersey Governor Chris Christie leaves office in January, Christie would have been empowered to appoint a Republican replacement, bolstering the party’s razor-thin majority in the upper chamber. Still, for Menendez, the political fallout is expected to continue even after the jury’s deadlock; GOP leaders have demanded a Senate Ethics Committee investigation into the New Jersey senator’s behavior.
“Senator Menendez was indicted on numerous federal felonies,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said in a statement Thursday. “He is one of only 12 U.S. senators to have been indicted in our history. His trial shed light on serious accusations of violating the public’s trust as an elected official, as well as potential violations of the Senate’s Code of Conduct.”
Speaking to reporters outside the courthouse where the judge had declared a mistrial, Menendez was nothing but triumphant. “To those New Jerseyans who gave me the benefit of the doubt, I thank you,” he said. “To those who were digging my political grave so they could jump into my seat, I know who you are, and I won’t forget you.”


The House voted to approve the Republican tax bill. Leeann Tweeden, a radio host, accused Minnesota Senator Al Franken of forcibly kissing and groping her in 2006. In response, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, along with a number of Democrats, called for a review of the allegations by the Senate Ethics Committee. Alabama Republican Party Chairman Terry Lathan said the party will stand by Senate candidate Roy Moore, despite sexual-misconduct allegations against him, adding that they “trust the Alabama voters” to make a decision. A judge declared a mistrial in the corruption case of New Jersey Senator Bob Menendez.
I Was Just Kidding: On Thursday, Minnesota Senator Al Franken apologized for a photo where he appears to be pretending to grope a woman's breasts, saying “it was clearly intended to be funny but wasn't.” It’s an excuse used all too often. (David Sims)
A ‘Whopping’ Legal Problem: Donald Trump Jr.’s private messages with WikiLeaks are evidence that the campaign garnered support from an organization linked to Russia—which is a direct breach of campaign-finance rules. (Bob Bauer)
Kicking the Can: Democrats are united in their response to sexual-misconduct allegations against Senator Al Franken: Let the Ethics Committee decide. (Elaine Godfrey)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

A Stubborn Candidate: Roy Moore’s refusal to quit the Alabama Senate race exposes just how powerless the national Republican Party is. (Tarini Parti, Henry J. Gomez, and Alexis Levinson, Buzzfeed)
In Crowd, Out Crowd: Karl Rove is the embodiment of the Republican establishment, and that’s exactly why Steve Bannon wants to take him down. (Susan B. Glasser, The New Yorker)
They Have Hope: Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation is leading up to an interview with someone who just might hold the key to the Russia puzzle: longtime Trump aide Hope Hicks. (Darren Samuelsohn, Politico)
Exposed: The BBC reports the details of a secret pact in Raqqa that allowed hundreds of Islamic State fighters to escape. (Quentin Sommerville and Riam Dalati)
Behind the Money: On Capitol Hill, more than $15 million has been paid to victims through an office that handles harassment complaints. Here’s what we know about the money. (MJ Lee, Sunlen Serfaty, and Juana Summers, CNN)
Accusations, Plotted on a Timeline: This is how eight alleged encounters of harassment overlapped with Roy Moore’s life. (Philip Bump, The Washington Post)
In this dispatch from Seattle, The Atlantic’s Olga Khazan describes the city’s plans to open a new safe-injection facility for heroin addicts in an attempt to make it safer for them to quit. But critics say it actually makes it easier for users to stay addicted.
Do you think this is an effective strategy for addressing the country’s escalating opioid epidemic? Do you see it as necessary—or as enabling?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Lena Felton (@lenakfelton), Taylor Hosking (@Taylor__Hosking), and Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


Let the Ethics Committee decide.
That’s the message Senate Democrats sent Thursday in response to a report that one of their own, Minnesota lawmaker Al Franken, forcibly kissed and groped a woman in 2006.
'Al Franken Kissed and Groped Me Without My Consent'
On Thursday morning, KABC news anchor Leeann Tweeden wrote in a post on her Los Angeles radio station’s website that Franken kissed her against her will while rehearsing a skit during a 2006 USO trip to Kuwait, Iraq, and Afghanistan. She included a photo that appears to show the lawmaker groping or pretending to grope her breasts while she’s asleep.
Franken apologized to Tweeden in an initial statement, writing that the photo was “clearly intended to be funny but wasn’t.” Later in the morning, he released a longer message, writing: “I respect women. I don’t respect men who don’t. And the fact that my own actions have given people a good reason to doubt that makes me feel ashamed.”
Franken’s colleagues have so far been unified in kicking the matter to the Ethics Committee, a consequence first suggested by Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, but one that also allows Democrats to at least temporarily avoid a politically, and perhaps personally, difficult decision: whether to call on Franken to resign. McConnell said in a statement Thursday that the committee should “review the matter.” “Regardless of party,” the Republican continued, “harassment and assault are completely unacceptable—in the workplace or anywhere else.”
The Franken incident follows in the wake of allegations against Roy Moore, the Alabama Republican Senate candidate accused of pursuing teenage girls while in his 30s. At least two women have also accused Moore of sexual assault. In reaction to those claims, congressional Democrats have repeatedly told Moore to get out of the race. While the Franken case is markedly different, it nevertheless puts Democrats on the defensive at a time when sexual impropriety in both parties is a subject of public interest.
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said he “hope[s] and expect[s] that the Ethics Committee will fully investigate this troubling incident, as they should with any credible allegation of sexual harassment.” Senator Amy Klobuchar, Franken’s fellow Minnesota Democrat, added that “this should not have happened to Leeann Tweeden.” New York Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, who introduced a bill on Wednesday to reform how sexual harassment is handled on Capitol Hill, called the account “deeply concerning,” and said “the Ethics Committee deserves answers from Senator Franken.”
Similarly, Senator Patty Murray told reporters that she is “glad Al came out and apologized, but that doesn’t reverse what he’s done or end the matter.” In a statement, Illinois Senator Dick Durbin wrote that “there is never an excuse for this behavior—ever. What Senator Franken did was wrong.” And Durbin’s fellow Illinoisan, Tammy Duckworth, called for the public to “support” women who come forward with stories like Tweeden’s: “Women across America should be able to feel safe in their workplace.” In reference to Franken’s past work as an entertainer—he famously wrote for and appeared on Saturday Night Live—Missouri Democrat Claire McCaskill said that  “comedy is no excuse for inappropriate conduct.”
The Ethics Committee, made up of three Republicans and three Democrats, is responsible for investigating any violations of the body’s ethics rules, but it rarely issues sanctions. In 2016, it received 63 allegations of violations, none of which resulted in disciplinary action. According to its own annual reports, the panel has not issued disciplinary sanctions against anyone in nine years.


Updated on November 16 at 2:20 p.m. ET
House Republicans on Thursday approved legislation overhauling the U.S. tax code, slashing rates for corporations while more modestly cutting taxes for individuals, and scaling back a host of popular deductions and exemptions.
And they did it without so much as a hint of drama.
The party-line, 227-205 vote is a victory for President Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan, who took a major step toward enacting their top domestic priority and salvaging what has been a lackluster first year of unified Republican power in Washington.
What was most surprising about Thursday’s result, however, was how easy it was.
There was no last-minute arm-twisting or back-room buy offs, no desperate calls from the president to wavering lawmakers, no 11th-hour amendments. The vote occurred on schedule, and when Trump trekked to Capitol Hill for a final pep talk with GOP lawmakers on Thursday, his visit seemed oddly perfunctory. Just 13 Republicans voted against the measure, leaving a comfortable buffer for the party leadership even without a single vote from Democrats.
The drama in the drive for tax cuts will surely come later in the process, either as Senate Republicans try to steer their proposal through a narrower majority or when the two chambers negotiate a final version to send to Trump’s desk. The Senate bill is already teetering, with one Republican senator opposed and others voicing concerns. The GOP bill can lose no more than two senators to advance, and it received more bad news when the Joint Committee on Taxation found that the proposal would raise taxes on middle-class families in several years, compared to current law, once many of its cuts expire.
But for one day, Republicans exalted in an initial vote that was months, if not years, in the making. Unlike the party’s shaky attempts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act earlier this year, the success on Thursday suggested that the leadership’s more inclusive and deliberative approach to the tax overhaul had paid off.  “I think we sent a message to the doubters and the critics,” Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy said.
The largest bloc of opposition came from members representing states that would be hit hardest by the proposal’s elimination of the deduction for state and local income taxes. All but one of the defectors on Thursday came from New York, New Jersey, or California, and they included Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee and a veteran lawmaker who could face a tough reelection fight next year. Several Republicans complained that their districts were being left out of the party’s tax cut altogether. “I didn't come to Washington to raise taxes on my constituents and I do not plan to start today,” Representative Darrell Issa of California said. “It’s disappointing that the bill approved today will not provide the same tax relief to Californians as it does to the rest of the nation.”
But a compromise allowing for people to write off up to $10,000 in property taxes split the New York and New Jersey delegations, helping Republicans get the 218 votes they need. McCarthy of California was able to persuade most of his GOP colleagues in the California delegation to back the bill despite its anticipated impact on their constituents.
Desperation proved a unifying force, too. Across the party, Republicans argued that the risks of failure on both health care and taxes would doom the GOP in 2018, outweighing the political peril of voting for legislation that might not deliver the relief lawmakers assured their constituents would be coming.
Throughout the debate, Republicans have pointed to the overall benefits of the bill. It nearly doubles the standard deduction, lowers rates almost across the board, and expands the child tax credit. “Passing this bill is the single biggest thing we can do to grow the economy, restore opportunity, and help these middle income families who are struggling,” Ryan said in a floor speech closing the debate. “The average family at every income level gets a tax cut,” he added, pointing to a series of charts.
Yet Ryan and other Republicans often elided the fine print and the tradeoffs in the bill. It may technically reduce taxes at every level, but not everyone will see a tax cut, and millions in certain would see a tax increase over time because of the elimination of the personal exemption, limits on the mortgage-interest deduction, and the repeal of the state and local tax deduction.
Democrats assailed Republicans as both shady salesmen and hypocrites for approving legislation that would add, by one estimate, nearly $2 trillion to deficits over a decade after they spent eight years railing about the national debt when a Democrat was in the White House. “It is the most irresponsible bill that I will have been confronted with in the 37 years that I have been in the Congress of the United States,” said Representative Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the second-ranking Democrat, in a speech before the vote. “This bill, Mr. Speaker, is both reckless and feckless.”
“There is no courage in voting for this bill,” Hoyer continued. “Only a suspension of common sense and their now abandoned commitment to fiscal sustainability.”
Republicans forged ahead anyway, seizing an opportunity to make good on a longstanding campaign promise and advance legislation they believe will boost the economy and lift their political fortunes. “It’s a big shot in the arm,” Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma told me on Thursday. “It’s an accomplishment members can be proud of.”
Still, this was only one step in an arduous process, and the bill Republicans passed on Thursday may look a lot different from the one they ultimately consider as a final product. The House passed its legislation despite knowing that it will have to shrink to make it through the Senate’s complex budget rules. The Senate addressed the same problem in its own bill by sunsetting most of its tax cuts for individuals, but the change may draw opposition since it undercuts the GOP’s promise of prioritizing the middle class over corporations and the wealthy. The Senate bill also does not accept the House compromise on state and local tax deductions, or SALT; it eliminates the break entirely, which could cause an exodus of Republican votes in the House if that were to be in the final bill. “If that SALT thing doesn’t stay in, you better not bring it back here,” Cole warned on behalf of his colleagues. And the House bill does not repeal Obamacare’s individual mandate, which the Senate added to its proposal earlier this week.
Even as they rejoiced on Thursday, House Republicans kept a wary eye on their colleagues across the Capitol, who now have to pass a tax bill of their own. “We don’t believe they can afford, or will allow, another misstep like we had on health care,” Cole told me.


In August 2014, 15 months after she left prison, Tarra Simmons began her law degree at Seattle University. Just before she graduated this past summer, demoralizing news arrived: Her application to the Washington state bar had been rejected because of her past criminal convictions, and she wouldn’t be allowed to take the bar exam.                                                                    
“Individuals serve time incarcerated. One would think once they’d done that, we would welcome them back into society and facilitate their reentry,” Annette Clark, dean of Seattle’s law school, told me in an interview. “Because these are folks we need—I think we need Tarra Simmons as a lawyer.”
Simmons’ experience is common for aspiring attorneys with criminal records. In many states, they routinely have their applications delayed or rejected because of requirements that they demonstrate good moral character and fitness to practice law. In theory, and understandably, these policies are intended to protect the public from corrupt representation. That’s the Washington bar’s argument for keeping them in place: “Clients put a huge amount of trust and responsibility, unchecked, into the hands of their lawyers,” the bar’s chief regulatory counsel told me.
But the rules nevertheless create collateral punishments that can endure years after a person’s sentence formally ends and can hinder professional achievement among those who have already shown a capacity for rehabilitation. Reformers argue that even the most exceptional candidates have difficulty meeting state bars’ high and often ambiguous standards, shutting out potential lawyers who may know the legal system better than their peers.
There are similar restrictions throughout the working world. Members of the “ban the box” movement campaign to remove the common checkbox on employment forms that prompts applicants to disclose whether they have a criminal record. And Deborah Rhode, a Stanford Law School professor, estimates that nearly 30 percent of the American workforce must obtain an occupational license, which also typically has good-character requirements.
As with bar associations’ rules, these restrictions are ostensibly well-intended. But their relevance isn’t always clear. They apply to a variety of jobs depending on the state—from architects and midwives to radiographers and florists—regardless of whether a person’s crime is connected in some way to their chosen profession. Criminal records have influence on college and graduate-school admissions, too. In one recent high-profile case, Michelle Jones, who served 20 years in prison for her son’s murder, was initially admitted to Harvard’s history Ph.D program, but was ultimately rejected when department officials raised flags about her background.   
Simmons, a 40-year-old from Bremerton, Washington, has extensive experience with the lasting consequences of a criminal record. In 2001, she was given an eight-month sentence in county jail for felony assault charges; her roommates severely beat up a man who had sexually assaulted her, Simmons and her lawyers told me. In 2011, she was sentenced to 30 months for drug delivery, drug possession, and possession of a gun, which police found in the trunk of her rental car. Simmons had become addicted to methamphetamines after her father’s death in 2010, and she shoplifted, gambled, and sold prescription drugs to fund her drug use. “It was just a downward spiral from there,” she said. “I used for 10 months almost every day.” September marked six years since she stopped taking drugs, and she now attends a daily monitoring program.
Starting with her first conviction, Simmons’ record repeatedly disqualified her from employment, housing, and the ability to volunteer at her children’s school. Her home went into foreclosure when she was in prison and she declared bankruptcy following her release. After leaving prison in May 2013, Simmons applied to more than 100 different jobs, including positions as a call-center operator and a nurse. She has her bachelor’s degree in nursing and for 11 years had worked in hospitals and homes as a registered nurse, but her license was put on probation because of her 2011 conviction.  
Eventually she secured a part-time position at Burger King, where she worked for about five months before becoming a receptionist for a property company. Soon she was applying to law school. “They would tell me: ‘We would like to hire you, or we would like to rent to you, but we can’t because of your criminal record,’” Simmons told me. Since graduation, she has worked for the Public Defender Association, a justice-reform organization based in Seattle.
Her inability to find employment—and to repay financial debts that had accumulated while she was in prison—led her to consider becoming a lawyer. “I just felt in my spirit: If I’m going through this, there are probably thousands of other people going through this and it is not fair,” she told me. “That’s what led me to law school, to try to change the laws to help people who have made mistakes, changed, and deserve second chances.”
Simmons graduated magna cum laude this July, having won two awards from her university and a prestigious national legal fellowship. She is also part of two Washington state governor’s councils on prisoner reentry. “Her accomplishments are extraordinary,” members of the state bar’s character and fitness board noted in a dissenting opinion accompanying their colleagues’ assessment. “It is as if she flipped a switch in about 2011 [when she went to prison], wherein she truly set out to become a different person.”
The majority of the board members, however, said that not enough time had passed since Simmons’ conviction to show a “consistent and proven pattern of positive conduct that outweighs her years of misconduct.” (Her bankruptcy, too, was an aggravating factor.) After months of preliminary hearings and briefs filed by her lawyers and civil-rights organizations, the state Supreme Court is slated to review the board’s original 6-3 vote Thursday and issue a final written decision in the coming months. If the justices uphold Simmons’ rejection, she will have to wait one year before she can reapply to the bar.
All states have some form of fitness standard for bar applicants, and Washington—which requires that the person prove through “clear and convincing evidence” they meet its requirements—is by no means the most severe. In Kansas and Texas, former inmates are blocked from applying to the bar for five years after completing a felony sentence. In Mississippi, there is an outright lifetime ban for most felony crimes. In Connecticut, there is an automatic presumption that a felony record makes someone unfit to practice and, as in Washington, the burden is on the applicant to prove otherwise.
But advocates and lawyers I spoke to say that proving one’s fitness can be difficult. According to Washington’s rules, applicants must show they meet the state’s standards pertaining to “honesty,” “fairness,” and “trustworthiness.” Yet there aren’t any concrete guidelines for doing so, nor is there state-documented precedent showing how others successfully demonstrated rehabilitation—omissions that advocates and lawyers said make the process opaque.
“It is pretty traumatic to have the bar dredge up every bad thing you have ever done,” said Shon Hopwood, one of Simmons lawyers. “You have to rebut all of that, and you have no idea what your chances are ahead of time. You spend all the time working hard in law school, never knowing if you are actually going to become a lawyer—and that is just hard.”
Hopwood was sentenced to 12 years in prison for robbery after he stole more than $200,000 from multiple banks at gunpoint. He was released early in 2008, unanimously accepted to the Washington bar following a character hearing in 2014, and recently became an associate professor at Georgetown University’s law school. He told me that the admissions process in Washington, as elsewhere, is inconsistently applied. “To be honest, [Tarra] had a more compelling case [than me],” he said, given her history since leaving prison, the severity of his crime, and the length of his sentence. “The process for [state bars] deciding these things is so arbitrary. They ask for a preponderance of evidence that you’ve been rehabilitated, but none of them prescribe what rehabilitation actually means.”
Jean McElroy, the chief regulatory counsel for Washington’s bar association, disagrees. She told me that “the process is pretty clearly laid out” and that the admissions requirements balance a responsibility to vet potential lawyers with giving applicants a fair hearing. “Anything I have seen that is a criticism of our system, for the most part, has been based on either an unclear understanding of how the process works or looking at older law that is no longer applicable,” she said.
McElroy told me there are up to two dozen character hearings each year, but that not all involve applicants with a criminal history. There are 14 factors, ranging from academic misconduct to misconduct in a workplace, that can be invoked to deny admission. McElroy called the ability to practice law a “privilege” and said the rules ensure that people in roles of public trust “exercise good judgment and conduct [themselves] with a high amount of integrity and trustworthiness.”
Simmons’ case has prompted some law professors to push for loosening restrictions. So has another, more high-profile case in Connecticut, where Dwayne Betts, a Yale Law School graduate (and former Atlantic contributor), was initially rejected from the bar because of a 1996 conviction for armed robbery and carjacking. The decision was reversed in September and he was sworn in earlier this month. “I don’t think your credentials should have to be as extraordinary as his [to gain admission],” James Forman Jr., a professor at Yale Law and Betts’ friend, told me. “I would hate for there to be a ‘Dwayne Betts test,’ where if you have a criminal record, the only way you will get in is if you have a 4.0 [GPA] and get into the most elite law school in America.”
People with criminal records often don’t consider applying to law schools, because they see the legal profession as out of reach, said Debbie Mukamal, who heads a research institute at Stanford Law School. She sees a need for a “domino effect” of reforms that normalize former prisoners becoming lawyers, create mentorship and scholarship opportunities, and actively recruit them to law schools. “What we’re all realizing is that individuals who have gone through those life experiences can make some of the best attorneys,” Clark told me. “They know what it’s like. They have credibility. They oftentimes come with a great deal of passion and compassion.”
If the state Supreme Court overturns her rejection, Simmons plans to spend her career representing other former inmates. If not, she wants to continue advocating for changes to policies that impede their reintegration. She told me she anticipates her convictions will keep trailing her no matter what.
“People do change, and I don’t think any judge is sentencing people to a lifetime of punishment unless they’re actually giving them a life sentence,” she said. “But that is the way we are treated in society. [Formerly incarcerated] people just know that they are part of a permanent underclass for the rest of their lives.”


Donald Trump Jr.’s private Twitter correspondence with WikiLeaks adds significant detail to the emerging picture of a political alliance between the Trump campaign and Russia in 2016. It provides evidence of criminal violations of federal campaign-finance rules, which prohibit foreign spending in U.S. elections.
The prohibition has a broad sweep. It disallows contributions, donations, or “anything of value” provided by a foreign national to sway an election. It also bars a campaign from offering “substantial assistance” to a foreign national engaged in spending on American races. Trump Jr.’s messages not only powerfully support the case that the Trump campaign violated these rules, but they also compound the campaign’s vulnerability to “aiding and abetting” liability under the general criminal laws for assisting a foreign national in violating this spending ban.
The Secret Correspondence Between Donald Trump Jr. and WikiLeaks
The exchanges show how the campaign, in this instance through Trump Jr.’s activities, provided specific support and encouragement to WikiLeaks, which by then had effectively partnered with Russia to attack Hillary Clinton’s candidacy and promote Donald Trump’s. Russia devoted resources to hacking Democratic emails; WikiLeaks funded their distribution. In public and private communications, the campaign endorsed and facilitated their actions.
These issues arise, of course, in a period of intensely polarized politics. It is natural, then, for even entirely impartial observers to ask how much of the concern over the legal implications of the Trump-Russia links may be yet another predictable byproduct of partisan conflict. It is a question that will be surely asked of a critic, such as myself, who has legally represented Democratic parties and candidates, including presidential candidates, for decades. But the facts and circumstances here are without precedent in the history of campaign-finance enforcement, and it is hard to imagine that any truly neutral analyst informed about the law would conclude otherwise.
As first reported Monday by The Atlantic, the private Twitter messages, which began in September 2016, “show WikiLeaks, a radical transparency organization that the American intelligence community believes was chosen by the Russian government to disseminate the information it had hacked, actively soliciting Trump Jr.’s cooperation.” The group’s solicitations of support were wide-ranging, from a request that the campaign “push” a particular news story to a suggestion that Trump Sr. tweet out a link enabling the media and others to more efficiently mine the trove of stolen emails.
Even before Monday’s revelations, it seemed clear that the Trump campaign was aware Moscow was committed to Trump Sr.’s candidacy and ready to help. Campaign representatives pursued various contacts with the Russians, including a June 2016 meeting between Trump Jr. and other senior staffers and a Kremlin-connected lawyer who they thought might have damaging information about Clinton. The president himself publicly called for the Russians to locate and make public Clinton’s private emails.  
The president also repeatedly touted WikiLeaks’ work. The group, which Trump Sr. once said he “love[s],” was itself a source of foreign national support for his campaign: It is a self-described “international” operation, based overseas, whose activities are controlled by a foreign national, Julian Assange. During the campaign, Trump officials would have been aware, from public reporting, that intelligence experts believed the Democratic National Committee emails WikiLeaks disseminated came from Russian hackers. And Assange openly promoted his anti-Clinton political goals.
Trump Jr., who worked on his father’s race, was WikiLeaks’ direct correspondent, but according to The Atlantic’s reporting, he kept the senior campaign team in the loop, informing them via email that WikiLeaks had contacted him. His messages also suggest that he collaborated with WikiLeaks in very specific terms. Pressing for more media attention to its cache of purloined emails, WikiLeaks encouraged Trump Jr. in October 2016 to tweet a link that would facilitate reporters’ review of the material. He did just that, two days later. More strikingly, within minutes of WikiLeaks’ message, Trump Sr.—one month before he was elected president—tweeted a complaint about the “very little pick-up” the “dishonest media” had given the group’s cache of emails.
While the correspondence between Trump Jr. and WikiLeaks was often one-sided—with the president’s son responding to some messages, but not others—what matters is that the campaign was sufficiently responsive to send Assange an unambiguous message: His support was welcome. When the group told Trump Jr. that it had identified the hosts of an anti-Trump website, the president’s son responded that he’d “ask around [the campaign]” for more information about the individuals involved. “Thanks,” he added appreciatively. Message sent—and doubtless received.
The president’s son’s direct and collaborative engagement with WikiLeaks reflected the campaign’s judgment that the Assange organization was a political ally. And what Trump Jr. did not say also spoke volumes about the nature of this relationship: At no point in the messages obtained by The Atlantic did he advise WikiLeaks that the campaign could not and would not engage with a foreign organization widely understood to be trafficking in illegally obtained materials on behalf of a foreign government. There is no indication on public record to date, nor has the Trump campaign so far claimed, that any of the senior campaign officials aware of the contact with WikiLeaks communicated that message.
The Trump campaign’s actions seem to raise, rather clearly, a violation of the federal prohibition on knowingly providing “substantial assistance” to a foreign national’s campaign expenditures. There is no question that WikiLeaks and the Russians were engaged in campaign spending: The resources used in the hacking and public dissemination of the emails constitute expenditures by foreign nationals. Nor is there doubt about the substantiality of the campaign’s assistance. Both the president and Trump Jr. promoted to the American public the fruits of Russian hacking, shortly after WikiLeaks’ specific request to do so. The president tweeted his belief in the email trove’s significance, as did Trump Jr. The president’s son furthermore tweeted the link specifically provided by WikiLeaks.
WikiLeaks and Russia would also have benefited from the knowledge, conveyed by Trump Jr. and Sr.’s responsiveness, that their activities were consistent with the campaign’s strategic goals. They need not have doubted whether the campaign valued their efforts. They maintained direct contact with the Trump campaign that would have confirmed that, from the campaign’s point of view, these foreign national activities were a genuine asset to the Republican nominee.
This reassurance qualifies as substantial assistance to foreign national spending. Campaign-finance rules can seem obscure, but in this instance, they seem to apply with crystal clarity. The law on aiding and abetting brings the point out in plain terms: As the fabled jurist Learned Hand once put it, the aider and abettor is one who “associate[s] himself with the [illegal] venture, … participate[s] in it as in something that he wishes to bring about, [and] seek[s] by his action to make it succeed.” This seems to capture precisely the Trump campaign’s 2016 engagement with the WikiLeaks-Russian political partnership.
Trump Jr. dismissed his private Twitter messages as only a “whopping three responses” in a tweet Monday night. But, for legal purposes, just one or two would have been sufficient. Add them to the other contacts with Russia, as well as the president’s publicly stated support for WikiLeaks’ and Russia’s intervention, and the messages confirm that Trump Sr. and his presidential campaign face a “whopping” legal problem.


Updated on November 16 at 12:54 p.m.
Leeann Tweeden, a Los Angeles radio host and former model, says Senator Al Franken, a Minnesota Democrat, kissed her against her will and groped her during a 2006 USO trip to Kuwait, Iraq, and Afghanistan.
In a post on the website of KABC, where she is a morning anchor, Tweeden writes that she was in a skit with Franken in which his character tried to kiss her. She writes that she expected a stage kiss in which she turned her head, but that backstage he insisted they needed to practice the kiss. She demurred, but he insisted, she said.
He repeated that actors really need to rehearse everything and that we must practice the kiss. I said ‘OK’ so he would stop badgering me. We did the line leading up to the kiss and then he came at me, put his hand on the back of my head, mashed his lips against mine, and aggressively stuck his tongue in my mouth.
She said she pushed him away and warned him never to do it again.
“I walked away. All I could think about was getting to a bathroom as fast as possible to rinse the taste of him out of my mouth,” Tweeden wrote. “I felt disgusted and violated.”
Capitol Hill's Sexual-Harassment Problem
She said she decided not to make a big deal of the incident so that the tour could go on, but that she was angry and told a few other people on the tour. Then when she returned to the U.S. and received a CD of photos from the trip, she saw one that depicted a grinning Franken either groping or pretending to grope her breasts as she slept on a flight.
“I’m still angry at what Al Franken did to me,” Tweeden wrote. “Every time I hear his voice or see his face, I am angry. I am angry that I did his stupid skit for the rest of that tour.”
“I certainly don’t remember the rehearsal for the skit in the same way, but I send my sincerest apologies to Leeann,” Franken said in a initial statement. “As to the photo, it was clearly intended to be funny but wasn’t. I shouldn't have done it.”
After that statement, backlash mounted. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell called for a Senate Ethics Committee investigation, and several of Franken’s Democratic colleagues joined in. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York labeled Franken’s apology insufficient and supported calls for an investigation, and Claire McCaskill and Patty Murray did the same.
Franken then released a second, longer statement. “The first thing I want to do is apologize: to Leeann, to everyone else who was part of that tour, to everyone who has worked for me, to everyone I represent, and to everyone who counts on me to be an ally and supporter and champion of women,” he said. “There’s more I want to say, but the first and most important thing—and if it’s the only thing you care to hear, that’s fine—is: I’m sorry.”
He added, “I respect women. I don’t respect men who don’t,” and said he was “ashamed.” He said he also supported an ethics investigation and would cooperate.
Although the allegations elicited immediate demands for Franken to resign, his statements offered no indication he planned to do so, and his colleagues’ call for an ethics investigation falls well short of a call to resign—and could provide Franken cover and time to try to ride the story out. Democrats, who have spent days savaging Roy Moore, may feel pressure to force Franken out to avoid the appearance of hypocrisy.
Franken has served in the Senate since 2009, and wrote in his recent book Al Franken: Giant of the Senate that he had decided to run for office during the USO tour.
Tweeden’s story is the latest in a long string of allegations of sexual abuse, harassment, and assault against powerful men in a range of industries. They come as Republicans seek to force Roy Moore, their party’s U.S. Senate nominee in Alabama, out of his race. Female members of Congress and staffers have described Capitol Hill as rife with sexual harassment, as my colleague Michelle Cottle reported.
The Franken allegations are different for a couple reasons: First, they come against a sitting senator. Second, they include not just Tweeden’s account but also a deeply disturbing photo. Third, they demonstrate yet again that sexual-harassment claims are a bipartisan issue.
Franken has previously faced criticism over things he said during his comedy career, and has dismissed critics for taking his words out of context and misunderstanding comedy. A bawdy column in Playboy titled “Porn-O-Rama,” dealing with online bestiality material, became an issue during his first run for office in 2008. Republicans criticized Franken, a former Saturday Night Live star and comedian, for the piece, but he defended it as merely satire, and defenders said he’d been taken out of context.
“I learned something, which is you can't litigate comedy,” Franken said in an interview with Fresh Air’s Terry Gross earlier this year. “You can't litigate a joke. And in politics, when you're explaining, you're losing. So I had to let that go. And that was hard for me because I'm very proud of my career in comedy. And I had to just, at a certain point—I mean, I tried—I learned it by trying to litigate jokes. And it just—it's—you can't do it. You've got to let go.”
During a hearing on Wednesday, Franken scolded Don Willett, a nominee for federal court, for an old tweet about marrying bacon. “I don’t get it,” Franken said. “But sometimes when you don’t get a joke, it’s because it wasn’t a joke.”
A 2005 NPR story suggests that unwanted kisses from Franken were a staple of his USO shows. Describing a skit with Traylor Howard of the show Monk, he said:
We do this thing where, you know, I have written up this audition piece for me for Monk, 'cause she's—'cause I want to be on the show, and it's all an excuse to kiss her. And then I kiss her and the guys, like yell, and she says, “Wait a minute. If I were going to kiss anybody here, it'd be one of these brave men.” And everyone goes, “Whoo, whoo,” and then she goes, “Or women.” And then they actually get louder. And then we pick a guy from the audience and he ends up kissing her. You know, that kind of thing.
A 1995 piece in New York quoted Franken discussing a potential SNL skit in which Andy Rooney talks about drugging and raping fellow 60 Minutes personality Lesley Stahl.
As a senator, Franken has called for greater protections for victims of sexual harassment.
Franken had been mentioned as a potential Democratic candidate for president in 2020, though he has tried to dampen speculation. But Tweeden’s story and photo almost certainly end that, and Franken’s career in the Senate now looks precarious. If he resigned, Governor Mark Dayton, a Democrat, would appoint a replacement.
Not too many years ago, Franken’s actions might have been forgiven. Bill Clinton set a precedent for politicians riding out scandals, since followed by other officeholders, like Senator David Vitter of Louisiana. But there is now much lower tolerance for this sort of behavior, and the senator will be hard-pressed to laugh it off as just comedy.


SEATTLE—If it didn’t rain here so much, the city might consider adopting a new motto: The future’s so bright we have to wear shades.
Rich City, Poor City
Seattle exemplifies the powerful current of economic vitality that is transforming many of the nation’s largest cities as they connect more deeply to the digital economy and global markets. Over the past decade, Seattle has added 220,000 jobs, an increase of nearly 15 percent. Amazon, which employs 40,000 people here and holds about one-fifth of the city’s premier office space, has keyed that growth, but the revival has spilled far beyond it. Thirty-one Fortune 500 companies now operate research and engineering hubs in Seattle, up from seven in 2010. More construction cranes are working here than in any other U.S. city, many in the South Lake Union area where Amazon has centered its burgeoning operations. Seattle is now adding about 60 people daily, many of them well-educated Millennials. That’s the city’s most rapid rate of population increase since the Klondike Gold Rush around 1900.
Seattle is also confronting a homelessness crisis, grinding traffic congestion, and a housing-affordability squeeze that is displacing not only low-income families but also middle-income earners, such as teachers and police officers. Svenja Gudell, chief economist for Zillow, the housing website based here, reports that over the past year, house prices grew faster in Seattle than any other city, and rents increased faster than anywhere except Riverside, California. Like other new economy hubs such as Austin and Denver, Seattle is also struggling to connect its own kids from low-income and minority neighborhoods—kids of color now represent a majority of its public-school students—to the opportunities bursting around them.
In the 20th century’s last decades, many cities struggled against systemic decline. (In the 1970s, after a wave of layoffs at locally-headquartered Boeing, local residents put up a famous billboard that read: “Will the last person leaving Seattle—Turn out the lights.”) Now, with that fear behind them, Seattle is testing whether cities can manage the challenges of success.
“I’d much rather be in the position we are today where we have economic growth and [are] thriving economically than the opposite of that,” Tim Burgess, the city’s acting mayor, told me at a forum Tuesday night. “What’s important for city government is to make sure we are addressing … the built-in injustices when that economic growth happens, because we know that some [people] are left behind in that situation.”
An Atlantic Media/Allstate Regional Renewal poll of the Seattle region released this week showed that the area’s residents are acutely aware of both sides of that equation. The survey, conducted as part of a nationwide Atlantic Media project that is exploring local innovation, found enormous optimism about the region’s economic trajectory. Three-fourths of those surveyed said they believed it would be best for their career and family life to remain in the Seattle area, and about two-thirds said that young people would have more economic opportunity if they remained as well. About two-thirds likewise described the local job market as good or excellent. Two-thirds said the region was moving in a positive direction.
But 70 percent of those surveyed said the city was unprepared to handle its growth. Another 70 percent agreed the region “is growing in a way that is benefiting only a few and making it too difficult for average families to live here.” Strikingly those views were almost as prevalent among those who had moved to Seattle as adults as they were among lifelong residents. Over half of those surveyed gave negative marks to the region’s transportation mobility and two-thirds gave poor ratings to its housing affordability. (The survey, conducted from September 20 to 24 by FTI Consulting’s Strategy Consulting and Research practice, has a margin of error of plus or minus 4.9 percent.)
Burgess told me he thought both the poll’s positive and negative assessments were justified. “We struggle with these issues,” he said, “but we are taking some deliberate steps to remedy them.” That’s an understatement: Few cities have moved as aggressively as Seattle to confront the challenges of growth.
In recent years, the city has increased its local minimum wage to $15 per hour; launched a pioneering program to expand access to public pre-school; required employers to provide hourly workers with more scheduling certainty; and developed a sweeping plan to mandate that developers construct more affordable housing. Jenny Durkan, who earlier this month was elected as the city’s first woman mayor since 1926, has proposed to fund up to two years of community college tuition for the city’s high school graduates. On Monday, the city approved a tax on short-term rentals (such as Airbnb) to fund expanded services for the homeless, and later this week, it will appear in court to defend a tax on high-income earners the city council unanimously approved in July.
The jury remains out on many of these initiatives. A University of Washington study concluded that reduced hiring and hours worked for low-income workers has blunted the benefits of the higher minimum wage. Local critics consider the housing reforms too meager. The proposed levy on high earners may violate state restrictions on taxing incomes.
But the impulse that binds these disparate ideas is the right one. As the biggest cities regain their place as the nation’s locus of economic opportunity, they must find ways to channel their growth to benefit all of their residents, not just a well educated, tech-savvy few—many of which are relocating from elsewhere. Seattle hasn’t necessarily found all the right answers, but it is ahead of most places in asking the right questions.


Even as Roy Moore’s campaign publicly denounced the claim of one accuser, two more women came forward.
The latest turn in the Alabama Senate special election came in a press conference Wednesday afternoon, when Moore’s attorney Phillip L. Jauregui attempted to cast doubt on the claims of Beverly Young Nelson, who said on Monday that Moore signed her high-school yearbook and then later sexually assaulted her when she was 16. In the press conference, Jauregui said that Nelson’s claim that she had never spoken to Moore after the incident was false, since Moore had presided over a divorce proceeding with Nelson and her husband. Jauregui also denied that Moore ever signed Nelson’s yearbook, alleging inconsistencies in the former Alabama chief justice’s signature, and asked Nelson and her lawyer Gloria Allred to turn the book over to handwriting experts for analysis. “Is it genuine, or is it a fraud?" Jauregui asked.
Just 20 minutes later, AL.com reported that another woman, Tina Johnson, had come forward to allege that Moore had groped her when she was 28, during a meeting in 1991 when Moore was serving as her mother’s attorney during a custody-petition process. “He didn’t pinch it; he grabbed it,” she said of a parting incident in which Moore allegedly touched her buttocks.
Two hours after that, The Washington Post reported that another woman, Gena Richardson, had come forward with accusations that Moore had made unwanted advances—and in one case, an unwanted “forceful” kiss—while she worked as a teenager in the Gadsden Mall. “It was a man kiss—like really deep tongue. Like very forceful tongue,” Richardson said of the alleged encounter, which she says happened around the time when she was 18. Her former coworker at the Gadsden Mall Sears, Kayla McLaughlin, and another former mall employee, Phyllis Smith, corroborated her account.
In a statement to the Post, the Moore campaign denied these new claims and the earlier ones, saying that “if you are a liberal and hate Judge Moore, apparently he groped you.” But in the scandal now consuming the Alabama race, many of the women who’ve come forward with stories of sexual abuse have been Moore’s Republican constituents. On November 9, the Post ran a story containing allegations from Leigh Corfman that Moore had sexual contact with her when she was 14, and offered stories of other women from Gadsden, Alabama, who allege Moore courted them as teenagers. Additionally, AL.com and The New Yorker ran stories with sources claiming that Moore had been known for approaching young women and teenagers in the Gadsden Mall, and was rumored to have been banned at some point.
Even in the face of seven women claiming Moore assaulted or harassed them, his campaign is defiant, with his chief of staff claiming yesterday that “there are holes all the way through the stories” of the accusers.
Moore’s team has painted his candidacy as the victim of a smear campaign. This afternoon, Moore’s wife Kayla Moore wrote a Facebook post claiming that her hometown had “been invaded by The Washington Post and liberal media,” and that the campaign is filing suit against at least one media outlet. Trenton Garmon, one of the campaign’s lawyers, issued a letter to AL.com “in anticipating (sic) of our firm preparing and filing a lawsuit against your client and its agents,” and the campaign website also now contains a form for supporters to report being contacted by reporters.
At least one Alabama resident reported receiving a seemingly anti-Semitic robocall falsely claiming to have been from a Washington Post reporter that appeared to be an attempt to discredit the paper’s reporting. And Garmon made a strange appearance on MSNBC Wednesday, suggesting that host Ali Velshi’s “background” could give the journalist insight on the allegations of sexual assault against minors.
The Senate’s Republican leadership, including Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, have called on Moore to withdraw. Richard Shelby, the Republican senior senator from Alabama, said that he wouldn’t vote for Moore, and would instead favor a write-in candidate. On Tuesday, the Republican National Committee ended all support for Moore, and on Wednesday, the National Republican Senatorial Committee, which withdrew its support of Moore last week, released a poll showing Moore trailing 12 points behind his opponent, Democrat Doug Jones. (The average of other recent polls depicts a tighter race, with Moore clinging to a slight lead.) Ivanka Trump told the AP that “there’s a special place in hell for people who prey on children. I’ve yet to see a valid explanation and I have no reason to doubt the victims’ accounts.” To all of this, Moore’s campaign tweeted another defiant message Wednesday night, telling McConnell to “bring it on.”
Even Moore’s support among the more Breitbart-ian elements of his party has faltered. My colleague Rosie Gray reports that “behind the scenes, [Steve] Bannon has been sounding people out about how to handle the Moore situation.” On Tuesday, FoxNews talk-show host Sean Hannity gave Moore a 24-hour ultimatum to “immediately and fully come up with a satisfactory explanation for your inconsistencies.” Moore attempted to meet that ultimatum, tweeting an open letter to Hannity outlining Jauregui’s attacks on Nelson’s claim and stating that “I have been attacked by The Washington Post and other liberal media in a desperate attempt to smear my character and defeat my campaign.”
Allred has pushed for her client to testify against Moore in a hearing before either the Senate Judiciary Committee or the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. Moore, instead, is seeking to cast doubt on at least one claim lodged against him, in an apparent effort to mollify his erstwhile endorsers and wavering supporters, by giving them just enough to cling to the “if true” portions of their denunciations. Additionally, the fear-mongering about media in Alabama seems aimed less at challenging the veracity of the claims themselves than at undermining trust in any reporting, and solidifying local support.
Moore isn’t going anywhere, and that local support has been much more important than condemnations by national Republican leaders. Several state GOP leaders, including Alabama Secretary of State John Merrill, have continued to support Moore, even after the allegations first surfaced. In fact, Alabama Republican Party Chairman Terry Lathan has implicitly threatened all Alabama Republican politicians with potential expulsion from future ballots for publicly supporting any candidate other than Moore.
With Moore entrenched in defiance, the only real entity that could challenge him to step aside is the Lathan-led state GOP steering committee, which coincidentally met at the same exact time Jauregui gave his press conference. The steering committee sat for hours in the Embassy Suites in the Hoover suburb of Birmingham, grappling with the monumental decision it had before it. But NBC News’s Vaughn Hillyard reported that the proposal to remove Moore from the race never reached the point of a vote, although members of the committee didn’t immediately issue a statement on their decision or come out to speak to the waiting press. According to Josh Gauntt, a reporter for the local Fox affiliate WBRC, “apparently members slipped out some hidden door.”


In his first public address since returning from Asia, President Trump said “America is back and the future has never looked brighter.” During a press conference, the attorney for Roy Moore attempted to discredit a recent allegation against the Alabama Senate candidate. Richard Cordray announced he will step down as head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Senators clashed over changes made to the GOP tax bill late Tuesday night. Authorities said the gunman who opened fire in a small community in Northern California on Tuesday had killed his wife the night before.
An Inconvenient Truth: For years, Democrats have been the party advocating for more aggressive action to prevent climate change. The problem is, they don’t have a plan. (Robinson Meyer)
In Defense of Mormons: The tendency to mock Mormons for their religious beliefs while praising them for their good deeds misses the connection between them. (Hal Boyd)
Moore Trouble Ahead: Despite the sexual-misconduct allegations against Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, the state’s election laws are keeping him on the ballot. Here’s how. (Vann R. Newkirk II)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

‘If I Could Go Back, I Wouldn’t Say a Word’: Eight women explain what happened after they reported being sexually harassed at work. (Jessica Contrera, The Washington Post)
Past Deadline: Vox reports that the Trump administration rejected roughly 4,000 “late” DACA renewals—some of which actually arrived on time but were left sitting in government mailboxes. (Dara Lind)
‘Roy Moore Reminds Me of My Rabbi’: If Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore wins, the Republican brand and the faith community will be irreparably damaged. (Bethany Mandel, The New York Times)
Doesn’t Add Up: When it comes to tax reform, Republicans seem to have a recurring problem: “As soon as they come up with an idea for new revenue, they immediately remember a new tax they’d like to cut.” (Eric Levitz, New York)
Footing the Bill: American taxpayers are reportedly paying the salaries of at least 10 Justice Department lawyers who are defending President Trump’s private businesses in four different lawsuits. (Nick Penzenstadler, USA Today)
What’s in It?: On Thursday, the House will vote on the Republicans’ new tax bill. Here are all the tax cuts and increases it contains. (Alicia Parlapiano and Adam Pearce, The New York Times)
The Case for the Case: Throughout its 160-year history, The Atlantic has made “The Case” for something more than 250 times. Browse the full collection here. (Caroline Mimbs Nyce)
In this dispatch from Seattle, The Atlantic’s Olga Khazan describes the city’s plans to open a new safe-injection facility for heroin addicts in an attempt to make it safer for them to quit. But critics say it actually makes it easier for users to stay addicted.
Do you think this is an effective strategy for addressing the country’s escalating opioid epidemic? Do you see it as necessary—or as enabling?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


President Trump returned from a 12-day trip to Asia Tuesday carrying little except some souvenirs and a sense of umbrage. Wednesday afternoon, he stepped to a lectern in the White House and showed the nation what he brought home with him.
Trump’s speech, delivered formally, from a teleprompter, was confusing. The president had tweeted that the nation could expect a “major statement” upon his return, feeding speculation about what he might offer: New sanctions on North Korea? A diplomatic breakthrough? A trade agreement? But as the president spoke, it quickly became apparent that there was no big announcement. Instead, the speech was more like a narration of what Trump did on his fall vacation, missing only a slideshow to go along with it.
Trump’s trip didn’t go poorly, exactly. With the exception of a few outbursts and some appalling coddling of authoritarian leaders’ anti-press policies, Trump avoided major gaffes, but he also came home without a signature achievement. A New York Times piece in Wednesday’s newspaper mocked Trump’s description of the trip as “very epic.” That article got under the president’s skin, producing a series of angry tweets. He also demanded that three UCLA players caught shoplifting in China and released in conjunction with his trip thank him. Then came Trump’s statement, announced with relatively short notice.
The key to giving a speech outlining your big achievements is to have some to offer. Trump did spotlight a few minor successes from the trip: Japan and South Korea both agreed to spend more on defense, taking some burden off of the United States. While in Asia, Trump also announced several projects in the United States, including $250 billion in Chinese investment. He said Japanese companies had invested $8 billion since the start of the year.
But these numbers are small in the scope of the American economy. On the two most pressing matters of his trip, North Korea’s nuclear program and the U.S. trade deficit, the president had less to offer. He boasted that Japan and South Korea had tightened sanctions on some North Korean entities, and added that China’s “President Xi recognizes that North Korea is a great threat to China.” Trump also took a shot at President Obama’s largely unsuccessful approach to the Kim regime, saying, “We have ended the failed strategy of strategic patience including tough new sanctions from the Security Council.”
So far, however, he has nothing to show for these changes: North Korea continues to test missiles, and there’s been no breakthrough. That’s not a knock against Trump, necessarily—the North Korean problem will take time to solve—but it doesn’t make for a dramatic announcement.
Nor was there much to work with on trade.
“The 21 [Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation] leaders for the first time ever recognized the importance of fair and reciprocal trade,” Trump said. “They recognized the need to address unfair trade practices and acknowledged that the WTO is in strong need of reform.”
Such a bland affirmation is a long way from concrete results such as WTO reform, though. “We will never again turn a blind eye to trading abuses, to cheating, economic aggression, or anything else from countries that profess a belief in open trade but do not follow the rules or live by its principles themselves,” Trump said Wednesday. “No international trading organization can function if members are allowed to exploit the openness of others for unfair economic gain.”
But during his trip, he had sounded considerably more conciliatory, saying he blamed previous U.S. leaders for allowing America to be exploited, rather than the nations he said were performing the exploitation. That’s all well and good, but he hasn’t produced any proof that he’s doing better than his predecessors, even by his own standard.
In the absence of a true breakthrough, Trump instead narrated his trip, stop by stop, from his first touchdown in Hawaii to his final stop in the Philippines. Adding to the weirdness of the spectacle was a moment in which Trump reached for a bottle of water. Not finding it, he said on microphone, “They don’t have water, but that’s okay.” Then someone pointed him to a bottle—Fiji, imported from overseas—and he drank. It was an awkward gesture, reminiscent of Senator Marco Rubio’s infamous sip during the 2013 GOP rebuttal to the State of the Union. Trump, naturally, tweeted making fun of Rubio at the time. Rubio returned the favor Wednesday, tweeting that Trump “needs work on his form. Has to be done in one single motion & eyes should never leave the camera. But not bad for his 1st time.”
Trump is thirsty not just for water but for respect. As I have written, he has repeatedly expressed frustration that the country, the press, and the political establishment do not recognize all that he’s getting done. I have also noted that Trump has gotten more done than is often recognized. On Wednesday, he mentioned America’s progress in defeating ISIS and positive economic news to bolster his case. Nevertheless, the president’s insistence on billing his rather dull summary of his trip as a “major” announcement, as well as his emphasis on the unusual length of his journey, served only to call attention to how little he has to show for his travels.


Updated on November 15 at 4:13 p.m. ET
President Trump and congressional Republicans have repeatedly insisted that the top priority of their tax reform is delivering relief to the middle class. But under a significant change to the Senate’s plan announced late Tuesday night, that relief for most people will now only be temporary, and millions of middle-class families could actually see a tax increase in 2026 if Congress doesn’t act again.
As I recently reported, the competing Republican tax bills were both over-budget, forcing party leaders to scale them back if they hoped to pass legislation under Senate rules without Democratic votes. They essentially had two choices: They could slap an expiration date on the proposal’s large corporate tax cut—from 35 percent down to 20 percent—or they could sunset the provisions benefitting individuals.
For now, Republicans are siding with businesses, keeping the lower corporate rate permanent while setting nearly all of the individual tax cuts to expire in eight years, at the end of 2025. The decision is a nod to conservative economists who argue that permanence in business tax rates is key to producing desired growth in the GDP, because companies are more likely to plan expansion and investments years ahead of time. And it’s also a bet that future Congresses—whether under Democratic or Republican majorities—will extend the cuts for individuals to stave off a politically unpopular tax increase.
Yet the choice dents the GOP’s message that the bill is targeted chiefly at middle-class families and not big business. “Bottom line, my colleagues on the other side have shown their hand,” said Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Finance Committee, which wrote the bill and held a combative markup of the revised proposal on Wednesday less than 12 hours after the changes were unveiled. Republicans on the panel hope to approve the bill this week so the full Senate can vote on it after Thanksgiving. The House is set to pass its version of the tax bill on Thursday, and party leaders want to reconcile the legislation and send it to Trump’s desk by Christmas. Adding to the GOP’s hurry is the Senate special election next month in Alabama: If Democrat Doug Jones defeats the scandal-plagued Roy Moore, the Republican majority come January would be down to a single seat.
Wyden said the changes ordered by Chairman Orrin Hatch of Utah created a “double standard” in which handouts for corporations were “etched in stone” while relief for families would go away. And because Republicans are making permanent changes to the way inflation is calculated in tax policy, many people would see a net tax increase from what they pay today once the personal tax cuts expire. “For middle-class families, the deal looks worse and worse,” Wyden said.
In the short term, middle-class families should do better under the revised Senate bill than the original. Hatch slightly lowered individual income rates and increased the child tax credit to $2,000. (The credit is currently $1,000 per child, and the first Senate draft would have bumped it up to $1,650.) But like the rest of the individual provisions, including a repeal of the alternative-minimum tax and the doubling of the estate-tax exemption, those perks would go away in eight years.
Republicans readily acknowledged they only sunset the personal tax cuts to abide by Senate budget rules, which forbid the tax legislation from adding to the deficit after the first decade. They would need 60 votes, including at least eight from Democrats, to get around that. “We can make the individual side permanent,” Senator John Thune of South Dakota said. “All it takes is a few Democrats to help us do that.”
Democrats, of course, are in no mood to assist Republicans in passing a bill they consider fiscally irresponsible and skewed toward the rich. They spent much of Wednesday’s hearing hammering the GOP for inserting a repeal of the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate into the bill, a move that helped them offset some of the tax cuts in the budget. While Republicans argued they were eliminating a penalty that hits lower-income Americans disproportionately, Democrats countered that scrapping the penalty would actually raise costs for most people through higher insurance premiums—a view shared by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. “You are spending $338 billion to make tax cuts for corporations permanent,” Democratic Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri said.
Republicans have downplayed the impact of sunsetting the individual tax cuts, offering assurances that lawmakers in the future won’t allow them to go back up, at least not for the middle class. They have recent history on their side. Under President George W. Bush, Republican majorities enacted temporary tax cuts to abide by Senate rules. A decade later, Democrats extended all of them for two years under former President Barack Obama, and then in early 2013, Obama struck a deal with Republicans to make permanent all of the cuts except those on income over $400,000.
“I think that’s a fight we can win,” said Jason Pye, director of public policy and legislative affairs for FreedomWorks, the conservative advocacy group. He told me he would have preferred to see all of the tax cuts made permanent but that he understood the constraints Republicans were under. “I don’t care for it, but I’ll live with it,” he said. “There are certain concessions that we have to make and that conservatives have to make.”
The GOP bill ran into its first sign of trouble on Wednesday afternoon when Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin told the Wall Street Journal that he would oppose it as written. Johnson complained that the bill’s business tax cuts were too skewed in favor of corporations as opposed to smaller firms and “pass-through” entities. “If they can pass it without me, let them,” Johnson told the newspaper. “I’m not going to vote for this tax package.”
So far, he’s the only Republican senator planning to vote no, and the party can afford only one more defection if he doesn’t change his mind. But making so many of the provisions temporary while insisting they’ll never go away risks support from deficit hawks like Senators Bob Corker of Tennessee and Jeff Flake of Arizona, since the change obscures the true cost of long-term tax cuts. “We can’t cut, cut, cut today and assume Congress will grow a backbone later,” Flake said earlier this month.
But the assumption inherent in the GOP’s argument is that Congress won’t ever grow that backbone. In essence, by relying on future Congresses to extend the tax cuts they’re enacting now, Republicans are applying the lessons they learned the hard way in their struggle to repeal Obamacare: Once a benefit makes it into law, it’s nearly impossible for lawmakers to take it away.


“What the Mormons do, seems to be excellent,” according to Charles Dickens’s 19th-century journal Household Words, “what they say, is mostly nonsense.”
One Blasphemer’s New Admiration for Mormons
Since the days of Dickens, Mormons have been occasionally portrayed as virtuous despite their “strange” beliefs. Yet, those who study Mormonism closely often come to appreciate that distinct Latter-day Saint behavior is strongly tethered to distinct Latter-day Saint theology.
Writing in The Atlantic this week, Kurt Andersen praises members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or Mormons for their “sincere commitment to leading virtuous lives” while simultaneously snickering at their “extreme and strange” beliefs.
There is, of course, a long and rather ignoble tradition of simultaneously praising and mocking Mormons. In the throes of World War II, President Franklin Roosevelt sent off a friendly missive to Winston Churchill and his wife. Roosevelt noted his “very high opinion of the Mormons” while also taking the opportunity to poke fun at Mormon polygamy, which had officially ended in 1890.
FDR’s ribbing was playful, but Missouri’s extermination order against Mormons in the mid-19th century was not. Nor was the federal confiscation of LDS Church property or the proposed immigration ban against Latter-day Saints in the late-19th century.
Religious minorities can be prone to taking offense too easily. And a persecution complex helps no one. But neither does trading in casual Mormon mockery. “You’d be surprised,” Harvard Law School’s Noah Feldman once observed, “by how many people pride themselves on having no prejudices at all but preserve a little place in their heart for this kind of soft anti-Mormon prejudice.”
Even after Governor Mitt Romney’s bid for the presidency brought immense media attention to the LDS Church, the Pew Research Center found that barely half of Americans understand that Mormonism is a “Christian faith.”
And while 7 or 8 percent of Americans say they wouldn’t vote for an otherwise qualified black, Hispanic, or female presidential candidate, fully 18 percent of Americans still say “they would not vote for a well-qualified presidential candidate who happens to be a Mormon.” The figure is “virtually the same as the 17 percent who held this attitude in 1967.” Mormons today would evidently fare better than, say, an atheist or Muslim candidate, but the remarkably persistent numbers since 1967 are telling.
Latent anti-Mormon bias may seem harmless enough—after all, Mormons are reluctant to call others out on it. (Instead of picketing The Book of Mormon musical, for example, the Mormon Church bought advertisements in Broadway playbills that say things like, “You’ve seen the show, now read the book.”)
The liberal television personality Lawrence O’Donnell even admitted, after an on-air rant about Mormon founder Joseph Smith, that he wasn’t worried about any negative consequences since “Mormons are the nicest people in the world. … They’ll never take a shot at me.”
There are, meanwhile, consequences for Mormons.
A federal judge told me recently of an Ivy League law professor who sent him a letter of recommendation for a Mormon student, observing that in general Mormons are solid workers but tend to lack “intellectual imagination.” The professor did not know that the judge on the receiving end was himself a Mormon. The same professor sent a similar letter sometime later on behalf of a different Latter-day Saint student. The letter again contained the same caution about the Latter-day Saint’s lack of “intellectual imagination.”
A separate Ivy League student—now a tenured professor at a prestigious university—similarly recalled the shock on one of his professor’s faces when the professor discovered that this student was a Mormon. The noted scholar remarked that he didn’t think Latter-day Saints took “ideas seriously.”
Criticism about another’s beliefs is hard to separate from judgments about a person’s worth or intellectual capacities. But, ironically, it is often the very beliefs that Andersen and others criticize that have produced the pro-social Mormon behaviors so often praised. As The Atlantic’s McKay Coppins observed in partial reaction to Andersen’s piece, “I’m not so sure those ‘ridiculous supernatural beliefs’ can be so easily separated from the values/principles/‘righteousness’ showcased in Mormon life.”
This isn’t to suggest that beliefs or truth claims are off-limits from scrutiny or rigorous debate. Rather, it means that the link between behavior and belief should prompt greater engagement with actual religious teachings, instead of straw man caricatures. It means trying to understand why a belief that seems implausible on its face is believed and lived by otherwise rational individuals. It means seeking to understand what it is about that given belief that tends to produce virtuous behavioral outcomes.
The late-Catholic theologian Stephen Webb observed that “mocking Mormonism is one of the last frontiers of verbal lawlessness to be untouched by the vigilante powers of political correctness.”
He asks: “What other group is ridiculed equally by Christians and secularists—and not just any kind of Christian or secularist but the most fervent and hard core?”
Andersen, for his part, seems to have genuinely meant to applaud Mormon politicians like Senator Jeff Flake, Evan McMullin, and Mitt Romney for being among the first Republicans to condemn Alabama politician Roy Moore after allegations surfaced this past week that the would-be septuagenarian U.S. senator lecherously pursued teenage girls while in his early 30s.
But lest Andersen be perceived as overly soft on the Saints, he made sure to take a passing shot at what he calls Mormonism’s “sci-fi” heaven with its promise of a “personal planetary fiefdom.” Setting aside the questionable characterization of LDS doctrine (as a life-long Latter-day Saint I’ve never once been taught in a church meeting that heaven involves a “planetary fiefdom”) it may well be true that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, but mockery is almost certainly America’s most consistent form of initiation. The Catholics got The Sound of Music; the Jews got Fiddler on the Roof, and, well, the Mormons got South Park on stage.
Not unlike The Book of Mormon musical, Andersen’s musings aim to initiate rather than alienate, to praise rather than punish. But what Andersen fails to appreciate is that it’s precisely the pro-social beliefs of Mormons—the eternal nature of families, obligations to the poor and oppressed, accountability to God, the importance of clean living, and the value of self-reliance and personal agency—that result in specific shared behaviors and actions by the likes of Flake and Romney.
The British public intellectual Alain de Botton’s book Religion for Atheists: A Non-Believer’s Guide to the Uses of Religion similarly seeks to appreciate the good of religion without accepting what he believes are unpalatable theological claims. But as Rabbi Lord Jonathan Sacks eloquently observed in a conversation with de Botton: “Matters of the spirit live on the basis of obligation or ... [divine] command. Unless you hear a command [or] an obligation that comes from beyond you … you will not be able to generate sustainable [behavior].” For the religious, behavior is an extension of belief, of divine command—it’s a system of obligations rooted in metaphysical truth claims about the world and universe.
As much as South Park or Andersen desire to decouple behavior from belief, the reality is that, in the words of the columnist David Brooks, “Vague, uplifting, nondoctrinal religiosity doesn't actually last. The religions that grow, succor and motivate people to perform heroic acts of service are usually theologically rigorous, arduous in practice, and definite in their convictions about what is True and False.”
If Andersen honestly wants more politicians like Flake and Romney, it might help to be a bit less dismissive of religious belief, and a bit more curious in understanding why it seems to work.


For a moment there, it looked as though the public conversation about sexual harassment and assault might escape political polarization by virtue of the plague’s depressing ubiquity. Fox News founder Roger Ailes was a pig, but so, it turned out, is Hollywood producer and Democratic donor Harvey Weinstein. There was little to gain by quibbling over whether Fox News’ Bill O’Reilly or Eric Bolling is pervier than NPR’s Mike Oreskes or ABC’s Mark Halperin. And lest conservatives felt the urge to wax pious about the parade of Hollywood bad boys (James Toback, Brett Ratner, Louis C.K., Andy Dick, Kevin Spacey…), above the entire mess hovered the specter of  President Donald Trump.
How a Non-Incumbent GOP Winner in Virginia Stayed Above Water
Not that the big-p political realm escaped scrutiny. Stories continue to bubble up about frat-boy behavior not just on Capitol Hill but also in state houses across the country. “It’s even worse in state legislatures. They are notorious places people get harassed,” said pollster Anna Greenberg. “State capitals are often kind of isolated. State legislators travel there, stay there alone.” Left to their own devices, lawmakers get a little crazy.
But tellingly, the focus has been not so much on punishing specific bad actors from either team as on reforming what are widely recognized as deeply toxic cultures. After years (decades, really) of foot-dragging, both chambers of Congress moved in the past week to mandate anti-harassment training for members and staff. (Much more needs to be done, but it’s a start.) Republican, Democratic, Independent—everyone lives in a glass house. Thus, while the occasional political stone was tossed, the outcry over men behaving badly was largely unburdened by left-right tribal baggage.
Then came the predation accusations against Republican Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, and just like that, the issue was jerked back into more familiar, more partisan territory. Two women have accused Moore of sexual abuse, three others have said he pursued them when they were teenagers and Moore was in his 30s. Tribal lines were drawn, the wagons were circled, and familiar positions were staked out. Moore’s fan base (heavy on religious conservatives) blamed the liberal media, Democratic haters, the Republican establishment, and, of course, those lying women—all of whom Team Moore set out to discredit. In Washington, Republicans on both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue issued tortured statements about how Moore needed to leave the race “if” the charges proved to be true. Fox News generally tiptoed around the erupting scandal, while Sean Hannity in particular treated Moore with such gentleness that his advertisers began to balk. Donald Trump remains uncharacteristically quiet even now.
All of which stands to benefit Democrats in any number of ways. Most narrowly, Moore could stay in the race but prove so toxic that Alabama’s typically blood-red Senate seat goes blue. Or, Republican leaders’ efforts to recruit a write-in candidate could wind up splitting the vote, not to mention widening the existing rift between party leaders and some in their base. Or, Moore could emerge victorious, saving the seat for his party but damaging the GOP brand for years to come. “What do we do with him if he becomes the face of the Republican Party?” lamented GOP strategist Katie Packer Beeson, whose focus is improving her team’s standing among women.
Regardless of what happens in Alabama, Moore has the potential to drive gals to the polls nationwide to register their displeasure with his party—this year’s version of Todd “legitimate rape” Akin. As Beeson noted, Trump’s sexist image has already galvanized many women against the GOP; having Moore ascend to the Senate would be like pouring kerosene on a campfire: “The Democrats could basically run on, ‘Look at what the other party has become: the party that protects sexual harassers and child molesters!’”
Here’s hoping it does not come to that. Whatever your political leanings, the polarization of sexual harassment and abuse is not a positive development. As has been driven home so graphically of late, this is a widespread, crosses-pretty-much-every-demographic-line problem. To make meaningful progress addressing it, no political or ideological cohort can be in a defensive crouch. Everyone has to face distasteful realities “and call out bad actors on both sides,” said Beeson. As Caitlin Flanagan so eloquently noted, this means acknowledging that Donald Trump and Bill Clinton have abhorrent track records with the ladies.
Ironically, the particular ickiness of the Moore allegations may prevent this situation from sinking into the swamp of tribalism. As Beeson put it, “This isn’t about disrespecting women in the workplace. This guy clearly had a strong attraction to young girls.” Even in this society’s not-so-nuanced culture wars, plenty of people draw a distinction between an alleged sexual harasser and an alleged child predator.
As additional evidence surfaces to support Moore’s accusers, more and more Republican leaders are abandoning him. Senators Mike Lee and Steve Daines were among the first to rescind their support, but the trend is gaining speed. On Monday, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell called on Moore to leave the race, followed on Tuesday by Speaker Paul Ryan. Also on Tuesday, the RNC ended its fundraising agreement with Moore’s campaign, as the National Republican Senatorial Committee did last Friday. Down in Alabama, meanwhile, the state party’s steering committee will meet later this week to discuss whether or not to cut Moore loose.
At this rate, the candidate soon will be left with only with his most blinkered loyalists. Tuesday night, even Sean Hannity said that Moore needed to “come up with a satisfactory explanation” for his “inconsistencies” within 24 hours or exit the race.
This is, obviously, as it should be. Whatever spotlight politics brings to an issue like this, it also ups the risk of backlash, divides people who might otherwise have been allies, and increases the likelihood that the vulnerable individuals involved will become collateral damage in the broader partisan war. In many ways it’s easier to tackle something like this when it stays out of the political realm, said Greenberg, “when regular people see this as something they have the power to do something about.” She added, “It gets harder once Steven Bannon is involved.”


Why can’t Alabamians be rid of Roy Moore?
The abundance of allegations against the Republican nominee for the state’s open U.S. Senate seat are damning. There’s the November 9 allegation from Leigh Corfman in The Washington Post that Moore, the former Alabama Supreme Court judge, sexually abused her when she was 14. There are allegations from several other women around Gadsden, Alabama, that Moore sought their affections while he was in his 30s and they were teenagers, allegations Moore has not flatly denied. There is also Beverly Young Nelson, who claims Moore attempted to rape her when she was 16, and who provided proof that Moore, then 30, signed her high-school yearbook.
How a Non-Incumbent GOP Winner in Virginia Stayed Above Water
Then there are reports from several named sources around the town that Moore’s flirting with teenagers was “common knowledge,” confirmation of that common knowledge from a former colleague,  and a story from the New Yorker that Moore had been banned from both the Gadsden Mall and YMCA for pursuing teenage girls as an adult.Yet, if the Alabama special election for that Senate seat were held today, Moore would still be on the ballot as the Republican-endorsed candidate, and recent polling shows that even now victory against Democratic opponent Doug Jones wouldn’t be a surprise.  Moore himself has shown no signs that he is willing at all to even consider stepping aside, telling FoxNews’s Sean Hannity last week that “I don't remember dating any girl without the permission of her mother,” and that the allegations were a coordinated smear against his campaign.
A complicated labyrinth of Alabamian election laws makes it difficult to force Moore out or replace him with another Republican candidate, and accordingly, Republicans in the state appear to be in no hurry to force him to step aside. As Talking Points Memo reports, the Alabama Republican Party’s central steering committee plans to meet this week to discuss Moore’s nomination, which only they can withdraw. What they’ll do is anyone’s guess, but after being hollowed out by scandals involving former governor Robert Bentley, who resigned in April, and swirling investigations and controversies involving Jeff Sessions, the current U.S. Attorney General and former senator, it seems any decision will lead to chaos.
According to Alabama state law, it’s now too late to even remove Moore from the ballot, even though he could still lose the party’s nomination. Governor Kay Ivey could move the special election back in order to allow Moore’s name to be scrubbed from the ballot, a move that some strategists and commentators have championed as a way to give the party time to field a candidate, but on Saturday Ivey shut the door on that plan. “The governor is not considering and has no plans to move the special election for U.S. Senate,” the governor’s spokesperson told CBS News.
It’s also pretty much too late to turn to Luther Strange, the current acting Alabama junior senator and the man who lost to Moore in the 2017 primary, for help. According to a memo drafted by Strange himself when he was state Attorney General in 2014, the state’s “sore loser” law passed in 2006 specifies that a candidate who was officially in the primary ballot after the 76-day cutoff “may not thereafter appear on a subsequent ballot representing any other party, or as an independent candidate, or as a minor-party candidate.”
The “sore loser” law is complicated: While some experts believe it doesn’t or cannot apply to presidential ballots, the most recent court precedent on the issue actually comes out of a federal district court in Alabama. For the 2016 Senate election, which the incumbent Shelby won, the court ruled that Alabama Secretary of State John Merrill had been in the right when he barred independent candidate Rocky De La Fuente from the general-election ballot, since De La Fuente had run in the primary as a Democrat.
Merrill, who has reaffirmed his support of Moore pending investigation of the allegations, clarified that rule to me, saying that “the sore loser rule doesn’t really apply here, because only two candidates made the ballot on time.” If the election were postponed, then the sore-loser law would come into effect for candidates trying to make it on the ballot in time. Regardless, Strange could not be swapped in for Moore as the Republican candidate or run as an independent, but could still receive certified votes as a write-in candidate.
There seems to be some contention over what would happen if Alabama Republicans withdraw their nomination from Moore. According to Richard Winger, editor of  Ballot Access News, “it’s all kind of moot if Roy Moore doesn’t want to resign. In that case, it’s a simple matter. There’s no state that would allow the party to replace a candidate that won the primary and didn’t want to quit.”
But Merrill told me that that wouldn’t be the case if the state GOP decided to withdraw its nomination from Moore in this case. “If you look at our code, then you would see that if Judge Moore disqualifies himself, or secondarily, if the Republican Party renounced his nomination,” Merrill says, “there’s no way that they can actually change the ballot, but what that would mean is if Judge Moore got the most amount of votes in either one of those scenarios, then our election would be considered null and void.”
If Moore does at some point decide to withdraw from the race, although Alabama law is unclear on what happens, Winger says that the 1990 governor’s race in Minnesota provides some precedent on what to do. In that race, Independent-Republican Party gubernatorial candidate Jon Grunseth faced allegations of sexually abusing minors, and withdrew just a week before the general election. Two days later, the state supreme court ruled that Arne Carlson, the state auditor who’d lost to Grunseth in the primary, could take Grunseth’s place on the ballot. Carlson won the election.
Before that election, Carlson was the face of a vibrant write-in candidacy, but in Alabama, the idea of supporting a write-in campaign itself is further increasing the entropy within the state GOP.
That’s even as leading Republicans in the Senate, including Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Texas Senators Ted Cruz and John Cornyn called on Moore to step aside, fellow Alabama Senator Richard Shelby told Moore to “consider” dropping out, and Colorado Senator Cory Gardner, the leader of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, even called on the Senate to expel Moore should he win the seat.
Moore still has many defenders in Alabama who don’t seem to care all that much about the allegations. Aside from the more predictable conspiracy theorists and “allegations are just allegations” types, there’s a heavy contingent of people who have expressed their support even in the event of the allegations being proven entirely true. Alabama Bibb County Republican chairman Jerry Pow told Toronto Star reporter Daniel Dale that he'd vote for Moore even if Moore had committed crimes. Alabama State Auditor Jim Zeigler affirmed his support, and in a bizarre quote likened the alleged abuse to the Christian Holy Family.
On Sunday, in an interview with the Alabama Political Reporter, Alabama Republican Party Chairman Terry Lathan said that “it would be a serious error for any current elected GOP official or candidate to publicly endorse another party’s candidate, an independent, a third party or a write-in candidate in a general election.”
Lathan went even further, appearing to threaten fellow Republicans who bucked the party line by citing the state GOP’s right to deny access on the ballot to any candidate who even publicly supports the campaign, write-in or otherwise, of a candidate for another party. It’s unclear if that rule on ballot access, which reserves unspecified rights to denial of access for infractions other than supporting Democratic or third-party candidates, would apply to say publicly supporting Strange or a write-in campaign from Sessions. Lathan also told Al.com on Monday that it’s “very unlikely” that the steering committee will take the nomination and their individual endorsements away from Moore.
Even if the Alabama GOP lets down its firewall against write-in candidates, Moore still probably holds the edge. Merrill has said that there’s no precedent for a viable write-in candidacy in the state’s history, and there’ve been three total write-in candidates to win Senate races in national history, including one seat for a special two-month term in California in 1946. The two other names on the list are South Carolinian Strom Thurmond and Alaska Senator Lisa Murkowski, who won the 2010 general election as a write-in after losing the Republican primary as an incumbent. Although Strange is keeping his options open, a write-in candidacy would be a long-shot at best.
The bottom line is that Moore, even facing a half-dozen allegations of abuse and assault, is pretty much in the driver’s seat, and both his state party and Alabama’s byzantine election laws are keeping it that way. For a state party and two years of politics ruled by scandal and misconduct, all signs point to more confusion and the continuing presence of Roy Moore, regardless.


Alabama’s Senate race received an ugly new wrinkle on Tuesday night, thanks to an apparent series of robocalls that seemed to be designed to fan resentments—of the press, of Northerners, and perhaps of Jewish reporters.
Local news station WKRG reported that one of its viewers received a robocall from a man impersonating a Washington Post reporter. In it, the man offers to pay women thousands of dollars if they’ll make false accusations against Roy Moore, the state’s former chief justice and the Republican candidate to replace Jeff Sessions in the Senate.
Hi, this is Lenny Bernstein. I’m a reporter for The Washington Post calling to find out if anyone at this address is a female between the ages of 54 to 57 years old willing to make damaging remarks about candidate Roy Moore for a reward of between $5,000 and $7,000 dollars. We will not be fully investigating these claims; however, we will make a written report. I can be reached by email at lbernstein@washingtonpost.com. Thank you.
Taken at face value, the call appears to be a hamfisted effort to discredit the Post’s bombshell reporting into Moore’s interactions with young women when he was a county prosecutor in the 1970s. The newspaper interviewed four women who said Moore made efforts to court them when he was in his early 30s and they were teenagers. One of them, Leigh Corfman, said Moore made sexual contact with her when she was 14 years old.
Those stories sparked a political firestorm for Moore and a headache for national Republicans, many of whom were already uneasy with the firebrand jurist. After a fifth woman came forward on Monday to accuse him of sexual assault, high-ranking GOP legislators in Washington, including Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, called on Moore to step aside. Moore, for his part, has denied and denounced all of the allegations made against him. He’s also refused to step aside from the contest for Alabama’s Senate seat even as some polls show his lead narrowing.
Moore and his supporters have repeatedly blamed the media for his troubles. And on Tuesday night, his attorney released a letter sent to the Alabama Media Group threatening legal action in response to its reporting.
The Washington Post swiftly denounced the robocalls on Tuesday night. “The Post has just learned that at least one person in Alabama has received a call from someone falsely claiming to be from The Washington Post,” Marty Baron, the newspaper’s executive editor, told WKRG. “The call’s description of our reporting methods bears no relationship to reality. We are shocked and appalled that anyone would stoop to this level to discredit real journalism.”
To make matters more confusing, there’s actually a journalist working at the Post named Lenny Bernstein. He covers health-related topics, not politics. On Twitter, he defended his name and criticized those who sought to use it to slander his employer.
To all who've been in touch: Thanks for the support. For the record, I definitely DO work at the Post and we definitely DON'T report that way. Appalling effort to discredit the great work the Post and other journos do.
Impersonating a journalist to smear the entire profession is a nasty enough maneuver on its own. But the Alabama robocall also seems to draw upon the dark motifs of anti-Semitism to accomplish its goal. The fake Bernstein’s nasally, high-pitched voice and forced New York accent evoke anti-Semitic caricatures and stereotypes. (The real Bernstein, for the record, sounds nothing like this.)
There’s a long, ugly history of intertwining anti-Semitism and attacks on media outlets. Historian Victoria Saker Woeste, writing in The Washington Post, described the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, a virulent anti-Jewish tract first published in tsarist Russia, as the first modern instance of “fake news.” The pamphlet claimed a cabal of Jewish leaders had taken control of the media as part of a plot for world dominion.
The propagandists behind the “Protocols” attributed extraordinary power to the media. A section titled “Control of the Press” “reveals” that Jews seek to control every aspect of the media to protect their new, worldwide government from attack or criticism. Through false stories and skewed analysis, the Jewish-controlled media would lead the masses to see the world not as it was, but as Jews wished it to be seen: “Our subjects will be convinced [of] the existence of full freedom of speech and so [will] give our agents an occasion to affirm that all organs which oppose us are empty babblers.”
Fake news, then, begins as Jewish infiltration of the legitimate media and transforms into complete domination: “Not a single announcement will reach the public without our control.”
As Nazi Germany sought actual world dominion a few decades later, it played upon similar themes to vilify newspapers and radio stations as lügenpresse, or “lying press.” Some Trump supporters borrowed the phrase from its Nazi originators to criticize the media when then-candidate Donald Trump intensified his criticism of journalists during last year’s presidential election.
Trump’s attacks and Tuesday’s smear take root in fertile soil. A YouGov poll taken in August found that 54 percent of Trump voters found the Post untrustworthy or very untrustworthy, compared to only 26 percent of the general public. Trump captured Alabama in the 2016 election with a 27-point margin of victory.


Back in September, Roy Moore’s Republican senatorial primary win over Luther Strange seemed like a good early sign for Steve Bannon’s “season of war” against the Republican establishment. Bannon and his website Breitbart News had gone all-in on the Alabama race, flooding the zone with pro-Moore coverage, and Bannon had campaigned for him in person. And Moore emerged victorious even though President Trump endorsed his opponent.
Since then, things have gone very much awry. Five women have said Moore pursued them when they were teenagers and he was in his 30s; two of them, including one woman who said she was just 14 at the time, have said Moore sexually abused them; the National Republican Senatorial Committee has cut Moore off and its leader called for him to be expelled from the Senate even if he wins; nearly every Republican senator who endorsed Moore has withdrawn their endorsement; recent polls have shown him neck-and-neck with the Democratic candidate, Doug Jones; and on Tuesday night, the Republican National Committee pulled their support from him.
How a Non-Incumbent GOP Winner in Virginia Stayed Above Water
The cascade of revelations has forced Breitbart to double down when nearly everyone else is abandoning Moore, and is testing the kingmaker image Bannon has been trying to build for the 2018 midterms.
Bannon has remained publicly defiant, casting the allegations as a coordinated smear of Moore and sending two reporters to Alabama. But a Bannon ally confirmed to me that behind the scenes, Bannon has been sounding people out about how to handle the Moore situation. (This source and others quoted in this article spoke on condition of anonymity in order to speak freely about internal conversations.)
The Daily Beast reported on Tuesday that Bannon had told his inner circle he would “put [Moore] in a grave myself” if it turned out Moore had been lying to him about the accusations—Moore insists they are false—and had been “taking the temperature” of allies to see how they thought he should proceed. And internally, some in Bannon’s circle have expressed concern at the unrelenting nature of the scandal and indicated they’re more worried than they appear to be publicly, according to a source with knowledge of these conversations.
Another source close to Bannon pushed back on the Daily Beast report and said Bannon still “stands by Judge Moore 1000 percent” and plans to send more reporters to Alabama, adding that there’s “zero chance” Bannon and Breitbart will back down. Bannon is, this person said, scheduled to appear at a rally organized by Moore’s friend and adviser Dean Young on December 5. Bannon is in Japan this week giving a speech.
“There’s healthy debate about the whole thing, that’s the way Breitbart is on anything,” the source said, referring to internal conversations about the Moore story. “There’s not strong disagreement in any sense of the word.”
Bannon has compared the Moore allegations to the Access Hollywood tape that leaked a month before the presidential election, which showed Trump bragging to TV host Billy Bush about groping women and kissing them against their will. The tape caused a similar political firestorm, with many top Republicans pulling their support of the nominee. Trump did apologize for his comments but stayed mostly defiant; in a move orchestrated by Bannon, the campaign brought four women who had accused Bill Clinton of sexual misconduct to the debate that was held shortly after the story broke. Despite being abandoned by much of his party’s establishment, Trump won.
Bannon speaks often of “Billy Bush weekend” and sees it as the ultimate litmus test of who was with or against them during the campaign. The story appeared to vindicate Bannon’s strategy of never compromising under pressure. But the Moore story is different from the Access Hollywood tape in key ways. As vulgar as Trump was on the tape, Trump and his allies insisted it was regrettable but ultimately harmless “locker-room talk,” despite the number of women who came out afterwards saying Trump had harassed them. Moore’s denials have done nothing to tamp down the furor, in part because he has appeared to acknowledge the stories have some truth to them even as he denies the most explosive charges.
Moore equivocated in a radio interview with Sean Hannity last week, saying that he did “not generally” remember dating teenage girls that “if I did, I’m not going to dispute anything, but I don’t remember anything like that.” Since then, Moore has denied knowing the latest accuser despite the fact that she has an old high school yearbook that bears his signature.
“Nobody’s going to try to say that the Moore campaign is handling this well,” one of the sources close to Bannon said.
Another friend of Bannon’s said they still believe Moore will win.
“It’s too much too quick, the establishment is overkilling on this,” the friend said. “I don’t think it stops him from being elected. It’s only grist to our mill if they stop him” from being seated in the Senate.   
On the other hand, a Moore loss or withdrawal—or even a win followed by possible expulsion from the Senate—would offer grist to the mill of Bannon’s critics heading into next year’s primary battles.
“Hopefully this isn’t playing out next year,” said Chris Pack, communications director for the Senate Leadership Fund, a McConnell-connected super PAC which backed Strange in the runoff and which has aggressively gone after Bannon. Pack pointed to the Republican megadonor Sheldon Adelson distancing himself from Bannon on Monday. “Donors are already walking away from Bannon—and Alabama is ‘Exhibit A’ as to why. While everyone else was talking about tax reform last Friday, Bannon’s minions were on TV talking about the age of consent for sexual relationships with teenage girls. That hasn’t gone unnoticed by many.” (After the initial Washington Post story came out, Breitbart California editor Joel Pollak said on TV that the women who were 16 and 18 at the time shouldn’t have been included in the story because they were of legal age to consent.)
Bannon’s defenders maintain that the Moore story won’t damage Bannon’s political efforts going forward.
When Bannon initially got involved, “I don’t think anybody in the world would have said ‘Come on Bannon, he’s obviously a sexual predator,’” one of the Bannon friends said. “I don’t think anybody’s going to be able to say, ‘See, we told you so.’”
Breitbart quickly claimed credit after Moore won the runoff in September. Pollak wrote that “what Bannon showed on Tuesday was that Trump’s agenda transcends elections” and “Tuesday’s result proved the enduring power and reach of Breitbart News.”
But Moore had been building a political base in Alabama well before Bannon came along, and it’s that base that is keeping him alive in the race for now.
“The idea that Bannon had anything to do with Roy Moore winning the nomination in the first place is risible,” said Quin Hillyer, an Alabama-based conservative writer and activist. “Bannon came in late, Moore was already going to win that race.”


During his testimony before the House Intelligence Committee, Attorney General Jeff Sessions defended his past statements about Russia and the Trump campaign. When asked about the sexual-misconduct allegations against Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, Sessions said he has “no reason to doubt” Moore’s accusers. In another House hearing, two female lawmakers accused sitting male lawmakers of sexual harassment and misconduct. Senate Republicans announced that they will include a provision to repeal the Affordable Care Act’s individual insurance mandate in their tax bill. And the federal judge overseeing the bribery trial of Democratic Senator Robert Menendez encouraged jurors to take their time reaching a verdict, after the group was deadlocked on Monday.
‘The Making of an American Nazi’: In our December cover story, Luke O’Brien describes how Andrew Anglin, the publisher of the world’s biggest neo-Nazi website, became one of the alt-right’s most vicious trolls.
Breitbart v. Breitbart: Andrew Breitbart once said that “politics is downstream from culture.” But the website he created has since “shaped a culture on the populist right that has proven deeply corrosive”—and destroyed his legacy in the process. (Conor Friedersdorf)
Benefiting From Affirmative Action: Reflecting on his tenure at the New Republic, Peter Beinart asks himself what kind of journalistic career he would have had without affirmative action: “A less successful one, probably.”
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

What Happens Now?: As allegations against Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore continue to mount, the state’s Republican Party has to decide whether to drop him or stand by him. (Cameron Joseph, Talking Points Memo)
Much Ado About Uranium: Attorney General Jeff Sessions is considering appointing a special counsel to investigate, among other things, allegations that Hillary Clinton made a uranium deal with Russia. But the scandal is a myth. (Zeeshan Aleem, Vox)
What’s in a Name?: Both Donald Trump’s allies and opponents make use of the term “Trumpism” to define the president’s ideology. But, Roger Kimball argues, Trumpism doesn’t actually exist. (American Greatness)
Capitol Hill ‘Creep List’: More than 50 lawmakers, former and current Hill aides, and politics veterans share stories of sexual harassment on Capitol Hill. (CNN)
Misunderstanding the Second Amendment: How did the United States become a country where people believe it’s their right to own an assault-style weapon? The answer lies in how Americans’ definition of freedom has changed.  (Elizabeth Bruenig, The Washington Post)
Grieving in a Fishbowl: In this short video, Olivia Merrion documents how the survivors of mass shootings are approached by members of the media and asked to recount details of their experiences over and over. (The Center for Investigative Reporting)
In this dispatch from Seattle, The Atlantic’s Olga Khazan describes the city’s plans to open a new safe-injection facility for heroin addicts in an attempt to make it safer for them to quit. But critics say it actually makes it easier for users to stay addicted.
Do you think this is an effective strategy for addressing the country’s escalating opioid epidemic? Do you see it as necessary—or as enabling?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


It was three hours into his testimony before the House Judiciary Committee that the questions finally seemed to get to Jeff Sessions. Hakeem Jeffries, a New York Democrat, was pressing the attorney general on discrepancies between his past testimony about Trump campaign contacts with Russia and his current story. Jeffries asked Sessions about his frequent statements that he could not recall certain things, his vote to remove former President Bill Clinton from office for perjury, and an assertion in 2016 that falsely claiming not to recall something constituted perjury.
“Nobody, not you or anyone else, not me, should be accused of perjury for answering the question the way I did in this hearing,” an indignant Sessions said. “I’ve always tried to answer the questions fairly and accurately.”
Jeff Sessions's Selective Memory
Judgments on that assertion differ widely, largely following party lines, as the hearing demonstrated. Although he received a few softballs from committee members, Sessions was mostly subjected to a barrage of questions: from Democrats questioning his honesty in describing Trump campaign contacts with Russia; from Republicans who want to see a special-counsel investigation into Hillary Clinton; from African American Democrats livid over an FBI report on “Black Identity Extremists”; and from Republicans at odds with the Trump administration over renewing NSA warrantless-wiretapping provisions.
Sessions staunchly defended his honesty about Russia, despite having to repeatedly revise his accounts. “I’ve always told the truth,” he said in his opening statement. Citing the chaos of the campaign, he said he hadn’t recalled recently revealed interactions regarding Russia with Trump staffers Carter Page and George Papadopoulos, both of whom were in contact with Russian officials during the campaign.
“All of you have been in a campaign. But most of you have not participated in a presidential campaign. And none of you had a part in the Trump campaign,” Sessions said. “It was a brilliant campaign in many ways, but it was a form of chaos every day from day one. We traveled all the time, sometimes to several places in one day. Sleep was in short supply … I have been asked to remember details from a year ago, such as who I saw on what day, in what meeting, and who said what when.”
At his confirmation hearings in January, Sessions told Senator Al Franken, “I did not have communications with the Russians, and I’m unable to comment on it.” That turned out not to be true: Sessions had met with then-Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak twice during the campaign, one at the Republican National Convention. Later, in October, he told Franken that with regards to the question of whether any campaign surrogates had been in touch with the Russians, “I did not, and I’m not aware of anyone else that did, and I don’t believe it happened.”
However, two new developments suggested that was untrue. First, in a guilty plea, former Trump campaign aide George Papadopoulos admitted attending a March 31, 2016, meeting with both Sessions and Donald Trump in which he said he could arrange a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The same week, staffer Carter Page testified to the House Intelligence Committee that he had mentioned an impending trip to Russia to Sessions after a June dinner.
Faced with these revelations, Sessions had to strike a nuanced position: He told the House panel on Tuesday that on the one hand he sincerely had not recalled the meeting with Papadopoulos until recent press reports, but that he had also acted decisively, in the meeting that he had forgotten, to push back on Papadopoulos, and to tell him he was not authorized to speak to the Russians on behalf of the campaign. (Sessions said he had no recollection of his conversation with Page, which Page said was very brief.)
Democrat after Democrat hammered Sessions on his previous testimony, and time after time, Sessions either insisted that his prior remarks, if inaccurate, had been simply the product of misremembering. In other cases, he filibustered on answers, taking advantage of the tight five-minute time limit for each member to ask questions. Many Democrats asked Sessions to answer questions with yes or no, and he repeatedly protested that he could not.
Democrat Zoe Lofgren quizzed Sessions, who chaired the Trump campaign’s national-security committee, on whether he was aware of fired National-Security Adviser Michael Flynn’s contacts with Kislyak, his work on behalf of the Turkish government, or his involvement in a supposed plot to kidnap the Turkish cleric Fethullah Gulen, who currently resides in Pennsylvania, and bundle him off to Turkey. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has accused Gulen of fomenting a coup and has sought his extradition from the U.S. Sessions said he was unaware of such a scheme.
In March, just after his own meetings with Kislyak were revealed, Sessions abruptly announced he would “recuse myself from any existing or future investigations of any matters related in any way to the campaigns for president of the United States,” in part replying to the political furor. (Committee Chair Bob Goodlatte kicked the hearing off by telling Sessions he disagreed with that decision.) Two months later, President Trump fired James Comey, and Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, decided to appoint Robert Mueller as a special counsel, with far-reaching results.
As Mueller’s probe heats up, including the Papadopoulos plea and indictments of former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort and former Trump campaign aide Rick Gates, many Republicans and conservative pundits have begun loudly demanding that the Justice Department appoint a special counsel to investigate several matters related to Hillary Clinton, including the DOJ’s process for investigating her use of a private email server and a Russian uranium deal. On Monday, The Washington Post revealed a letter from Sessions to Goodlatte in which he said the department was considering appointing a special counsel.
But in Tuesday’s hearing, Sessions seemed cool to the idea. One of the sharpest exchanges of the day was between Jim Jordan, a hardline conservative from Ohio, and Sessions. With a long wind up of innuendo, Jordan asked Sessions what it would take to get a special counsel appointed.
“It would take a factual basis that meets the standards of the appointment of a special counsel,” Sessions said. After Jordan pressed further, Sessions replied, somewhat testily, “You can have your idea but sometimes we have to study what the facts are and to evaluate whether it meets the standards that require a special counsel.”
Of course, some Democrats insisted that the decision was not Sessions’s to make, citing his recusal.
“Now, for my yes or no question, are you recused from investigations that involve Secretary Clinton?” Ranking Democrat John Conyers asked.
“I cannot answer that yes or no because under the policies of the Department of Justice, to announce recusal in any investigation would reveal the existence of that investigation and the top ethics officials have advised me I should not do so,” Sessions replied.
Later in the hearing, Representative Matt Gaetz, a Florida Republican, tried to pin Sessions down more specifically on his recusal. Was he authorized to appoint a special counsel on the Uranium One case, Gaetz wondered? Sessions said he believed so. Gaetz then asked whether Sessions had the authority to appoint a special counsel to investigate whether the FBI paid Christopher Steele, the former British intelligence agent who compiled a dossier of allegations against Donald Trump. Sessions hesitated, saying he had that authority if he was not recused, but he demurred on whether that was the case, saying ethics officials had advised him not to say when he was and was not recused.
Sessions said he could not say whether the FBI paid Steele, both because of an ongoing investigation and because the answer might reveal classified information. Sessions also told Democrat Ted Deutch he was not able to say whether Trump could fire Mueller if he wanted, or whether Trump could fire specific members of Mueller’s team. Under further questioning from Deutch, he also declined to say whether the president could pardon people in the Russia investigation, including family members or people not yet charged.
Several Democrats expressed concern about statements by the president, both during the campaign, when he told Hillary Clinton during a debate that if he were elected he would have her investigated, and later, especially several tweets in which he lambasted Sessions and called on the Justice Department to investigate her. “When Richard Nixon spoke about us this way at least he had the decency to do it behind closed doors,” said Conyers, who boasted he had been on 37th president’s enemies list.
“The Department of Justice can never be used to retaliate politically against opponents and that would be wrong,” Sessions said. “I would say it’s improper to influence—a president cannot improperly influence an investigation, and I have not been improperly influenced and would not be improperly influenced.”
There was unusual unanimity among Republicans, Democrats, and Sessions on the need for careful defense of American voting systems against foreign interference.
Yet some of the most interesting exchanges had nothing do with Russia. Several Republicans, led by Wisconsin’s James Sensenbrenner, sparred with Sessions over wireless wiretaps. Congress has favored new rules that somewhat limit the executive branch, while the Trump administration has pushed for broad leeway. Texas Republican Ted Poe suggested the intelligence community should not be given the benefit of the doubt. Citing Edward Snowden’s revelations, Poe said, “We know we can’t trust the NSA.”
Meanwhile, several black Democrats questioned Sessions closely about the “Black Extremist Identity” report, revealed by Foreign Policy in October. Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas likened it to the FBI’s infamous COINTELPRO, which targeted civil-rights activists, among others.
Sessions told Karen Bass of California he had not read the report, adding, “I’m not sure how that report got ordered. I don’t believe I explicitly ordered or directed it.” Bass asked Sessions whether he was aware of “white identity extremists” and whether there was an FBI report into them. Sessions said yes, but “it’s not coming to me at this moment.” Bass suggested the sovereign-citizen movement to Sessions and said that the groups cited in the FBI report were 30 to 40 years old. She cited widespread concern among activists about federal repression and asked Sessions to review it.
Cedric Richmond, the chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, who testified against Sessions’s confirmation, also interrogated the attorney general over protection of voting rights and also whether Sessions had any African Americans among his top staff at DOJ. Sessions said there were not any.
The importance of Tuesday’s hearing will depend in part upon whether future revelations force Sessions to once again revise his statements about his and the Trump campaign’s interactions with Russia. Such a revision would further call his candor into question.
In recent days, a rumor has circulated that Republicans might try to stand Sessions as a write-in candidate against beleaguered Alabama U.S. Senate candidate Roy Moore, who is running for the seat Sessions vacated. That would be highly unconventional, and Sessions’s aides have said he is not interested in leaving the Justice Department.
Still, after some five hours of tough questioning from both sides of the aisle, Sessions must have felt at least a little bit wistful about his days in the Senate, when he got to be the one asking, rather than answering, the questions.


Updated on November 14 at 5:09 p.m. ET
Republicans are taking another run at the Affordable Care Act as part of their overhaul of the tax code.
Bowing to pressure from President Trump, Senate leaders announced on Tuesday afternoon that they would add the repeal of Obamacare’s individual insurance mandate to the far-reaching tax bill they unveiled last week. It’s a high-risk, high-reward maneuver for the GOP, which has struck out in its previous attempts to dismantle the health law. If successful, the move could be a two-for-the-price-of-one policy victory for a party desperate to energize its voters heading into a difficult campaign year. But GOP leaders have previously warned that it could backfire, jeopardizing complicated negotiations over a tax bill and compounding what is already a heavy political lift.
Even as he confirmed the effort on Tuesday, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell seemed less than assured it would succeed. “We’re optimistic that inserting the individual mandate repeal would be helpful,” he told reporters after Republicans senators discussed the issue over lunch.
The main argument for scrapping the insurance requirement as part of the tax bill is to solve a math problem. As currently written, the Senate bill costs the government too much money and couldn’t pass under the budget reconciliation rules Republicans are using to skirt a Democratic filibuster. While repealing the mandate technically reduces taxes on Americans who choose to pay a penalty rather than buy health insurance, the Congressional Budget Office has projected that zeroing out the penalty would actually boost federal revenues by $338 billion over a decade. That would help Republicans pay for their tax cuts—a point made by Trump in a tweet touting the move on Monday.
The Republican Tax Bills Are About to Shrink
But the political risk to the GOP lies in the reason why repealing the mandate would save money: According to the CBO, 13 million fewer people would have health insurance as a result, including many who would have received government subsidies. And millions more could eventually face higher premiums, since removing the requirement that people buy coverage would shrink the insurance pool and force insurers to raise prices. Inserting that provision would put immense pressure on the three Republicans who torpedoed the party’s effort to pass a “skinny” repeal over the summer, Senators Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, and John McCain of Arizona, along with others who opposed efforts to dismantle the health law without simultaneously replacing it.
“Make no mistake, repealing the individual mandate is tantamount to repealing the Affordable Care Act,” said Brad Woodhouse, campaign director for Protect Our Care, an advocacy group supportive of the ACA. “And as such it would be wise for those few Republicans in the House and Senate who said ‘no’ to previous efforts at repeal to say ‘hell no’ to this one.”
Republicans tried to get out in front of the criticism by characterizing the mandate repeal as part of their effort to reduce the tax burden on middle- and lower-income Americans. “We’re going to reduce the tax on poor Americans,” Senator John Cornyn of Texas said, omitting the fact that people under a certain income threshold are exempt from the Obamacare requirement.
The Senate Finance Committee is expected to add the mandate repeal to the tax bill later on Tuesday. But whether it makes it across the floor when the full Senate considers the bill during the week after Thanksgiving remains unclear. None of the Republicans in question sit on the committee, and conservative activists have raised doubts about whether the measure could get the necessary 50 votes. “I personally think that complicates tax reform to put the repeal of the individual mandate in there,” Collins told reporters on Tuesday. Still, she wouldn’t rule out supporting a tax bill that included repeal. “I am going to wait and see what the bill says,” she said.
In a bid to win over those members, GOP leaders are reportedly considering holding a separate vote on bipartisan legislation to stabilize the Obamacare market in the short term. Not surprisingly, that possibility is angering Democrats who do not want to see the measure paired with another attempt to roll back the law. “I’m really hopeful we don’t go down that path,” said Senator Patty Murray of Washington state, the Democratic co-author of the bipartisan bill. “That is the exact opposite of what we should be doing.”
The House would also have to agree to eliminate the mandate, and prospects in the lower chamber are also uncertain. Right now, GOP leaders are confident that their version of the tax bill—which does not touch Obamacare—will pass when it comes up for a vote on Thursday. But some lawmakers supportive of tax reform are balking at going after Obamacare at the same time, especially when the debate over the law had already shifted toward a bipartisan proposal shoring up its individual market.
While the mandate has never been popular, support for the broader law helped Democrats win the governor’s race in Virginia and make large gains in the state House of Delegates last week. A ballot measure expanding Medicaid under the ACA passed by a wide margin in Maine. “It would be an absolute wrong approach to take on tax reform,” Representative Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania told me last week when I asked him about adding a repeal of the individual mandate to tax reform. Dent had been supportive of the tax bill but voted against proposals to repeal Obamacare.
Republican leaders know they’re risking the success of one top legislative priority by pairing it with another. They could end up mobilizing Democratic activists who’ve had a tougher time ginning up the same level of grassroots opposition to the tax bill as rose up during the health-care debate. “If the American people weren’t already outraged by this bill, injecting health care into it will certainly do the trick,” warned Senator Charles Schumer of New York, the Democratic minority leader.
It’s possible they’ll have to drop the mandate repeal later in the legislative process. But for now, the possibility of achieving two major policy goals in a single bill is too enticing for Republicans to pass up.


Donald Trump Jr.’s private exchanges with WikiLeaks on Twitter during the 2016 campaign raise a host of new questions about the Trump team’s communications with foreign entities before the election. But the messages alone don’t appear to cross any clear-cut legal lines.
“I certainly didn’t see anything that looks like a smoking gun in the descriptions that we were given,” Rick Hasen, a University of California, Irvine, law professor who specializes in election law, told me.
The Secret Correspondence Between Donald Trump Jr. and WikiLeaks
My colleague Julia Ioffe reported Monday that Trump Jr. exchanged multiple private messages on Twitter with the radical transparency organization before the election. In some cases, Trump Jr. appeared to act on requests from the group. In one instance, for example, he tweeted a link it had sent his way. A message posted by his father’s account soon after the group contacted Trump Jr. also mentioned WikiLeaks. The messaging, which WikiLeaks initiated during the election and continued as recently as July, was not previously known to the public.
The earliest known conversations came as WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange and his organization were under immense scrutiny for their role in disseminating stolen Democratic emails. U.S. intelligence agencies later concluded that Russian government hackers laundered the emails through Assange’s website to damage Hillary Clinton’s presidential bid and bolster Donald Trump’s chances.
Most of the public discussion about the Russia investigation centers on the question of collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign to undermine Clinton. But “collusion” isn’t a specific crime under federal law. Instead, legal experts have questioned whether any Trump campaign officials may have violated a campaign-finance statute that bars foreigners from donating money or any other “thing of value” to a campaign. That same provision also forbids campaign officials from soliciting such a donation.
“If I’m a foreign citizen and I give a thousand dollars to the campaign, then that’s a thing of value,” Hasen explained. “If I provide a dossier, that also could be [a thing of value]. And so the question that came up during the last Don Jr. controversy was whether providing dirt on Hillary Clinton—opposition research—could be a thing of value for purposes of the statute.”
That debate first arose in July when The New York Times revealed that Trump Jr., his brother-in-law Jared Kushner, and then-campaign Chairman Paul Manafort met with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya in Trump Tower in June 2016 after she promised “information helpful to the campaign” about Clinton. Trump Jr. denied any wrongdoing and said that Veselnitskaya, who has ties to the Kremlin, provided no such information to them.
The Twitter conversations made public so far don’t show deliberate solicitation of WikiLeaks’s help on the part of Trump Jr. The closest he came to such a request was on October 3, 2016, when he asked WikiLeaks, “What’s behind this Wednesday leak I keep reading about?” (Roger Stone, an occasional Trump adviser, had tweeted “Wednesday@HillaryClinton is done. #WikiLeaks.” the day before.) Indeed, it was WikiLeaks that solicited from Trump Jr. throughout the exchanges—asking for his father’s tax returns, highlighting links for Trump Jr. to tweet, and even suggesting that the elder Trump publicly float Assange as a possible Australian ambassador to the United States.
Even if the exchanges did show Trump Jr. soliciting damaging information from WikiLeaks, federal prosecutors could run into difficulty pursuing charges for violating foreign-spending rules. “Assange is or could be considered a journalist, and we might have different rules for foreign-news media,” Hasen explained. “Certainly that’s how domestic campaign-finance law works, where we treat media differently than others.” And while he believes that a “thing of value” under the statute can include opposition research or stolen emails, that view isn’t unanimous among legal experts. He cited arguments made in July by Eugene Volokh, a UCLA law professor, that such a broad interpretation of the term could run afoul of the First Amendment.
Trump Jr.’s messages also show WikiLeaks providing him with the login information of an anti-Trump website. “A PAC run anti-Trump site putintrump.org is about to launch,” the account wrote to Trump Jr. “The PAC is a recycled pro-Iraq war PAC. We have guessed the password. It is ‘putintrump.’ See ‘About’ for who is behind it. Any comments?” Trump Jr. replied that he would “ask around” about the website’s provenance.
But Trump Jr. doesn’t indicate whether he actually used the password. Orin Kerr, a George Washington University law professor who specializes in computer-crime law, said that doing so would violate the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. “If anyone actually entered in the username and password or entered in the password to the website, that’s a federal crime,” he said. “And whoever would have passed on the email with the intent that someone else use it is committing a crime.”
Prosecutions under the CFAA are relatively uncommon. Kerr estimated that federal prosecutors use it to bring charges between 100 and 120 times a year. Using a stolen password to gain unauthorized access can be a felony if it’s used to further another crime, he added. But what matters under the statute is a potential defendant’s intent when accessing a computer system without permission.
“The criminal law is very focused not just on what somebody did, but on what they were thinking and what they wanted to achieve,” Kerr explained. “That could be established by the emails and messages associated with it from the context. You don’t need him saying, ‘I have an intent to further this.’ It could be, ‘Hey can somebody check into this?’ or ‘Can somebody try this out?’”
Even if the messages don’t directly show criminal behavior, Hasen said he found their contents troubling. On Election Night, when Clinton still seemed likely to prevail, WikiLeaks encouraged Trump Jr. to urge then-candidate Trump to cast doubt on the electoral outcome “if your father ‘loses.’” The elder Trump had spent the weeks before Election Day claiming without evidence that the vote was rigged, only to drop the allegations after he won. “We think it is much more interesting if he DOES NOT conceed [sic] and spends time CHALLENGING the media and other types of rigging that occurred—as he has implied that he might do,” WikiLeaks wrote. Trump Jr. did not respond.
“We were already worried that Trump wouldn’t concede if he lost and that this could undermine the legitimacy of our democracy and the electoral process, and here’s a foreign citizen egging him on,” Hasen said. “That’s very disturbing.”


On the populist right, the late Andrew Breitbart, a man regarded as an influential hero, is best remembered for these words: “Politics is downstream from culture.” Byron York wrote in the Washington Examiner that teaching that lesson was “by far the most important thing he did.” He quoted Breitbart:
The people who have money, every four years at the last possible second, are told, “You need to give millions of dollars, because these four counties in Ohio are going to determine the election.” I am saying, why didn’t we invest 20 years ago in a movie studio in Hollywood, why didn’t we invest in creating television shows, why didn’t we create institutions that would reflect and affirm that which is good about America?
Now Steve Bannon leads the institution that Andrew Breitbart created. Prior to Donald Trump’s rise, he deliberately positioned Breitbart News as a platform for the alt-right. As National Review ran the artful prose of Kevin D. Williamson and the Weekly Standard published the incisive cultural criticism of Andrew Ferguson, Bannon and Breitbart worked to elevate Milo Yiannopolous to cultural prominence.
Later, during the height of the Republican primaries, #NeverTrump conservatives insisted that stopping Trump was important for the sake of U.S. culture.
As David French put it:
The true battle for our country isn’t political, it’s cultural and spiritual. In an era where fidelity and integrity are in increasingly short supply—with the breakdown of faith and family the chief factors in the struggles among America’s most vulnerable citizens—how can I responsibly cast a vote to give one of the nation’s foremost cultural platforms to a man who has openly, loudly, and unrepentantly bragged of his adulterous sexual conquests?
How can I support a man who demonstrates such a breathtaking level of malice and cruelty in his treatment of fellow citizens? Our nation can survive lost elections, but over the long term it cannot survive a decayed culture. And by God I won’t vote for a man who takes a wrecking ball to the core values I hold dear.
But Breitbart championed Trump’s reality-TV candidacy, and Bannon took a break from leading the website to join the vulgar campaign and then the Trump administration.  
Now, most recently, National Review and the Weekly Standard reacted to allegations that Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore preyed on teenage women while in his 30s by arguing that there are more important things in the world than electing one more Republican. A National Review article by the columnist Katherine Timpf was headlined, “If You Refuse to Condemn Predators Because of Their Politics You’re Disgusting.”
And at the same moment, Bannon dispatched two Breitbart staffers to Alabama to try to cast doubt on the woman who claimed she was groped by Moore when she was 14, and continued urging Alabama voters to send Moore to the United States Senate, rather than his Democratic opponent, a former U.S. attorney who prosecuted Klan members for the bombing of a black church in Birmingham.
It was an approach mirrored by Republican politicians in Alabama, many of whom also came to Moore’s defense. “Take Joseph and Mary. Mary was a teenager and Joseph was an adult carpenter. They became parents of Jesus. There’s just nothing immoral or illegal here,” said Alabama State Auditor Jim Zeigler. “If they believe this man is predatory, they are guilty of allowing him to exist for 40 years,” Alabama State Representative Ed Henry said. “I think someone should prosecute and go after them. You can’t be a victim 40 years later, in my opinion.” Bibb County Republican chairman Jerry Pow distanced himself from Moore’s acts, but stood by his support. “I would vote for Judge Moore because I wouldn’t want to vote for Doug. I’m not saying I support what he did.”
Andrew Breitbart may have said that “politics is downstream from culture.” He may have believed it. I have argued in the past that he did not practice what he preached. Others argued upon his death that the sites he created would be his legacy.
Today, Breitbart has done more than any other website to push the right in a direction where political victories are prioritized even when those victories mean the cultural elevation of men like Donald Trump and Roy Moore, who no responsible parent would want as role models for their sons—or as babysitters for their daughters. Whether Breitbart courted the alt-right and elevated these candidates for lucre, or political power, or to make the culture more bigoted and depraved, or to nihilistically destroy America as it exists under the delusion that it can then remake the nation it as it wishes, its influence has profoundly changed the GOP.
As my colleague David Graham asked when news of the allegations against Moore first broke, “If the party’s members can’t bring themselves to set aside narrow partisan interest and condemn a man whom they despise, with a track record of bigotry, and with multiple on-the-record accusations of improper sexual misconduct with underage women, what behavior and which candidate can they possibly rule out in the future?”
Breitbart’s influenced has helped to change the grassroots too, as Robert Jones argued in Time:
In 2011 and again just ahead of the election, PRRI asked Americans whether a political leader who committed an immoral act in his or her private life could nonetheless behave ethically and fulfill their duties in their public life. Back in 2011, consistent with the “values voter” brand’s insistence on the importance of personal character, only 30 percent of white evangelical Protestants agreed with this statement. But this year, 72 percent of white evangelicals now say they believe a candidate can build a kind of moral wall between his private and public life. In a shocking reversal, white evangelicals have gone from being the least likely to the most likely group to agree that a candidate’s personal immorality has no bearing on his performance in public office. Today, in fact, they are more likely than Americans who claim no religious affiliation at all to say such a moral bifurcation is possible.
This about-face is stunning, especially against the backdrop of white evangelicals’ outrage in response to Bill Clinton’s indiscretions in the 1990s.
As Jonathan Merritt documented, Pat Robertson called Bill Clinton a “debauched, debased, and defamed” politician. But this year, Robertson’s Christian Broadcasting Network featured multiple friendly interviews with Trump—the candidate who bragged about sexually assaulting women and appeared on the cover of Playboy. And Robertson had this to say directly to Trump: “You inspire us all.” The Trump era has effectively turned white-evangelical political ethics on its head. Rather than standing on principle and letting the chips fall where they may, white evangelicals have now fully embraced a consequentialist ethics that works backward from predetermined political ends, refashioning or even discarding principles as needed to achieve a desired outcome.
As my colleague Caitlin Flanagan notes, the legacy of Bill Clinton has caused many on the left to do their own about-face with regard to personal conduct and elective office, and a backward-looking reckoning with apologias since the 1990s is long overdue. The right’s task is more difficult because its most prominent badly behaved man is president now; because Breitbart, one of its most highly trafficked web sites, lacks a moral core; and because billionaire donors Robert and Rebekah Mercer seem willing to support politicians and publications deeply corrosive to America’s moral culture.
Things might have been different today if rather than starting a political website that spent its energy attacking the left, Andrew Breitbart and his earliest allies would’ve practiced what they preached, investing in a movie studio, television shows, and institutions “that would reflect and affirm that which is good about America.” Now, at the urging of Bannon, Breitbart, and Breitbart’s populist readers, the few political conservatives attempting a constructive cultural project are either attacked for their heretical political stances, or else they are ignored.
Politics is downstream of culture.
And Bannon and Breitbart helped shape a culture on the populist right where alt-right trolls and Republican candidates accused of sexual assault by multiple women were able to advance further in politics than anyone expected as recently as last year. The GOP can reverse course, or keep following Breitbart into a swamp of depravity.


Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, responded to The Atlantic’s disclosure of private communications between his group and Donald Trump Jr. by praising his organization for its “chutzpah” in attempting to take advantage of the president’s son.
The Secret Correspondence Between Donald Trump Jr. and WikiLeaks
On Monday afternoon, my colleague Julia Ioffe reported on the direct messages exchanged on Twitter between WikiLeaks and Trump Jr. WikiLeaks attempted to convince the president’s son to promote the hacked emails it had published, share his father’s tax returns, and, on Election Day, challenge the U.S. election results. A few hours later, Trump Jr. confirmed the report by posting the full chain of messages to Twitter, while downplaying its importance.
Assange, for his part, insisted that his organization was merely attempting to solicit leaks. “WikiLeaks appears to beguile some people into transparency by convincing them that it is in their interest,” Assange wrote on Twitter on Monday. He added that the message encouraging Trump to reject the election as rigged was intended “to generate a transformative discussion about corrupt media, corrupt PACs, and primary corruption.”
The Twitter conversation between WikiLeaks and Trump Jr., which began in late September 2016 and lasted through July 2017, showed the radical transparency organization soliciting Trump Jr.’s cooperation. It made requests of him multiple times, from asking him to share links to proposing that Assange be appointed as the Australian ambassador to the U.S. Twice, the organization implored Trump Jr. to give it his father’s tax returns, as well as his email conversations related to a 2016 meeting with Russian lawyer (which Trump Jr. posted to his own Twitter account in July). Trump Jr. initially responded, but the messages disclosed on Monday include no replies after early October to WikiLeaks’s increasingly bold requests.
Some Democratic lawmakers dismissed the explanations proffered by Assange and Trump Jr. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut wrote that the messages “seem to indicate Pres. Trump’s son was actively engaged and may have coordinated strategy with a known agent of the Russian government, WikiLeaks.” He called on Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley to subpoena Trump Jr.’s public testimony. “There seems to be no reasonable explanation for these messages,” Blumenthal told the AP.
Representative Adam Schiff of California, the ranking member on the House Intelligence Committee, wrote that the correspondence “demonstrates again a willingness by the highest levels of the Trump campaign to accept foreign assistance.”
The Trump administration, meanwhile, found itself facing another round of unwelcome questions. Vice President Mike Pence was asked in October 2016 whether the Trump campaign was “in cahoots” with WikiLeaks. “Nothing could be further from the truth,” he replied at the time. On Monday, his press secretary, Alyssa Farah, said, “The vice president was never aware of anyone associated with the campaign being in contact with Wikileaks. He first learned of this news from a published report earlier tonight.”


President Trump nominated former pharmaceutical executive Alex Azar to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. Lawmakers continued to withdraw their endorsements of Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore in light of allegations that Moore pursued teenage girls when he was in his 30s. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell called on Moore to drop out of the race. And later in the day, an Alabama woman accused Moore of sexual assaulting her when she was 16. The White House said Trump “briefly” touched on human rights during a private meeting with Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte in Manila, but a spokesman for Duterte said human rights were not discussed.
‘Strongly Suggest Your Dad Tweets This Link’: In private communications, WikiLeaks asked Donald Trump Jr. for his father’s tax returns, and urged the Trump campaign to challenge the election results. Read their secret correspondence here. (Julia Ioffe)
Making Things Right: Now that the American public has decided it will believe women’s accounts of sexual assault and workplace harassment, it’s time for Democrats to reckon with accusations against former President Bill Clinton. (Caitlin Flanagan)
The Case for the Estate Tax: Derek Thompson lays out the very bad arguments for ending the estate tax for good.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

What Is She Doing?: In her quest to understand Omarosa Manigault’s job in the Trump White House, reporter Elaina Plott shadowed the former reality-TV star. She didn’t learn much. (The Daily Beast)
‘One of the Most Secretive, Dark States’: An investigation by The Kansas City Star found several examples of the Kansas state government’s decreasing transparency. (Laura Bauer, Judy L. Thomas, and Max Londberg)
Hmmm: One of Donald Trump’s judicial nominees is married to a senior lawyer in the White House. He did not disclose that fact on a Senate questionnaire requiring him to list potential conflicts of interest. (Matt Apuzzo and Michael S. Schmidt, The New York Times)
Relics of the Third Reich: Here’s how a cache of Nazi propaganda—including four watercolor paintings by Adolf Hitler—ended up in a warehouse in Woodbridge, Virginia. (Andrew Beaujon, Washingtonian)
Roll Tide: George Will argues that Democrat Doug Jones’s hopes to beat Roy Moore in the Alabama Senate race rest entirely with “traditional white Democrats (scarce), Republicans capable of chagrin (scarcer), and African Americans.” (National Review)
What’s the Plan?: Under the Republican tax plan, most Americans would see a tax cut in 2018, but over time those cuts will get smaller for everyone except the richest 1 percent of earners. (Alicia Parlapiano and Jasmine C. Lee, The New York Times)
Trump Abroad: Check out the most memorable photos from President Trump’s 12-day trip across Asia. (Alan Taylor, The Atlantic)
In this dispatch from Seattle, The Atlantic’s Olga Khazan describes the city’s plans to open a new safe-injection facility for heroin addicts in an attempt to make it safer for them to quit. But critics say it actually makes it easier for users to stay addicted.
Do you think this is an effective strategy for addressing the country’s escalating opioid epidemic? Do you see it as necessary—or as enabling?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


This story was updated on November 13 at 10:28 pm
Just before the stroke of midnight on September 20, 2016, at the height of last year’s presidential election, the WikiLeaks Twitter account sent a private direct message to Donald Trump Jr., the Republican nominee’s oldest son and campaign surrogate. “A PAC run anti-Trump site putintrump.org is about to launch,” WikiLeaks wrote. “The PAC is a recycled pro-Iraq war PAC. We have guessed the password. It is ‘putintrump.’ See ‘About’ for who is behind it. Any comments?” (The site, which has since become a joint project with Mother Jones, was founded by Rob Glaser, a tech entrepreneur, and was funded by Progress for USA Political Action Committee.)
The next morning, about 12 hours later, Trump Jr. responded to WikiLeaks. “Off the record I don’t know who that is, but I’ll ask around,” he wrote on September 21, 2016. “Thanks.”
Did Manafort Use Trump to Curry Favor With a Putin Ally?
The messages, obtained by The Atlantic, were also turned over by Trump Jr.’s lawyers to congressional investigators. They are part of a long—and largely one-sided—correspondence between WikiLeaks and the president’s son that continued until at least July 2017. The messages show WikiLeaks, a radical transparency organization that the American intelligence community believes was chosen by the Russian government to disseminate the information it had hacked, actively soliciting Trump Jr.’s cooperation. WikiLeaks made a series of increasingly bold requests, including asking for Trump’s tax returns, urging the Trump campaign on Election Day to reject the results of the election as rigged, and requesting that the president-elect tell Australia to appoint Julian Assange ambassador to the United States.
“Over the last several months, we have worked cooperatively with each of the committees and have voluntarily turned over thousands of documents in response to their requests,” said Alan Futerfas, an attorney for Donald Trump Jr. “Putting aside the question as to why or by whom such documents, provided to Congress under promises of confidentiality, have been selectively leaked, we can say with confidence that we have no concerns about these documents and any questions raised about them have been easily answered in the appropriate forum.” WikiLeaks did not respond to requests for comment.
The messages were turned over to Congress as part of that body’s various ongoing investigations into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential campaign. American intelligence services have accused the Kremlin of engaging in a deliberate effort to boost President Donald Trump’s chances while bringing down his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton. That effort—and the president’s response to it—has spawned multiple congressional investigations, and a special counsel inquiry that has led to the indictment of Trump’s former campaign chair, Paul Manafort, for financial crimes.
It’s not clear what investigators will make of the correspondence, which represents a small portion of the thousands of documents Donald Trump Jr.’s lawyer says he turned over to them. The stakes for the Trump family, however, are high. Trump Jr.’s June 2016 meeting with Natalia Veselnitskaya, a Russian lawyer with connections to Russia’s powerful prosecutor general, is already reportedly a subject of interest in Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation, as is the White House statement defending him. (Trump Jr. was emailed an offer of “information that would incriminate Hillary,” and responded in part, “If it’s what you say I love it.”) The messages exchanged with WikiLeaks add a second instance in which Trump Jr. appears eager to obtain damaging information about Hillary Clinton, despite its provenance.   
Though Trump Jr. mostly ignored the frequent messages from WikiLeaks, he at times appears to have acted on its requests. When WikiLeaks first reached out to Trump Jr. about putintrump.org, for instance, Trump Jr. followed up on his promise to “ask around.” According to a source familiar with the congressional investigations into Russian interference with the 2016 campaign, who requested anonymity because the investigation is ongoing, on the same day that Trump Jr. received the first message from WikiLeaks, he emailed other senior officials with the Trump campaign, including Steve Bannon, Kellyanne Conway, Brad Parscale, and Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner, telling them WikiLeaks had made contact. Kushner then forwarded the email to campaign communications staffer Hope Hicks. At no point during the 10-month correspondence does Trump Jr. rebuff WikiLeaks, which had published stolen documents and was already observed to be releasing information that benefited Russian interests.
WikiLeaks played a pivotal role in the presidential campaign. In July 2016, on the first day of the Democratic National Convention, WikiLeaks released emails stolen from the Democratic National Committee's servers that spring. The emails showed DNC officials denigrating Bernie Sanders, renewing tensions on the eve of Clinton’s acceptance of the nomination. On October 7, less than an hour after the Washington Post released the Access Hollywood tape, in which Trump bragged about sexually assaulting women, Wikileaks released emails that hackers had pilfered from the personal email account of Clinton’s campaign manager John Podesta.
On October 3, 2016, WikiLeaks wrote again. “Hiya, it’d be great if you guys could comment on/push this story,” WikiLeaks suggested, attaching a quote from then-Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton about wanting to “just drone” WikiLeaks founder, Julian Assange.
“Already did that earlier today,” Trump Jr. responded an hour-and-a-half later. “It’s amazing what she can get away with.”
Two minutes later, Trump Jr. wrote again, asking, “What’s behind this Wednesday leak I keep reading about?” The day before, Roger Stone, an informal advisor to Donald Trump, had tweeted, “Wednesday@HillaryClinton is done. #WikiLeaks.”
WikiLeaks didn’t respond to that message, but on October 12, 2016, the account again messaged Trump Jr. “Hey Donald, great to see you and your dad talking about our publications,” WikiLeaks wrote. (At a rally on October 10, Donald Trump had proclaimed, “I love WikiLeaks!”)
“Strongly suggest your dad tweets this link if he mentions us,” WikiLeaks went on, pointing Trump Jr. to the link wlsearch.tk, which it said would help Trump’s followers dig through the trove of stolen documents and find stories. “There’s many great stories the press are missing and we’re sure some of your follows [sic] will find it,” WikiLeaks went on. “Btw we just released Podesta Emails Part 4.”
Trump Jr. did not respond to this message. But just 15 minutes after it was sent, as The Wall Street Journal’s Byron Tau pointed out, Donald Trump himself tweeted, “Very little pick-up by the dishonest media of incredible information provided by WikiLeaks. So dishonest! Rigged system!”
Two days later, on October 14, 2016, Trump Jr. tweeted out the link WikiLeaks had provided him. “For those who have the time to read about all the corruption and hypocrisy all the @wikileaks emails are right here: http://wlsearch.tk/,” he wrote.
After this point, Trump Jr. ceased to respond to WikiLeaks’s direct messages, but WikiLeaks escalated its requests.
“Hey Don. We have an unusual idea,” WikiLeaks wrote on October 21, 2016. “Leak us one or more of your father’s tax returns.” WikiLeaks then laid out three reasons why this would benefit both the Trumps and WikiLeaks. One, The New York Times had already published a fragment of Trump’s tax returns on October 1; two, the rest could come out any time “through the most biased source (e.g. NYT/MSNBC).”
It is the third reason, though, WikiLeaks wrote, that “is the real kicker.” “If we publish them it will dramatically improve the perception of our impartiality,” WikiLeaks explained. “That means that the vast amount of stuff that we are publishing on Clinton will have much higher impact, because it won’t be perceived as coming from a ‘pro-Trump’ ‘pro-Russia’ source.” It then provided an email address and link where the Trump campaign could send the tax returns, and adds, “The same for any other negative stuff (documents, recordings) that you think has a decent chance of coming out. Let us put it out.”
Trump Jr. did not respond to this message.
WikiLeaks didn’t write again until Election Day, November 8, 2016. “Hi Don if your father ‘loses’ we think it is much more interesting if he DOES NOT conceed [sic] and spends time CHALLENGING the media and other types of rigging that occurred—as he has implied that he might do,” WikiLeaks wrote at 6:35pm, when the idea that Clinton would win was still the prevailing conventional wisdom. (As late as 7:00pm that night, FiveThirtyEight, a trusted prognosticator of the election, gave Clinton a 71 percent chance of winning the presidency.) WikiLeaks insisted that contesting the election results would be good for Trump’s rumored plans to start a media network should he lose the presidency. “The discussion can be transformative as it exposes media corruption, primary corruption, PAC corruption, etc.,” WikiLeaks wrote.
Shortly after midnight that day, when it was clear that Trump had beaten all expectations and won the presidency, WikiLeaks sent him a simple message: “Wow.”
Trump Jr. did not respond to these messages either, but WikiLeaks was undeterred. “Hi Don. Hope you’re doing well!” WikiLeaks wrote on December 16 to Trump Jr., who was by then the son of the president-elect. “In relation to Mr. Assange: Obama/Clinton placed pressure on Sweden, UK and Australia (his home country) to illicitly go after Mr. Assange. It would be real easy and helpful for your dad to suggest that Australia appoint Assange ambassador to [Washington,] DC.”
WikiLeaks even imagined how Trump might put it: “‘That’s a real smart tough guy and the most famous australian [sic] you have!’ or something similar,” WikiLeaks wrote. “They won’t do it but it will send the right signals to Australia, UK + Sweden to start following the law and stop bending it to ingratiate themselves with the Clintons.” (On December 7, Assange, proclaiming his innocence, had released his testimony in front of London investigators looking into accusations that he had committed alleged sexual assault.)
In the winter and spring, WikiLeaks went largely silent, only occasionally sending Trump Jr. links. But on July 11, 2017, three days after The New York Times broke the story about Trump Jr.’s June 2016 meeting with Natalia Veselnitskaya, a Russian lawyer with connections to Russia’s powerful prosecutor general, WikiLeaks got in touch again.
“Hi Don. Sorry to hear about your problems,” WikiLeaks wrote. “We have an idea that may help a little. We are VERY interested in confidentially obtaining and publishing a copy of the email(s) cited in the New York Times today,” citing a reference in the paper to emails Trump Jr had exchanged with Rob Goldstone, a publicist who had helped set up the meeting. “We think this is strongly in your interest,” WikiLeaks went on. It then reprised many of the same arguments it made in trying to convince Trump Jr. to turn over his father’s tax returns, including the argument that Trump’s enemies in the press were using the emails to spin an unfavorable narrative of the meeting. “Us publishing not only deprives them of this ability but is beautifully confounding.”
The message was sent at 9:29 am on July 11. Trump Jr. did not respond, but just hours later, he posted the emails himself, on his own Twitter feed.


An Alabama woman says that Roy Moore, the Republican nominee for U.S. Senate in Alabama, sexually assaulted her in 1977 outside the restaurant where she worked in Gadsden, Alabama.
Beverly Young Nelson, who will turn 56 on Tuesday, said that when she was 16, Moore, a regular patron, offered her a ride home from work, then pulled his car around the back of the restaurant where he groped her, tried to force her head into his crotch, and tried to remove her shirt.
“I was alarmed and I immediately asked him what he was doing,” she said. “Instead of answering my questions, Mr. Moore reached over and began groping me and putting his hands on my breast. I tried to open my car door to leave but he reached over and he locked it.”
'I Believe the Women, Yes'
She added, “I thought he was going to rape me. I was twisting and I was struggling and I was begging him to stop.”
Eventually, she said, Moore gave up.
“He told me, he said, ‘You’re just a child,’ and he said, ‘I am the district attorney of Etowah County and if you tell anyone about this no one will ever believe you.’”
Nelson, who spoke at a press conference in New York alongside her attorney Gloria Allred, is the fifth woman to publicly describe Moore pursuing her as a teenager, and the second to accuse Moore of a crime. Last week, Leigh Corfman said that Moore had taken her to his house, removed some of his clothes, and guided her hand to touch his genitals over his underwear. The allegations have upended the Senate race, in which Moore, though controversial, was expected to defeat Democrat Doug Jones in the December election.
Nelson’s claims are particularly damaging because they allege a violent crime. Her recollection of Moore’s words is also chilling, as it represents an awareness of her status as a child even as he allegedly attempted sex with her, as well as a threat intended to keep her quiet.
Since the first allegations against Moore last week, his allies have painted them as politically motivated, and have asked why his accusers did not speak out publicly. Many accusers have cited Moore’s prominence in the community to explain their hesitation, as Nelson did Monday.
“I was scared,” she said. “I felt that if I told anyone, Mr. Moore would do something to me or my family.” She said she had been inspired to contact Allred and share her story after seeing Moore’s other alleged victims come forward.
Nelson said she told her sister about the incident two years later. She told her mother about four years ago, and she also told her now-husband before they married.
Nelson also displayed a yearbook that she says Moore asked to sign at the restaurant several days before the alleged assault. She said Moore was a regular at the Old Hickory House and had often complimented her looks and sometimes tugged at her long, red hair. She said she had not encouraged his flirtatious behavior, both because she had a boyfriend and because she was not interested in a relationship with an older man. Moore would have been 30 at the time of the assault.
The inscription in the yearbook reads, “To a sweeter more beautiful girl I could not say ‘Merry Christmas.’ Christmas 1977. Love Roy Moore DA, 12-22-27 Old Hickory House.” The writing appears similar to a more recent instance of Moore’s signature.
Nelson said that her statement “has nothing whatsoever to do with the Republicans or the Democrats,” and added that she and her husband both voted for President Trump.
Nelson’s harrowing statement will land with a thud in the Alabama race. Moore’s campaign, in a prebuttal, accused Allred of sensationalism. But the story adds to the number of allegations against Moore, and also begins to sketch a consistent modus operandi in targeting younger women. Other accusers described him as a frequent presence at the Gadsden Mall. (Corfman met him in court.) The violence of the alleged encounter also escalates the accusations.
Moore has denied Corfman’s account, but has not flatly ruled out having dated teenagers, and a former colleague told CNN that his pursuit of young women and girls was well known.
Senator Cory Gardner, a Colorado Republican who heads the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said Monday that Moore should withdraw from the race, and that if he does not, the Senate should vote to expel him. (Moore has twice been removed as chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court for defying federal courts.) Earlier on Monday, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell also said Moore should step down, saying of his accusers, “I believe the women.”
But many Republicans have rallied around Moore, insisting that the allegations are false or, in some cases, saying that even if the allegations are true, they still support him. Polls suggest a tightening race.


Man is a complex creature, and Donald Trump is no exception. The president is often willing to turn his ire on even his closest aides and allies, yet in other situations, he seems like he just wants to get along with everyone.
During his trip to Asia, Trump’s comments about and with Vladimir Putin and Rodrigo Duterte produced predictable revulsion. Speaking about Russian interference in the 2016 election, Trump delivered a puzzling series of statements apparently designed to muddy the waters, just as he did in July in Europe. “Every time he sees me, he says, ‘I didn’t do that,’” Trump said of Putin. “And I believe, I really believe, that when he tells me that, he means it.” In the face of pushback, Trump then said that he merely believed that Putin meant it—a meaningless piece of information if true, and why should we trust Putin anyway?—and that he believed intelligence agencies, now that his appointees and not “political hacks” control them, never mind that the conclusions have been the same: that Russia interfered.
Foreign Leaders Have Realized Trump Is a Pushover
With Duterte, Trump praised the brutal leader, said the two men had a “great relationship,” and chuckled as Duterte slammed reporters. Elsewhere on the trip, the press was shut out or given limited access. The White House said demands of other nations accounted for the media guidelines, but veterans of past administrations pointed out that the U.S. has demanded better access on earlier trips.
Trump’s affection for authoritarian leaders, amply demonstrated previously, explains this behavior in part but not in full. It’s not just that Trump is acquiescent with vicious or adversarial leaders. A man who rose to the presidency promising to get tough with other countries has shown himself to be strongly influenced by personal relationships. When push comes to shove, Trump’s personal reaction to someone often ends up being more important than his past rhetoric, the past relationships between countries, or the geopolitical stakes. It’s not an accident that claiming great relationships with foreign leaders is his go-to boast in the global sphere.
Presented with a smiling face, and even better an elaborate greeting, Trump tends to get all warm and fuzzy inside. “It was a red carpet like nobody, I think, has probably ever seen,” he said of the ASEAN summit. “Rodrigo, thank you very much for the way you treated all of us,” he told Duterte.
The way Trump privileges personal relationships comes through in the way he speaks about international alliances. Take, for example, his remarks with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Modi struck up an (unlikely) friendship with President Obama. In public remarks, Obama repeatedly mentioned their friendship, but always emphasized shared American-Indian connections. Appearing with Trump this weekend, Modi spoke the language of international diplomacy: “The relations between India and the United States are growing very rapidly with a great deal of speed. … And I also feel that and that these relations between India and the U.S., they are not just for our mutual interests, but they go much beyond that.”
Trump, however, focused almost entirely on the personal as he stood next to Modi. There was no mention of shared policy goals; it was all personal ties. “We’ve had him at the White House, and he’s become a friend of ours and a great gentleman doing a fantastic job in bringing around lots of factions in India—bringing them all together,” Trump said. “That’s what I hear, and that’s good news. And it really is. It’s a lot of good reports coming out of India. So I want to congratulate you.”
One result of this focus is that Trump often ends up going easy on foreign leaders, despite promising to be tough with them during his campaign and since. This has been clear in his approach to China, which he used as a central villain during the campaign. After meeting with President Xi Jinping, however, Trump suddenly sounded very different: He backed down on branding the country a currency manipulator, and reversed his insistence that China could solve the North Korea crisis if only it wanted to.
Xi’s method of persuasion—offering a friendly face—has proven highly effective for other foreign leaders, who have gradually realized that Trump’s desire to get along makes him an easy mark. Another frequent target of Trump’s ire is Mexico, but as I wrote in August, the leaked transcript of a phone call with Enrique Peña Nieto showed how the Mexican leader was able to back Trump down using smooth and conciliatory language.
The same pattern has recurred during the Asia trip. Trump tweeted that he did not blame China for the U.S. trade deficit, but rather incompetent American leadership for allowing it to happen. Meanwhile, his own team was acquiescing to a Chinese request that reporters not be allowed to ask questions.
Trump has also complained about the U.S. trade deficit with Vietnam, and accused the country of stealing U.S. jobs. Before meeting with President Trần Đại Quang, Trump did mention the topic of trade, but he was hardly critical. “We will be a great trade partner, and whether we’ll be treated fairly—past administrations didn’t understand trade and didn’t know too much about what was going on with trade,” he said. “But we do. But we also know how to do a lot of trade. So I think it’s going to very, very good for Vietnam.” He added: “We’re doing a lot of business with you in terms of your purchasing of materials and also purchasing of very substantial military equipment. And we appreciate that.”
Mostly, though, he was laudatory. “I appreciate the incredible rollout that they’ve given to the United States—not just the president of the United States, but the United States as a whole,” he said.
The personal touch overrides past rhetoric whether Trump’s interlocutor is the leader of an adversary or an ally. Prior to U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May’s visit, Trump had been unusually critical of Britain, America’s closest ally. When May came to Washington, however, the visit was all hugs and handholding. But that hasn’t prevented sparring between London and Washington since, especially over Trump’s quick weighing in on terrorist attacks in Britain.
On the flip side, a little bit of warmth goes a long way to overriding adversarial behavior. Despite Russia’s chilly recent relationships with the U.S., and its flagrant violations of international law in Ukraine, Trump has remained open to approaches from Putin. There are numerous possible explanations for this, and the growing number of documented contacts between Trump campaign staffers and Russian officials raise the question of whether the president has ulterior motives. But in the case of Putin, personal relationships seem to go a long way too. Putin’s positive statements about Trump during the presidential election made a great impact on the candidate, to judge by Trump’s repeated mentions of them.
Trump’s refusal to state clearly and publicly that he believes Russia meddled in the election stems in part from Trump’s fear that saying so would delegitimize his own victory one year ago. But he also seems conflict-averse, reluctant to take up an issue that might create interpersonal friction. Trump said one reason he is unwilling to press Putin any more on interference in the election is that “I think he is very insulted by it, which is not a good thing for our country.”
There is, of course, one issue where Trump has embraced confrontation: the North Korean nuclear crisis. Even there, however, Trump apparently yearns for a relationship. In a tweet on Saturday, the president called Kim Jong Un short and fat—and yet, in the next, plaintive sentence, confessed, “I try so hard to be his friend—and maybe someday that will happen!”
Insulting a nuclear-equipped leader’s height and fitness and calling him “Rocket Man” is an unusual way of striking up a relationship. But the desire to do so fits strongly with Trump’s general ethic with foreign leaders. With friends like them, who needs allies?


Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Monday became the highest-profile Republican to call on Roy Moore to drop out of the U.S. Senate race in Alabama.
Even more striking than McConnell urging Moore to leave the race is the way he framed his comments, focusing on the four women who have said Moore pursued them in their teens, including one, Leigh Corfman, who alleges he initiated sexual touching when she was 14.
“I believe the women, yes,” McConnell said.
Roy Moore Presents Republicans With a Familiar Dilemma
While he is not the first to say that—Mitt Romney, for example, tweeted, “I believe Leigh Corfman. Her account is too serious to ignore”—many Republicans have taken a cautious approach to the accusations against Moore, saying that on the one hand they think he should step aside if the claims are true, but at the same time withholding judgment on that question. This was also the position of White House officials on the Sunday shows this weekend. The parsing has raised the question of what these people would accept as evidence.
While Moore denies Corfman’s claims, four women were willing to speak on the record to The Washington Post, which also found dozens of corroborating sources; a fifth is due to speak Monday; a former colleague has said Moore’s dating teenagers was well-known; and Moore has not denied dating teenagers when he was in his thirties. McConnell now joins Romney among the politicians who assert that the victims’ accounts are more credible that Moore’s.
As a wave of women have brought forward stories of sexual harassment and worse, speaking out in the wake of allegations of rape and harassment against film producer Harvey Weinstein, the Moore allegations represented an unusual case: fresh allegations against a man in the moment he was running for high elective office. Many of Moore’s defenders have attacked the women, accusing them of political motivations for speaking out and saying the allegations are not credible because the incidents in question happened years ago—even though that is true of many sexual-misconduct claims, especially against powerful men like Moore.
When the Post first published the allegation against Moore on Thursday, McConnell was among the cautious, saying, “If these allegations are true, he must step aside.” But in retrospect, the McConnell camp may have been quietly telegraphing Monday’s blunter remarks.
Thursday afternoon, the president of the McConnell-allied Senate Leadership Fund said in a statement, “If there’s even a shred of evidence to these accusations, Gov[ernor Kay] Ivey and the Alabama Republican Party need to do everything in their power to remove Judge Moore from the ballot. There is no place in our party for sexual predators.”
Meanwhile, Josh Holmes, McConnell’s former chief of staff, blasted Moore and Steve Bannon, the former Trump aide who has become a Moore ally and defender. “This is what happens when you let reckless, incompetent idiots like Steve Bannon go out and recruit candidates who have absolutely no business running for the U.S. Senate,” Holmes told The New York Times. On Friday, the National Republican Senatorial Campaign announced it would break ties with Moore.
It’s not as if Moore and McConnell were ever close. McConnell had made his disdain for Moore clear in several ways. During the GOP primary, he lined up behind Senator Luther Strange, who was appointed to fill the seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions on an interim basis. Moore campaigned in part by bashing McConnell as insufficiently conservative.
Depending on one’s perspective, McConnell has either much or little to lose from his statement about Moore. As leader of a narrow, embattled, and fractious Republican caucus in the Senate, McConnell needs every vote he can get, and by forcefully turning on Moore, he’s accepting the possibility of a Democrat winning the seat. On the other hand, Moore could be even more of a thorn in McConnell’s side as a senator than Democrat Doug Jones would be. McConnell said he and others are looking into whether a write-in candidate could provide an effective alternative to either Moore or Jones. (One thing to watch is the NRSC’s resolve. Although the committee publicly yanked funding to Todd Akin in 2012, it ended up quietly sending cash his way late in the race.)
The existing bad blood between McConnell and Moore means the immediate impact of his remarks may be tempered. On Monday, Moore sent out a fundraising email asking for money to ward off “Mitch McConnell’s plot to destroy me.” But McConnell’s public statements could give cover for more Republicans to say the same, and for the party to seek ways to force Moore out. Either way, McConnell’s statement of faith in Moore’s accusers represents a milestone for a national Republican.


Years before the South Park guys’ The Book of Mormon made a fortune by making fun of the unbelievable theology of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints’s scripture, I was in the satirizing-Mormonism business myself. “Didn’t we all come to New York to escape Mormons?” says a character in my 1999 novel Turn of the Century. In my novel Heyday, set in the 1840s, the journalist character who'd reported on the founder of Mormonism calls him a lunatic and a charlatan. In my new nonfiction book Fantasyland: How America Went Haywire: A 500-Year History, an excerpt from which was September's Atlantic cover story, I devoted an entire chapter to Mormonism and its founding. “American Christians from the start tended toward the literal and hysterical and collectively self-centered,” I wrote. “Joseph Smith met that bid and raised it a million.” And, as I argue, “Smith’s Heaven is very sci-fi.
It has three quality levels, like American Express cards—one for run-of-the-mill people who don’t deserve Hell, one for good Christians, and a superpremium level for Mormons. There you’re not just one of a mass of a billion indistinguishable souls in some ethereal netherworld, but a king or queen of your personal planetary fiefdom as a resurrected immortal physical being, continuing to produce princes and princesses. God lives near an actual celestial object called Kolob, a definite number of miles away from Earth. Plus, any dead friends or relatives can be posthumously baptized and sent along to Heaven as well. Better history, better future—and at least for men, a better present, now that sex with multiple women was no longer a sin but a holy commandment. … So much about the founding of the church seems so comic, even at the most fine-grained level.
And so on.
Roy Moore Presents Republicans With a Familiar Dilemma
But like the authors of the brilliant Broadway musical, I’ve also always had a sincere soft spot for Mormons because of their sincere commitment to leading virtuous lives. In Heyday, my two Mormon characters are good and kind. In Turn of the Century, my character who ridicules Mormonism calls them “creepy and admirable.”
That admiration spiked the last few days when the quickest and most full-throated condemnation of Roy Moore and his Republican defenders came from Mormon Republicans. I wasn’t surprised. Because while I find their religious beliefs as extreme and strange as I do those of most American Protestants, Mormons seem more consistently virtuous and disciplined in the ways they live their lives.
In the Trump era, compared to the rest of the religious Republican base, they have walked that walk as citizens. Nationally, Trump’s share of the Mormon vote was 20 percent less than he got from white evangelical voters. In Utah, as The New York Times noted, more people voted against Donald Trump than for him in the general election.
Jeff Flake, one of five Republican U.S. senators who are Mormon, represents Arizona, the state with the fifth most Mormons. Right after Roy Moore won the Alabama Senate nomination in September, Flake was “the only Republican lawmaker to criticize Moore” according to The Washington Post—weeks before Flake announced he was leaving the Senate. Later he elaborated on his displeasure, focusing on Islamophobia, saying Moore’s “belief that a Muslim should not be a member of Congress because of his faith … was wrong.”
Last Thursday afternoon, immediately after the Post published its article about Moore’s apparent history of pedophilia, Flake said on Twitter that “he should step aside immediately.” In response to the variously grotesque defenses of Moore, Flake tweeted: “Come on, Republicans. Is this who we are? This cannot be who we are.”
The other well-known Republican politician to come out against Moore and his supporters immediately was Evan McMullin—former CIA agent and House policy aide, 2016 anti-Trump presidential candidate, Mormon. “Those backing Moore,” McMullin tweeted with a link to the Post article, “must now oppose him or bear responsibility for him.”
America’s most famous Mormon Republican, the one who declined to endorse Trump in 2016 because of his “trickle-down racism, trickle-down bigotry, trickle-down misogyny,” and who said in August that Trump’s “apologists strain to explain that he didn’t mean what we heard” concerning Charlottesville, remarks that had “caused racists to rejoice.” Mitt Romney stepped up first thing Friday morning, making superb use of Twitter’s new 280-character limit, advancing the logic of the case by batting away other Republicans’ main line of defense: “Innocent until proven guilty is for criminal convictions, not elections. I believe Leigh Corfman. Her account is too serious to ignore. Moore is unfit for office and should step aside.”
And on Friday as well, another Mormon Republican senator, Mike Lee of Utah, forthrightly abandoned Moore on Twitter: “Having read the detailed description of the incidents, as well as the response from Judge Moore and his campaign, I can no longer endorse his candidacy for the U.S. Senate.”
Why are the Mormon Republicans passing this character test? I can only speculate. Unlike many of the hundreds of decentralized Protestant denominations and non-denominations, so many of which practically encourage sinning so that the sinners may be repeatedly saved, Latter-day Saints are genuinely old-fashioned, with a strong top-down hierarchical establishment that maintains a powerful communitarianism and enforces exacting norms. In addition, while so much of politicized American Christianity is driven by loathing and condemnation, conforming to the religious scholar George Marsden’s definition—“a fundamentalist is an evangelical who is angry about something”—Mormons tend to be more cheerfully, industriously focused on their own tribal self-improvement. The persecution and “othering” that Mormons suffered during their recent first century probably sensitizes them more than, say, white Alabama Baptists, to the persecution of minorities.
The instant dump-Moore Republicans weren’t only Mormons (although none, tellingly, was a southerner). John McCain tweeted right away that “the allegations against Roy Moore are … disqualifying” and that “he should immediately step aside.” But Latter-day Saints were the brave, virtuous avant garde, and as ridiculous as I find their supernatural beliefs, they are in this instance an outpost of true, real-world righteousness in a party in the grip of a terrible Faustian bargain.


The most remarkable thing about the current tide of sexual assault and harassment accusations is not their number. If every woman in America started talking about the things that happen during the course of an ordinary female life, it would never end. Nor is it the power of the men involved: History instructs us that for countless men, the ability to possess women sexually is not a spoil of power; it’s the point of power. What’s remarkable is that these women are being believed.
Most of them don’t have police reports or witnesses or physical evidence. Many of them are recounting events that transpired years—sometimes decades—ago. In some cases, their accusations are validated by a vague, carefully couched quasi-admission of guilt; in others they are met with outright denial. It doesn’t matter. We believe them. Moreover, we have finally come to some kind of national consensus about the workplace; it naturally fosters a level of romance and flirtation, but the line between those impulses and the sexual predation of a boss is clear.
Believing women about assault—even if they lack the means to prove their accounts—as well as understanding that female employees don’t constitute part of a male boss’s benefits package, were the galvanizing consequences of Anita Hill’s historic allegations against Clarence Thomas, in 1991. When she came forward during Thomas’s Supreme Court confirmation hearing and reported that he had sexually humiliated and pressured her throughout his tenure as her boss at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, it was an event of convulsive national anxiety. Here was a black man, a Republican, about to be appointed to the Supreme Court, and here was a black woman, presumably a liberal, trying to block him with reports of repeated, squalid, and vividly recounted episodes of sexual harassment. She had little evidence to support her accusations. Many believed that since she’d been a lawyer at the EEOC, she had been uniquely qualified to have handled such harassment.
But then something that no one could have predicted happened. It was a pre-Twitter, pre-internet, highly analog version of #MeToo. To the surprise of millions of men, the nation turned out to be full of women—of all political stripes and socioeconomic backgrounds—who’d had to put up with Hell at work. Mothers, sisters, aunts, girlfriends, wives—millions of women shared the experience of having to wait tables, draw blood, argue cases, make sales, all while fending off the groping, the joking, the sexual pressuring, and the threatening of male bosses. They were liberal and conservative; white collar and pink collar; black and white and Hispanic and Asian. Their common experience was not political, economic, or racial. Their common experience was female.  
For that reason, the response to those dramatic hearings constituted one of the great truly feminist events of the modern era. Even though Thomas successfully, and perhaps rightly, survived Hill’s accusations, something in the country had changed about women and work and the range of things men could do to them there.
But then Bubba came along and blew up the tracks.
How vitiated Bill Clinton seemed at the 2016 Democratic convention. Some of his appetites, at least, had waned; his wandering, “Norwegian Wood” speech about his wife struck the nostalgic notes of a husband’s 50th-anniversary toast, and the crowd—for the most part—indulged it in that spirit. Clearly, he was no longer thinking about tomorrow. With a pencil neck and a sagging jacket he clambered gamely onto the stage after Hillary’s acceptance speech and played happily with the red balloons that fell from the ceiling.
When the couple repeatedly reminded the crowd of their new status as grandparents it was to suggest very different associations in voters’ minds. Hillary’s grandmotherhood was evoked to suggest the next phase in her lifelong work on behalf of women and children—in this case forging a bond with the millions of American grandmothers who are doing the hard work of raising the next generation, while their own adult children muddle through life. But Bill’s being a grandfather was intended to send a different message: Don’t worry about him anymore; he’s old now. He won’t get into those messes again.  
Yet let us not forget the sex crimes of which the younger, stronger Bill Clinton was very credibly accused in the 1990s. Juanita Broaddrick reported that when she was a volunteer on one of his gubernatorial campaigns, she had arranged to meet him in a hotel coffee shop. At the last minute, he had changed the location to her room in the hotel, where she says he very violently raped her. She said that she fought against Clinton throughout a rape that left her bloodied. At a different Arkansas hotel, he caught sight of a minor state employee named Paula Jones, and, Jones said, he sent a couple of state troopers to invite her to his suite, where he exposed his penis to her and told her to kiss it. Kathleen Willey said that she met him in the Oval Office for personal and professional advice and that he groped her, rubbed his erect penis on her, and pushed her hand to his crotch.
It was a pattern of behavior; it included an alleged violent assault; the women involved had far more credible evidence than many of the most notorious accusations that have come to light in the past five weeks. But Clinton was not left to the swift and pitiless justice that today’s accused men have experienced. Rather, he was rescued by a surprising force: machine feminism. The movement had by then ossified into a partisan operation, and it was willing—eager—to let this friend of the sisterhood enjoy a little droit de seigneur.
The notorious 1998 New York Times op-ed by Gloria Steinem must surely stand as one of the most regretted public actions of her life. It slut-shamed, victim-blamed, and age-shamed; it urged compassion for and gratitude to the man the women accused. Moreover (never write an op-ed in a hurry; you’ll accidentally say what you really believe), it characterized contemporary feminism as a weaponized auxiliary of the Democratic Party.
Called “Feminists and the Clinton Question,” it was written in March of 1998, when Paula Jones’s harassment claim was working its way through court. It was printed seven days after Kathleen Willey’s blockbuster 60 Minutes interview with Ed Bradley. If all the various allegations were true, wrote Steinem, Bill Clinton was “a candidate for sex addiction therapy.” To her mind, the most “credible” accusations were those of Willey, who she noted was “old enough to be Monica Lewinsky’s mother.” And then she wrote the fatal sentences that invalidated the new understanding of workplace sexual harassment as a moral and legal wrong: “Even if the allegations are true, the President is not guilty of sexual harassment. He is accused of having made a gross, dumb, and reckless pass at a supporter during a low point in her life. She pushed him away, she said, and it never happened again. In other words, President Clinton took ‘no’ for an answer.”
Steinem said the same was true of Paula Jones. These were not crimes; they were “passes.” Steinem revealed herself as a combination John and Bobby Kennedy of the feminist movement: the fair-haired girl and the bare-knuckle fixer. The widespread liberal response to the sex-crime accusations against Bill Clinton found their natural consequence 20 years later in the behavior of Harvey Weinstein: Stay loudly and publicly and extravagantly on the side of signal leftist causes and you can do what you want in the privacy of your offices and hotel rooms. But the mood of the country has changed. We are in a time when old monuments are coming down and men are losing their careers over things they did to women a long time ago.
When more than a dozen women stepped forward and accused Leon Wieseltier of a serial and decades-long pattern of workplace sexual harassment, he said, “I will not waste this reckoning.” It was textbook Wieseltier: the insincere promise and the perfectly chosen word. The Democratic Party needs to make its own reckoning of the way it protected Bill Clinton. The party needs to come to terms with the fact that it was so enraptured by their brilliant, Big Dog president and his stunning string of progressive accomplishments that it abandoned some of its central principles. The party was on the wrong side of history, and there are consequences for that. Yet expedience is not the only reason to make this public accounting. If it is possible for politics and moral behavior to coexist, then this grave wrong needs to be acknowledged. If Weinstein and Mark Halperin and Louis C. K. and all the rest can be held accountable, so can our former president and so can his party, which so many Americans so desperately need to rise again.


Fifteen months ago, a group called the Shadow Brokers began to taunt the National Security Agency with proof of an extraordinary breach: By unknown means, operatives had infiltrated its operations and stolen its most potent cyber weapons. Developed by the U.S. government to penetrate or attack adversaries, those weapons were then used to attack millions of innocents worldwide.
Future attacks are “all but certain,” The New York Times reported while revisiting the matter over the weekend, yet the NSA still doesn’t know exactly what was taken, or whether its defenses were breached by an outside hacker or an insider.
The Last Defenders of the NSA
Some fear a mole remains inside the intelligence agency even today.
“The leaks have renewed a debate over whether the NSA should be permitted to stockpile vulnerabilities it discovers in commercial software to use for spying rather than immediately alert software makers so the holes can be plugged,” the Times wrote. “The agency claims it has shared with the industry more than 90 [percent] of flaws it has found, reserving only the most valuable for its own hackers. But if it can’t keep those from leaking, as the last year has demonstrated, the damage to businesses and ordinary computer users can be colossal.”
* * *
Software vulnerabilities aren’t the only thing that the NSA stockpiles. Four years ago, the American public learned that the agency hoovers up metadata pertaining to the private communications of most every adult in this country.
After the Edward Snowden leaks, the Obama administration insisted that the costs of collecting and storing metadata on phone calls, texts, and emails was outweighed by the benefits. Sure, the trove that the government was amassing indicated countless sensitive calls, like those to abortion clinics, suicide hotlines, and oncologists; and it could expose a person’s entire web of acquaintances.
But procedural safeguards would prevent violations of privacy, NSA defenders insisted. NSA analysts wouldn’t enjoy unfettered access to the entire haul. Rather, they would be permitted to submit discrete queries, like a phone number found in a terrorist safe house. And if their database in fact contained information on that target, they’d still be limited by a constraint that they could only look at other phone numbers within two or three “hops” of the target.
NSA critics challenged the accuracy and adequacy of the safeguards, as well as the government’s underlying presumption: that an American’s privacy wasn’t in fact impinged upon if the government merely gathered and stored information about their communications, so long as no one subsequently looked at it.
A different concern was scarcely broached: What if the U.S. government never itself abused the system it built, but failed to safeguard its contents?
The likelihood of the trove’s eventual theft strikes me as significant (and that is assuming that a foreign government or group of hackers hasn’t already gotten any of it). The NSA failed to stop Snowden from taking some of its most closely held secrets. It failed to stop the Shadow Brokers from taking some of its most closely held cyber weapons and deploying them against innocents, including Americans. Why expect it to successfully safeguard its most closely held trove of metadata?
Per the Times, “NSA employees say that with thousands of employees pouring in and out of the gates, and the ability to store a library’s worth of data in a device that can fit on a key ring, it is impossible to prevent people from walking out with secrets.”
According to the report, after the NSA’s stockpile of offensive weapons leaked, the consequences included the following:
Millions of people saw their computers shut down by ransomware, with demands for payments in digital currency to have their access restored. Tens of thousands of employees at Mondelez International, the maker of Oreo cookies, had their data completely wiped. FedEx reported that an attack on a European subsidiary had halted deliveries and cost $300 million. Hospitals in Pennsylvania, Britain, and Indonesia had to turn away patients. The attacks disrupted production at a car plant in France, an oil company in Brazil, and a chocolate factory in Tasmania, among thousands of enterprises affected worldwide. American officials had to explain to close allies—and to business leaders in the United States—how cyber weapons developed at Fort Meade in Maryland came to be used against them.
Now consider the potential costs and consequences if the NSA’s stockpile of metadata on American citizens were to be breached by hackers or stolen by an insider, and then come under the control of Russia or China or North Korea or terrorists.
Chaos-loving Russian trolls could take to Facebook, Twitter, and Reddit to post phone numbers of millions who called abortion clinics, addiction and suicide hotlines, and tip lines to anonymously report crime to the FBI or local cops. China’s government could map the business networks of American corporations expected to be in high-stakes economic competition with Chinese firms. I’ll refrain from giving terrorists specific ideas about how they might exploit such information, but I can think of several frightening ways off the top of my head.
To collect and store all this information about U.S. citizens in one place would create a vulnerability even if it was protected by bureaucrats with a good record of data security.
To keep it in the hands of the NSA, given its track record, is folly. All data the NSA retains on Americans should be erased now before it falls into the wrong hands. And Congress should pass data-retention laws that force categories of private corporations, which are often even less capable of safeguarding the data that they amass, to purge whole categories of sensitive information at regular intervals. How many breaches must we witness to give up on securing and start deleting?


This is the third installment in our series of essays written by veterans. We asked service members to share how their time in uniform shaped their perspectives on American life.
One day in August 2014, I felt my phone buzz in my pocket. A news alert tersely stated that an American journalist, James Foley, had been beheaded by militants from the Islamic State, which had swarmed through northern Iraq just two months prior. Service members and veterans looked on with horror as Islamic State fighters committed atrocities and overran bases which had once housed tens of thousands of US troops—overturning everything US service members had struggled to build. I showed the news to a fellow soldier, who simply shrugged and said, “Most Americans just don’t care about this sort of thing like we do.”  
For years—usually in November, around Veterans Day—military observers have penned articles decrying the widening “civil-military gap.” Many blame society for not understanding the men and women fighting and dying on their behalf. But I would argue servicemembers share some of the blame for the civil-military divide in our nation. As servicemembers, we cannot understand ourselves unless we understand the nation we serve.  
Most civilians have little understanding of servicemembers or military issues in general. Less than half of American civilians report having socialized with a service member or spouse in their lifetime. Worse yet, civilians are largely indifferent to military affairs—polls indicate civilians are more likely to answer “I don’t know” or “no opinion” to questions regarding military policies than they are for most other issues. Many servicemembers, for their part, often see themselves as apart from, rather than a part of, the American public. A retired Army colonel, recalling the advice of one of his mentors, put it aptly:  “The longer you stay in uniform, the less you will really understand about the country you protect … you may defend democracy, but you won’t understand it or be part of it. What’s more, you’ll always be a stranger to your own society. That’s the sacrifice you’ll be making.”   
How a Non-Incumbent GOP Winner in Virginia Stayed Above Water
Neither attitude is healthy. Democracy thrives on informed voters casting votes for representatives who exercise control over the military—some suggest that heads of state who are more involved in military affairs tend to be more successful in wartime. Servicemembers, likewise, can be tempted to ignore many of the problems which plague the American public. The bitter battle over health care went largely unnoticed in military circles, where service members and their families benefit from government-funded medical care. Thousands of people stood in the cold for hours to receive no-cost dental procedures this past year—for most troops, annual dental exams can be a nuisance. And state and local taxes? Thanks to lax tax laws, servicemembers can often avoid paying state and local income tax. These issues barely register for many military service members—but they do for most Americans.
But while it’s tempting to dismiss domestic issues, veterans  must understand that most of the issues which affect America will ultimately affect the military. U.S. servicemembers are drawn from a society where nearly three-quarters of the public do not meet the minimum standards to enlist in the military—and much of that is due to thorny issues such as health care, teenage pregnancy, poor health, juvenile delinquency, and childhood obesity.  When the Defense Department announces that it wants to add thousands of cyber warriors to its ranks or makes sweeping statements about tech savvy millennial soldiers, it often does so unaware that there is a profound digital divide in our country, where many American teens grow up with insufficient computer skills. When the military cites obesity as one of the main disqualifiers for military service—and a cause for booting thousands from the services each year—servicemembers should be aware of the myriad factors which drive obesity in both civilian and military life.     
The American public, likewise, has an obligation to be informed where and why troops are placed in harm’s way. Many Americans were shocked to learn that four American soldiers were killed in Niger—but perhaps an even bigger shock was that nearly 800 military personnel are active in the country. The troop presence was hardly a secret either, as U.S. Africa Command issued regular press releases and the operation was even highlighted in the Wall Street Journal. Likewise for the war in Afghanistan, a war nearly as old as its participants, and one which the majority of Americans have largely tuned out.
Veterans Day is a time all Americans need to look at the ever-growing civil-military divide, with most articles placing the blame on the public for not understanding its soldiers. I would argue servicemembers are just as guilty for not understanding our fellow Americans. We cannot understand them if we don’t understand the nation we come from, protect, and ultimately, return to as veterans.  


Keith Ellison has a prediction. The deputy chair of the Democratic National Committee believes that Democrats will win back not just the House of Representatives in 2018, but the Senate as well.
“We’re going to take the House and we’re going to take the Senate,” the Minnesota congressman told me during a recent interview, following Democratic victories in the New Jersey and Virginia governors’ races on Tuesday and down-ballot wins in other states.
How a Non-Incumbent GOP Winner in Virginia Stayed Above Water
It wasn’t until June that chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee Ben Ray Luján, a Democratic congressman from New Mexico, publicly said that “the House is in play in 2018,” or put another way: Democrats have a realistic shot at taking control back from Republicans in the midterm elections.
Winning back the House is a tall order, but winning back the Senate is likely to be even more difficult, which is why most Democrats in Congress aren’t confidently predicting it will happen. The Senate map favors Republicans, who only have to defend eight seats while Democrats have to protect 25, including in states President Trump won by double-digit margins like North Dakota, West Virginia, Montana, and Indiana.
Ellison has been right before when others weren’t. In a now-famous viral television exchange from 2015, Ellison said that Donald Trump had momentum, adding,“we better be ready for the fact that he might be leading the Republican ticket.” That pronouncement led ABC News anchor George Stephanopoulos to laugh, before replying, “I know you don’t believe that.”  
Ellison believes there’s still a lot of work to be done, however, to engage the Democratic grassroots, and rebuild trust in the party and the DNC. During the interview, Ellison said that the DNC should put a formal policy in place to ensure that no candidate or campaign ever has an inside track or unfair control over the party.
A transcript of our conversation, lightly edited for clarity and length, follows.
Clare Foran: What do you think are the takeaways from the elections in Virginia and New Jersey where Democrats won both of the governors’ races?
Keith Ellison: When it comes to Virginia, I think it’s a foreshadowing of good things to come.
The American people are patriotic and love their country. When you see a president trashing it, green-lighting white supremacy and Nazis, which he did do after Charlottesville, they step up and the Democratic Party has to be ready to step up and train, resource, and provide a fair election process for them.
Foran: Were you surprised at how many Democratic gains there were in the Virginia House of Delegates? Political analysts did not think that was going to happen.
Ellison: When I was campaigning with [Virginia governor-elect Ralph] Northam and [Virginia lieutenant governor-elect Justin] Fairfax, we were always talking about the down-ballot races, always talking about taking the House [of Delegates] back. A lot of people might have thought it was just exuberance and a sense of optimism, but I believed we could take it back.
Foran: Do you think Democrats can take back the House of Representatives in 2018?
Ellison: We’re going to take the House and we’re going to take the Senate.
Foran: Really? It would be pretty hard to take back the Senate given the number of seats Democrats have to defend.
Ellison: It will be hard. But look at Nevada, [Republican Senator] Dean Heller [who is facing reelection in  2018] doesn’t know whether he’s coming or going. He doesn’t know whether he wants to protect health care or oppose health care.
Foran: Do you think the party is melding its progressive and establishment wings? Or do you think any Democrat who runs at this point has to adopt a progressive agenda because that’s where the party is headed?
Ellison: There is more income and wealth inequality in this country than since the Great Depression. What some folks would label or call progressive is just responding to the economic realities of literally millions of Americans. Sixty-three percent of Americans don’t know what they’d do if they had an unexpected $500 bill. So is it progressive to say they should be able to handle that bill? I don’t know, call it whatever you want, I call it responsive government.
Foran: Well, regardless of labels, do you think more Democrats are getting the message that they need to address those kinds of concerns?
Ellison: Yes. My opinion is that any Democrat who is not responsive to the economic challenges of working Americans will not be able to win.
Foran: How are you feeling about the Alabama special election race? Do you think Doug Jones, the Democratic candidate, has a shot? Could he win even in a deeply red state?
[Editor’s note: This conversation took place before news broke on Thursday afternoon of sexual misconduct allegations against Roy Moore, the Republican candidate in the race.]
Ellison: Alabama is a blue state in the making. It’s full of folks who want a better life, who want higher pay. I think Roy Moore is, he’s a perfect villain, he’s a gun-toting racist, law-violating theocratic person. And Doug Jones is a civil-rights hero. If we don’t win, it means only one thing, we have not gone to the grassroots and mobilized the people enough.
Foran: Roy Moore made statements objecting to the fact that you were sworn into Congress because of your Muslim faith. Is it troubling to you to see that some Republicans in the Senate endorsed him?
Ellison: Of course it’s deeply troubling to me, but it’s not surprising. The Republican party has been running on anti-Muslim hate for years. I’ll never forget Herman Cain saying hateful things about Muslims, or Newt Gingrich, this guy Frank Gaffney was an adviser to Ted Cruz.
Foran: Do you think the party is doing enough to back Doug Jones in his race?
Ellison: We’re trying. But only time will tell. The election will tell. I believe there are enough Alabamians who need a better economic future to elect Doug Jones. The question is will we reach them in time for the election.
Foran: Do you think there have been significant changes to the DNC since you became deputy chair? Is it a different DNC than it was before 2016?
Ellison: I feel like we’ve made some initial very good steps, and we have a lot more work to do.
In the 2016 presidential election, I’d say 90 percent of the money was spent in about 15 battleground states. We bought into this highly minimalist campaign strategy, which essentially said we’re only going to target the number of votes we need to win, and we’re going to use TV and data analytics to do it. We’re completely reversing that model, and saying first of all we’re not in it just to win the election. We’re in it to win community. If we make people feel that we’ve got their back, and their party is there for them, the election becomes the easy part.
If you look at the mission statement of the DNC prior to now, it would say our goal is to elect the president. Now our goal has changed. Our goal is to elect Democrats from dog-catcher to president and everywhere in between, and our primary tool is grassroots engagement.
Foran: Politico recently published controversial allegations from Donna Brazile that the DNC and the Clinton campaign entered an agreement that “in exchange for raising money and investing in the DNC, Hillary would control the party’s finances, strategy, and all the money raised.” Do you think the DNC has done enough to address concerns over that? [NBC later reported that “the arrangement pertained to only the general election … [but] clearly allowed the Clinton campaign to influence DNC decisions made during an active primary.”]
Ellison: I think the DNC should never, ever, enter into a relationship with anybody in a primary, which advantages that one candidate above any others. I don’t think that should ever happen again. We need a policy that says we will never do that again.
Foran: Do you think at this point you’re confident that would never happen under new leadership? Or are you saying that should be set it in stone?
Ellison: I would never tolerate it, but I would have to know about it, you know what I mean? That’s sort of a thing too. I think we need a policy.
Foran: As an assurance so people know that will never happen?
Ellison: Not only is the policy an assurance, it’s also a notice. So, if you’re a candidate and you’re thinking, I’m going to get an inside track, you’re not getting one. We don’t do that.
Foran: Let’s talk about the unity reform commission at the DNC. Do you feel confident in the process underway now that’s supposed to lead to reform?
Ellison: Look, I just hope that everybody understands that we have a chance to win back the confidence of the American people. I hope we take that chance.
We are working together on reform, and I’m fully committed to the unity commission recommendations. I don’t think you should have 700 or so superdelegates that one candidate can secure before any primary can take place at all. So we need superdelegate reform.
We need to open up the primaries. Now I’m not saying that there should be completely open primaries, but I’m saying there shouldn’t be any state that has a primary where the waiting period between your sign up and the election is like six months, eight months. That shouldn’t happen. It should be a fairly short time period if any. I believe in same-day [voter registration].
People want real reform. Open the door, make it so people can participate. And make it so that nobody gets an inside track. We have to do it, and we have to do it very conspicuously.
Foran: Do you think Republicans in Congress will be able to pass tax reform?
Ellison:  The GOP tax bill is a scam. It’s simply a scam to redistribute the wealth from working and middle-class people to the richest people in the country.
You better believe I’m worried about it. I’m worried about it, but I think we can win. It depends on us mobilizing mass numbers of Americans all over this country to say no you’re not going to starve our government and cut all our important services.
Foran: There was a lot of grassroots mobilization in response to Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, but health care is such a visceral thing. Do you think it’ll be harder to mobilize that kind of engagement for taxes?
Ellison: Yes, I do but I think we can certainly do it.
Foran: Some Democrats in Congress are calling for President Trump to be impeached. Is that a distraction?
Ellison: I think that he totally deserves to be impeached, but given the present composition of Congress, it’s not about to happen soon, so why not focus on things that are right in front of us, like fighting this tax bill, like making sure we extend DACA [Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals], like making sure we get high open-enrollment numbers. I think those things are more important.
I don’t think these members of the Republican caucus, there are no set of circumstances under which they will impeach him. Even if they got him on tape to [Russian President] Vladimir Putin saying ‘Thank you sir, I’m so glad we’re working together on this thing.’ I don’t think they would do it.
Foran: You don’t think so?
Ellison: No, because Fox [News] would get up there and say, ‘He didn’t do it.’ He’d say he didn’t do it. It’d be like, ‘Well, we’re playing the tape,’ [and he would say], ‘Who are you going to believe: Me or that tape?’
Foran: So basically there’s no way impeachment would happen unless Democrats—
Ellison: Take over.


When Republicans in the House and Senate unveiled their tax bills to great fanfare over the last two weeks, they glossed over a small but critical detail: Neither of them, as written, can pass Congress with GOP votes alone.
Both proposals are over-budget, analysts say, and would require significant revisions to abide by Senate procedural rules. Republicans likely will adjust their plan by making some of the biggest tax cuts expire in the next decade, a change that limits the legislation’s potential for economic growth and would force lawmakers to confront potential tax increases years in the future.
To circumvent a Democratic filibuster in the Senate, Republicans are following the same budget reconciliation rules they used when they tried to repeal the Affordable Care Act earlier this year with a simple, 51-vote majority. Under parameters set by the congressional budget resolution adopted last month, the tax bill can add up to $1.5 trillion to the deficit in the first decade after its enactment, but it cannot add anything to the deficit in the years following that. The rule is named for the late Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia, the long-serving Democrat known for his parliamentary expertise.
Senate Republicans Go Their Own Way on Tax Reform
The proposal House Republicans approved in the Ways and Means Committee last week meets the first test but not the second: Steep cuts to the corporate and individual tax rates would cost more money than the government would bring in through the elimination of popular deductions and exemptions, even when accounting for economic growth.
The Senate “has an even bigger problem,” said Ed Lorenzen, a senior adviser for the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. The bill released on Thursday differs from the House proposal in a number of respects. While it completely eliminates the deduction for state and local taxes, it maintains the mortgage interest tax deduction and a few other expensive tax breaks. The Senate bill also reduces the income tax rate paid by the wealthiest earners, while the House bill does not. “The Senate bill on a permanent ongoing basis has a much larger cost, a much larger deficit than the House bill,” Lorenzen told me.
Both House and Senate tax-writers have treated the budget rule compliance as fine print to be filled in later. “We’re confident that the committee’s tax overhaul proposal will comply with the Byrd rule and other budget rules before it goes to the Senate floor,” said Julia Lawless, a spokeswoman for the Senate Finance Committee.
But the changes to come could significantly curtail legislation that Republicans have touted as the most far-reaching tax rewrite since 1986, making it far closer in scope to the temporary tax cuts that President George W. Bush enacted in the first years of his presidency. The centerpiece of the GOP plan is a drop in the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent, which right now would be permanent. But Republicans might have to cut it off after a decade or less, a move that would anger businesses who say it would undercut their economic benefits. Conservatives have already objected to the Senate’s plan to delay the corporate rate cut by a year to make the math in its bill work.
The alternative to sunsetting the business tax cuts would be to cut off provisions aimed at individuals, such as the doubling of the standard deduction, a reduction in income tax rates, or the increase in the child tax credit. But that would be a political gift to Democrats, who have accused House Republicans of setting up a tax hike for middle-class families by adding a $300 family credit and then letting it expire in 2022. (Republicans have responded by insisting that no future Congress would let that tax actually increase and would act to extend it instead.)
And because Republicans won’t be able to let the revenue-raising provisions expire—such as the elimination of the state-and-local-tax deduction—the final bill is likely to look like much more of a tax increase for some people than it does now. “Whatever they decide to sunset is going to make people unhappy and be an unpopular decision and generate a lot of blowback,” Lorenzen said. “That is a tough choice they may not want to reveal until the end.”
Under the Senate voting process, provisions that violate the Byrd rule would be subject to a point of order, meaning they would need 60 votes to stay in the bill. While a few Senate Democrats remain in play for Republicans, they are nowhere close to the eight they’d need to meet that threshold. Republicans could try to structure the tax bill in such a way that Democrats would be forced to vote down its most popular middle-class benefits, but even that would be a long shot.
GOP leaders are struggling to win over 50 of their 52 members as it is. On Thursday, Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona raised concerns about the bill’s impact on the debt, and he and other Republicans might also be leery of “gimmicks” like setting certain tax cuts to expire.
The search for more revenue has led conservatives, with an assist from President Trump, to push for Republican leaders to repeal Obamacare’s individual insurance mandate as part of the tax bill. That would generate $338 billion over 10 years, according to a new estimate from the Congressional Budget Office, although it still wouldn’t be enough to solve either bill’s math problem, Lorenzen said. “Repealing the individual mandate really would be a drop in the bucket for the problem they have,” he said. “There’s really no easy way to get around the Byrd rule without having significant parts of the bill sunset.”
The good news for Republicans is unlike in their health-care push earlier this year, conservative activists recognize the Senate’s complex budget constraints and are largely holding their fire. “Permanence in tax rates is better. At the same time, they’ve got to keep the momentum moving for tax reform,” said Tim Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity, the conservative advocacy group backed by the Koch brothers. “There are very few red lines for anyone at this point.”
With Republicans reeling from election losses and carrying a record devoid of major legislative wins, the political imperative of enacting some sort of tax cut in time for the 2018 campaign season is taking priority over policy purity. “After the epic fail on health care, if they follow that with an epic fail on tax reform, their odds of holding Congress drop dramatically,” Phillips told me, “and I think they know that.”
For conservative activists and lawmakers alike, that urgency means cheering a tax bill knowing full well that for it to have any chance of passing, it’s eventually going to shrink.


Donna Brazile seems confused.
In her new book Hacks, released this Tuesday, and in an excerpt in Politico Magazine published last week, the former interim chair of the Democratic National Committee wrote that she searched for proof that the 2016 Democratic presidential primary was “rigged” for Hillary Clinton over Bernie Sanders, and said, “By September 7... I had found my proof and it broke my heart.” Yet on Tuesday, Brazile appeared on CBS News, where she said the contest was fair. “I found no instances that the party rigged the process, and I wanted to make sure Bernie and his supporters understood that,” she said. The contradiction is so clear that even Chris Cillizza was able to spot it.
Donna Brazile's Curious Account of the 2016 Election
The claim of rigging, made and withdrawn, is the buzziest of several stories to come from the book, some of which I wrote about last week. One, reported by The Washington Post, was the idea that Brazile plotted to remove Clinton from the Democratic ticket after her September 11, 2016, fainting spell, perhaps replacing her with Joe Biden and Cory Booker. The Post wrote that Brazile had “seriously contemplated setting in motion a process to replace” Clinton, but it’s difficult to tell from the book just how serious she was. Brazile wrote that she had occasionally threatened the Clinton campaign with removal when she felt disrespected, but it doesn’t sound as though she was ever really close to trying to do so after Clinton’s illness.
Sometimes the fuzziness on details is on Brazile’s part. For example, she makes this claim: “The Saturday morning after the convention in July, I called Gary Gensler, the chief financial officer of Hillary’s campaign. He wasted no words. He told me the Democratic Party was broke and $2 million in debt. ...On the phone Gary told me the DNC had needed a $2 million loan, which the campaign had arranged.”
But Brazile is almost certainly mistaken about the loan. The DNC did have $2 million in debt on its books, but that loan dated to 2014—before the Clinton campaign existed, meaning the campaign couldn’t have arranged it. It was with the DNC’s usual bank. And despite Brazile’s statement that then-DNC Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz hadn’t informed party officers like her, the loan was disclosed in FEC filings that Brazile (and anyone else) could view.
There are several other curious things about the book, including her peculiar, though evidently heartfelt, fixation with the case of Seth Rich, the DNC employee whose unsolved murder has become a focus for conspiracy theorists, much to his family’s dismay. (Rich is also one of the book’s dedicatees.)
Brazile seems to have harbored unrealistic expectations about the DNC’s independence. By the time Brazile was named interim chair in July 2016, Clinton was already the de facto nominee, days away from formal nomination. It’s customary for the nominee to effectively control the party apparatus from that point, but Brazile repeatedly bridled at directives from Clinton’s headquarters in Brooklyn. One is sympathetic to Brooklyn: No one wants a DNC chair offering conflicting messages from the campaign, as happened after James Comey’s October 28 letter about the FBI investigation. One is also sympathetic to Brazile: She is a boisterous, vivacious presence, and Clinton’s campaign was cool and clinical to a fault. Conflict between the two was practically inevitable. And while Brazile’s critique of the Clinton team as overly dispassionate is widely held now, her own instincts were also questionable, as in her demand that money be spent in major cities to drive up turnout due to a fear that Clinton would win the electoral vote but lose the popular vote.
But more than anything else, the book has kicked off a battle over the question of whether the primary process was in fact rigged in Clinton’s favor. In particular, that debate has focused on some pretty arcane stuff—the joint-fundraising agreement that the Clinton campaign struck with the DNC in August 2015. While the details are somewhat confusing, the discussion crystallizes the differences between Clinton and Sanders neatly: one the unshakeable party woman, fiercely devoted to institutions and willing to bend the rules a little to get what she felt needed to be done done; the other an outsider, with no strong attachment to the party but a fierce sense of principle and propriety.
The joint-fundraising agreements (or JFAs) were almost custom-tailored to produce a conflict. The funny thing is that the Clinton and Sanders camps both appear to think there’s less to Brazile’s revelations than meets the eye. Clinton campaign officials have said the agreement was only about general-election details, and did not prejudice the primary. Mark Longabaugh, a top Sanders aide who was that campaign’s liaison to the DNC, dismissed the story for a different reason: “All Donna has done here is she’s put a little bit more detail on what we all knew,” he told me. “Hillary Clinton had a heavy hand at the DNC, if not outright control. If you look at the totality of the evidence, that’s indisputable.”
The JFAs serve to create another stream of revenue for the election. There’s a federal maximum amount that individuals can give to any candidate, but a major donor can also write a large check to the party, which can use the money to boost its candidates. Such agreements are standard, and while Brazile quoted a Politico piece that described the arrangement as “essentially … money laundering,” that’s a little misleading. On the one hand, they’re designed to allow donors to give extra money, and if, like Sanders, you’re a critic of the campaign-finance regime, you may feel that this is a bad idea. They are, however, legal.
The Clinton campaign signed its JFA in August 2015. Although that was unusually early in the primary cycle, Joe Sandler, a former DNC general counsel, told me it has not been uncommon for candidates to sign JFAs during the primary. What does seem to be unusual are the terms laid out in an addendum to the memo, which was obtained by both NBC News and NPR. On the one hand, the agreement stipulates that “Nothing in this agreement shall be construed to violate the DNC's obligation of impartiality and neutrality through the Nominating process. All activities performed under this agreement will be focused exclusively on preparations for the General Election and not the Democratic Primary.”
Yet other provisions seem at odds with that. For example, the DNC agreed to hire a communications director (the post had been vacant) within a couple weeks, choosing from two Clinton-campaign-selected options. The Clinton team also had input on senior staff in several departments it viewed as central to the general-election effort, and the Clinton team would “be consulted and have joint authority over strategic decisions over the staffing, budget, expenditures, and general election related communications, data, technology, analytics, and research.”
There’s no obvious way to reconcile neutrality with the provisions, which were agreed upon when Clinton (and the DNC) still expected Sanders would pose no serious obstacle to her nomination. The idea that there would be any difference between the DNC’s interests in the primary and general must have barely registered.
“The funding arrangement with [Hillary for America] and the victory fund agreement was not illegal, but it sure looked unethical,” Brazile wrote. “If the fight had been fair, one campaign would not have control of the party before the voters had decided which one they wanted to lead. This was not a criminal act, but as I saw it, it compromised the party’s integrity.”
Why would the DNC have agreed to these conditions? The party was in dire financial straits, saddled with debt from the 2012 campaign that President Obama had never bothered to retire, led by a chairwoman who was widely viewed as listless, and looking at fundraising that lagged behind expectations. The JFA with Clinton was a way to get a quick infusion of cash from a proven fundraiser.
Last week, Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook defended the agreement on CNN, saying the figures the Clinton campaign team put in place were there to attack Republicans, not Sanders or other Democratic contenders. “The DNC came to our campaign and said, ‘We need help. We’re not prepared for the general election,’” he said. “The purpose of the DNC while a primary is going on is to hold Republican candidates accountable, and nobody was filling that post."
But although Clinton was a loyal Democratic insider and wanted the party to be in good shape for the general election, her campaign wasn’t a charity. It wanted to get something in return for funneling millions toward the DNC, and given stories of DNC mismanagement—Wasserman Schultz had reportedly sought to have the party pay for her clothing on multiple occasions—it wanted to ensure that the money went to things that would help Clinton in a general election.
Defenders of the Clinton/DNC agreement have pointed to a clause in the agreement—“Further we understand you may enter into similar agreements with other candidates”—as evidence that Sanders could have reached a similar deal, had he been willing to cough up a similar amount of cash. But by then, the Clinton-approved communications director was in place, and other Clinton-approved moves had commenced. Once the Clinton JFA was in place, no other candidate could sign a truly equal agreement.
In fact, Sanders did sign a JFA roughly two months later, at the start of November. Longabaugh said the Sanders campaign was startled when it received the JFA text and was told it was non-negotiable, because another campaign had signed the same agreement. He said Sanders didn’t want to sign, but was told that it was a condition of getting access to the DNC’s voter file. To the Sanders campaign, the idea of getting large checks for a joint account was laughable. Clinton had donors who were maxing out and were willing and able to give much larger sums, but Sanders’s campaign was built on small-dollar donations—the famous $27. There weren’t donors lining up to write six-figure checks for a Sanders-DNC JFA.
“If you go back and listen to his speeches, the core message of his campaign was he was battling a rigged economic system that was propped up by a corrupt campaign-finance system,” Longabaugh said. While the JFA was legal, it was the sort of mechanism Sanders disdained. (Longabaugh said Sanders offered to appear at party fundraisers if the DNC arranged them. As with other assertions about the DNC , top party officials at the time could not be reached for comment.)
Once the JFA was signed and the voter file accessed, Sanders basically ignored the agreement. That included not signing state parties up for joint fundraising. In February 2016, The Washington Post reported on how the joint Clinton-DNC fund had created a pipeline for money from states to the national efforts. The Sanders campaign wrote a letter to the DNC complaining about it. Sanders could have signed states up, but he didn’t do so, for the same practical and ideological reasons he didn’t like the JFA in the first place.
There’s no disputing that Sanders began the primary at a structural disadvantage. The Clinton family had spent almost some 25 years in national politics by the time the race began, and many of the people who worked at the DNC had worked for either Hillary or Bill Clinton at some point. Sanders, meanwhile, was a consummate outsider, and wasn’t even a registered Democrat. (He serves in the Senate as an independent but caucuses with Democrats.)
Longabaugh said the Clinton campaign deserves some credit for funneling millions of dollars into the party in late summer 2015.
“At one level I’m very sympathetic to the Clinton campaign—I wasn’t operating the DNC at the same time, but the Clinton people had knowledge that the party was broke,” he said. “I’m sympathetic to the fact that they came in and bailed out the DNC.” But he said the Clinton team should have used that occasion to oust Wasserman Schultz, rather than to demand control of parts of the DNC while leaving her in place.
What brings Clinton and Sanders partisans together is a frustration with Brazile’s decision to publish the book now. Brazile’s passion has sometimes led to her to say things that make other Democrats groan—her first national brush with fame came when, as a deputy field director to Michael Dukakis in the 1988 presidential race, she called on George H.W. Bush to address rumors of infidelity and was sacked.
Many Democrats view her airing of dirty laundry now as similarly self-defeating, and her press tour—including her flip-flop on rigging and an appearance on Tucker Carlson’s show Wednesday—as self-promotion that hurts the party and overshadows the Democratic critiques of the GOP tax plan and wins at the ballot box. The Clinton campaign is hardly eager for further dissection of its missteps last year, but even though Brazile’s book is sympathetic to Sanders’s interpretation of the race, Longabaugh wasn’t enjoying the hubbub.
“The party needs to move on beyond this,” he sighed.


In an interview with conservative commentator Sean Hannity, Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore denied allegations that he had a sexual encounter with a 14-year-old girl when he was 32, but only said he could not recall dating girls as young as 17. Earlier in the day, Mitt Romney said Moore “is unfit for office and should step aside.” Senate Republicans’ campaign committee will no longer fundraise on Moore’s behalf. During a speech at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Trump delivered an “America First” message and pledged to pursue fair trade deals. Five Democratic senators said they want to hold a second confirmation hearing for Kirstjen Nielsen, Trump’s nominee to head the Department of Homeland Security.
Fight the System: The Trump White House is becoming increasingly frustrated about the restrictions on its authority and is finding other ways to pursue the president’s political agenda. (Alex Wagner)
Do Taxes Matter That Much?: Republican leaders believe that passing tax reform will be the key to their success in 2018. It’s more likely that the opposite is true. (David A. Graham)
‘It Was 40 Years Ago’: Here are some of the ways that Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore’s supporters have defended him from allegations of sexual misconduct. (Elaine Godfrey)
Radio Atlantic: What lessons have journalists taken from the 2016 campaign and President Trump’s election? What’s changed since then? And what should change going forward? In the latest episode of Radio Atlantic, Adrienne LaFrance, the editor of TheAtlantic.com, and Yoni Appelbaum, the magazine's politics and policy editor, join Matt and Jeff to look back and look ahead one year after the Trump Era began.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.
No Place in Politics: David French argues that Alabamians should not dismiss the allegations against Senate candidate Roy Moore—and should consider supporting a write-in candidate on the ballot. (National Review)
A Biden Bid: After repeatedly changing his mind about launching a presidential bid, people close to the former vice president say he’s leaning toward running in 2020. (Edward-Isaac Dovere, Politico)
The Highlights: In his interview with The New York Times, former White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon talked about his plan to topple the political establishment and shape the Republican Party in Trump’s image. Here are a few key takeaways. (Jeremy W. Peters)
Predicting 2020: Trump’s supporters are still loyal to him—and probably will be no matter what, argues Ezra Klein, “but we shouldn’t mistake Trump’s hardcore support for the votes that won him the White House, and that he’s at most risk of losing.” (Vox)
Inexperienced: President Trump’s nominee to be a federal judge in Alabama has reportedly never tried a case and was rated “not qualified” by the American Bar Association. (David G. Savage, Los Angeles Times)
It’s Been a Long Year: Want to feel old? Take a look at this timeline chronicling the 365 days since Donald Trump was elected president of the United States. (Benjamin Freed, Washingtonian)
This week, we asked you to share your memories from the 2016 election. Many of you shared similar stories, mostly marked by disbelief at the results.
“I was awake until 1 a.m. and gave up and went to bed,” writes Daphne Georges from Massachusetts. “I voted for Trump for a number of reasons but never thought he’d win. When I woke up the next morning and turned on the news, I felt like Rip Van Winkle. Couldn’t believe it.”
For others, that surprise was less welcome. Kathryn Ischinger from California writes that she had planned for a Clinton victory: “Caviar was in the refrigerator as was the champagne. Needless to say, there was not a celebration to be had.”
Dennis Futoryan from New York was at the Hillary Clinton election party in New York City, where he said the atmosphere was hopeful at first. “But then came Florida, and the crowd stood as the state turned red,” he writes. “As a state would turn red or blue, people would look to their phones to read the latest analysis and answer the question of ‘What state does Hillary need next to guarantee an Electoral College victory?’ I didn’t stick around too soon after that, as the waiting grew tiresome and cold in the late hours.”
Thanks to everyone who submitted responses, and stay tuned for next week’s Question of the Week.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


Updated on November 11, 2017.
Alabama Republican Senate candidate Roy Moore, facing allegations that he had a sexual encounter with an underage girl nearly 40 years ago, denied any impropriety in an interview with conservative radio host Sean Hannity on Friday. But his responses to Hannity’s queries are likely to deepen the still-developing scandal—they’ve already led to two Senate Republicans withdrawing their endorsements.
In the afternoon interview, Hannity asked Moore whether he had “dated” girls as young as 17 years old, the age one of the women cited in a recent Washington Post article said she was when she went out with him. In response, Moore stopped short of unequivocal denial, saying only that he could not recall having done so.
How a Non-Incumbent GOP Winner in Virginia Stayed Above Water
“Would it be unusual for you as a 32-year-old guy to have dated a woman as young as 17, that would be what, a 15-year difference, or a girl 18—do you remember dating girls that young at that time?” Hannity asked. “Not generally no,” Moore replied, adding that “if I did, I’m not going to dispute anything, but I don’t remember anything like that.”
Hannity followed up on the matter later, asking: “You can say, unequivocally, you never dated anyone in their late teens like that when [you] were 32?”
Moore told Hannity that “that would be out of my customary behavior.” The radio host then tried another angle: “In other words, you don’t recall dating any girl that young when you were that old?”  
“I’ve said no,” Moore parried. Pressed on whether such a relationship would be “inappropriate,” the candidate said he agreed it would be.
After the interview, two of Moore’s would-be colleagues quickly withdrew their support for his candidacy. They followed earlier calls for Moore to step down, which came after the Post published its report Thursday. The story included allegations that Moore, a former state Supreme Court justice, had a sexual encounter with a 14-year-old girl nearly 40 years ago.
Early Friday evening, Republican Senator Mike Lee of Utah wrote on Twitter that “having read the detailed description of the incidents, as well as the response from Judge Moore and his campaign,” he could “no longer endorse his candidacy for the US Senate.” Republican Senator Steve Daines of Montana tweeted succinctly that he would be “pulling my endorsement and support for Roy Moore for U.S. Senate.”
By contrast, some Republicans made statements in Moore’s defense following the Post story: Some of his political supporters called the allegations totally false, while others claimed the women accusing him were in cahoots with the Democratic Party. A few went even further, excusing the alleged behavior.
“Take Mary and Joseph. Mary was a teenager and Joseph was an adult carpenter. They became parents of Jesus,” Alabama State Auditor Jim Zeigler told the Washington Examiner. “There’s just nothing immoral or illegal here. Maybe just a little bit unusual.”
The Post reported that Moore allegedly had an inappropriate sexual encounter with Leigh Corfman in 1979, when she was 14 and he was 32, and that he pursued relationships with three other teenage women. Corfman alleged that Moore kissed her, touched her through her bra and underpants, and guided her hand to his underwear. The age of consent in Alabama was—and still is—16 years old. The other three women in the story allege that Moore dated them briefly when they were between the ages of 16 and 18, but that they were not forced into sexual contact.
Moore denied the claims, calling the story a “completely false and desperate political attack.” On Twitter, he wrote that “the Obama-Clinton Machine’s liberal media lapdogs just launched the most vicious and nasty round of attacks” he’s ever faced. A statement from Moore’s campaign called the report a “last ditch Hail Mary” by Democrats supporting his opponent, Doug Jones.
Moore, who is an evangelical Christian, was removed from the bench in 2003 over his refusal to take down a monument to the Ten Commandments in the state Supreme Court building in Alabama. Last year, he was suspended for the remainder of his term after telling probate judges to enforce the ban on gay marriage, which by then had been struck down by the U.S. Supreme Court. Both fights elevated his profile among religious conservatives in the state and nationally.
In the hours that followed the story’s publication, several of Moore’s fellow Republicans criticized him. But many others, especially Moore’s local Alabama supporters, defended him.
State Representative Ed Henry accused the women cited of being politically motivated. “You cannot tell me there hasn’t been an opportunity through the years to make these accusations with as many times as [Moore has] run [for office] and been in the news,” Henry told the Cullman Times. He said he believes Moore’s accusers should be prosecuted. “You can’t be a victim 40 years later, in my opinion.”
The Toronto Star’s Daniel Dale contacted state GOP officials, many of whom also rejected the allegations. Mobile County GOP Chairman John Skipper told Dale that the report didn’t surprise him. “I think it is a typical Democratic, Democrat, ploy to discredit Judge Moore, a sincere, honest, trustworthy, individual,” Skipper said, calling the allegations “bunk” with “no credibility whatsoever.”
Many leading Republicans outside of Alabama said in public statements they would like to see Moore step aside—if the allegations against him are true. On Thursday, The Atlantic reached out to all 52 GOP senators, and the 20 lawmakers who responded said exactly that. That approach would seem to leave room for Moore to deny the report and continue his campaign.
Other officials and commentators said that even if they were true, the allegations are exaggerated. Joel Pollak, an editor-at-large at Breitbart, criticized the Post’s report in an interview on MSNBC, saying “the 16-year-old and the 18-year-old have no business in that story” because Alabama’s age of consent is 16. “As far as we know, there’s only one relationship that’s been alleged that is problematic,” Pollak said of the encounter with 14-year-old Corfman.
Moore’s alleged activity with Corfman carries serious legal consequences. Under state law, from 1979 to today, the reported behavior might constitute second-degree sexual abuse. Enticing a person under 16 for genital touching is considered a felony, punishable with up to 10 years in prison.
Zeigler, the state auditor, insisted “there’s nothing to see here.” “Single man, early 30s, never been married, dating teenage girls. Never been married and he liked younger girls,” Zeigler told The New York Times. Marion County GOP Chair David Hall told Dale he doesn’t see how the story is relevant. “It was 40 years ago,” Hall said. “He was 32. She was supposedly 14. She’s not saying that anything happened other than they kissed.” The candidate’s brother, Jerry Moore, told CNN that Moore is being persecuted “like Jesus Christ was.”
The American Family Association president, Tim Wildmon, told Religion News Service that the Post’s report “does not change our support for Roy Moore,” and Wildmon thinks others in the faith community will feel the same way. “I don’t think this kind of story will change support for him among Christians since he has categorically denied it. Most will see it as dirty politics.”
Paul Reynolds, the Republican national committeeman from Alabama, told The Hill that something “doesn’t smell right” about the report. “My gosh, it’s The Washington Post. If I’ve got a choice of putting my welfare into the hands of [Russian President Vladimir] Putin or The Washington Post, Putin wins every time,” he said.
And Hannity suggested on his show on Thursday that the accusers might be lying. “We do have Ten Commandments. One of the Commandments is, ‘Thou shalt not bear false witness.’ We know human beings break, with regularity, the other nine commandments. Did they break this one? I mean, it’s something to think about,” he said.
“It comes down to a question [of] who is more credible in the eyes of the voters—the candidate or the accuser,” Jerry Falwell Jr., the president of evangelical Liberty University and a Moore supporter, told RNS. “And I believe the judge is telling the truth.”
Indeed, many Republican officials are still behind him. “I’m not saying I support what he did,” Bibb County Chairman Jerry Pow told journalist Dale. But Pow said he’ll still vote for Moore, simply because he doesn’t want to vote for the Democrat.
The situation resembles the final days of the 2016 presidential campaign, when voters heard Donald Trump on the Access Hollywood tape, as well as sexual-harassment allegations against him from at least 16 different women. Despite criticism from lawmakers and pundits on both sides of the aisle, enough voters preferred Trump to his Democratic opponent to put him in the Oval Office.
Whether or not they believe the claims against Moore, voters in Alabama might make the same choice. According to the candidate himself, there are only more allegations to come: “I'm sure that in the next four weeks they’re gonna come out with another article,” he told Hannity on Friday.


President Trump has never been shy about making his displeasure known—on any given subject—and last week, he offered criticism regarding the limits of his executive power. In a radio interview, the president declared:
You know, the saddest thing is that because I’m the president of the United States, I am not supposed to be involved with the Justice Department. I am not supposed to be involved with the FBI. I’m not supposed to be doing the kind of things that I would love to be doing. And I’m very frustrated by it.
This alone would have been noteworthy: a president openly declaring his wish to direct American law enforcement for political ends. Taken in the context of certain developments this week, Trump’s words are even more remarkable. In three separate instances, the president and his advisers appear to be unconcerned about improperly exerting pressure on outside agencies—or indifferent to creating the appearance of improperly exerting such pressure—to achieve partisan gains. As for those gains, they include attempting to discredit the work of American intelligence agencies, to muzzle a major American media outlet and to deport 57,000 American residents.
How a Non-Incumbent GOP Winner in Virginia Stayed Above Water
On Tuesday, the The Intercept reported that CIA Director Mike Pompeo had been “urged” by the president to meet with government whistleblower-turned-conspiracy theorist named William Binney, who asserts that the 2016 hack of DNC computers was not, in fact, at the hands of Russian intelligence (the conclusion reached by U.S. intelligence agencies) and was instead an inside job. Trump, who has been critical of reports detailing ties between his campaign and Russian intelligence, has reportedly been enamored of Binney’s theory, as it undercuts the notion that Russian interference assisted Trump in his quest for the White House.
The prospect that the president dispatched one of the nation’s top intelligence officials to undermine the work of American intelligence agencies—in service to the president’s agenda—is, needless to say, highly problematic. According to The Intercept:   
The meeting raises questions about Pompeo’s willingness to act as an honest broker between the intelligence community and the White House, and his apparent refusal to push back against efforts by the president to bend the intelligence process to suit his political purposes.
Later in the week, on Wednesday, AT&T and the Justice Department found themselves at odds over a proposed AT&T merger with Time Warner. In a New York Times report, several people who attended a meeting between the two entities said that the Justice Department demanded AT&T divest one of its two subsidiaries—Turner Broadcasting (which owns CNN) or DirectTV— in order to gain approval for the merger. (Both are highly profitable, and at present, AT&T has not said it will sell either.)
The Justice Department disputed this account and insists that it was AT&T, not the federal agency, that suggested spinning off CNN. On this point, my colleague Derek Thompson points out that AT&T stands to benefit from the narrative that “the Justice Department might be mistreating it.”
Either way, what remains indisputable is that Trump does not like CNN. Castigating the network for broadcasting what he terms “fake news” is one of Trump’s favorite social media subjects, and senior administration officials earlier this year in fact floated a “potential point of leverage over their adversary”—the pending merger of CNN’s parent company and Time Warner. Whether divesting CNN was AT&T’s idea or the Justice Department’s, the optics on this are very clear. As Ben Smith of Buzzfeed concluded:
The idea that the White House would even allow itself to appear to retaliate against tough, accurate coverage by holding its parent company hostage is wildly out of line with American traditions.
And then, on Thursday, The Washington Post reported that John Kelly, the White House chief of staff, “pressured” the acting head of the Department of Homeland Security, Elaine Duke, to expel tens of thousands of Honduran immigrants who are residing in the U.S on a provisional allowance known as Temporary Protected Status. Initially, Duke did not feel that she had “enough information” to make a decision on the 57,000 Hondurans who would be affected by a change in immigration status, and so granted them a six-month extension. Kelly, informed of this extension, called her from Japan,“irritated,” according to administration officials.
Duke held her ground, [one] official said. “She was angry. To get a call like that from Asia, after she’d already made the decision, was a slap in the face.”
“They put massive pressure on her,” said another former official with knowledge of the call.
Duke did not acquiesce to Kelly’s pressure, but is reportedly set to resign as soon as her sucessor is confirmed.
What is disturbing in these stories—all of which came to light in the course of a single week!—is the possibility that senior federal officials have been strong-armed by either White House officials or the president himself into making decisions based on the president’s political interests—with very significant consequences in the realms of national security, press freedoms, and American citizenship.
Trump has made no secret of his agenda: in fact, his transparency on the campaign trail regarding his desire to enforce a Muslim ban has had the unintended effect of stymieing a proposed travel ban in the courts. For those opposed to the president’s plans for the country, the checks from other branches of government—namely Congress and the judiciary—has acted as a bulwark against Trump’s agenda.
But the instances of the last week show that this White House may be becoming increasingly brazen when it comes to rebuffing independent checks on its power. Indeed, Trump has not hidden his appetite to refashion both the congressional Republican caucus and the courts in his image, and it is possible that he will accomplish both before he leaves office. One can’t but help be reminded of the president’s own declaration just last week—“I’m not supposed to be doing the kind of things that I would love to be doing. And I’m very frustrated by it.”—and wonder how much longer this president will abide the frustration.


Surveying the damage of elections in Virginia and New Jersey on Tuesday, Paul Ryan had a clear prescription for ailing Republicans Wednesday morning: The results made it all the more important to pass the tax rewrite currently under consideration.
“I fundamentally believe when we deliver on comprehensive tax reform and tax relief, especially for middle income families, people will see their paychecks going up, they’ll see faster economic growth, better jobs being created,” he said at a Washington Examiner forum. “I think that’s going to bear fruit politically, but most importantly it’s going to help people. That’s the promise we made. If anything, this puts more pressure on making sure we follow through.”
Why the GOP’s Dream of Tax Reform Is (Probably) Doomed
Ryan is not the only Republican to make this case. Senator Lindsey Graham, for example, told CNN, “If we don’t produce, it'll get worse. The antidote to this problem is to pass a tax cut that Americans believe helps them and their families, to replace a broken health-care system with something better. And if we do those things, I think we’ll do fine in the fall.”
Ryan and Graham could be right, but it seems more likely that the opposite is true. Congressional Republicans have reasons for passing the tax overhaul, but it’s hard to believe that it’s the secret to their electoral success next November.
Although the bill is somewhat unpopular as written, the specific provisions are even less likely to win widespread popular approval. Any suggestion that the Republicans’ base is clamoring for the bill appears to conflate the demands of GOP donors with those of rank-and-file GOP voters. Besides, passing a major party priority may be a wise policy move, but it’s often politically hazardous, riling up opponents but producing little electoral payoff—just ask Democrats circa 2010. Ryan’s argument rests on the premise that voters demand some major legislation, any major legislation, from the party, and that assumption is suspect.
A Washington Post-ABC News poll last week found half of Americans oppose the plan, versus just a third who back it. (By contrast, a Politico/Morning Consult poll released Thursday found support for the plan at 45-36, down three points from a week ago but still safely popular.) Unlike the Affordable Care Act, which was unpopular as a whole despite widespread vote support for many of its key provisions, the tax bill gets less popular when you break it into specific provisions.
As Jonathan Chait writes, some of them seem designed to elicit devastating attack ads. Most people don’t care to see tax rates fall for the wealthy or corporations, and while it seems most people will see some reduction in taxes, others will actually see an increase. Will the reductions be large enough, and have enough impact fast enough, to convince voters? Don’t bet on it.
There is one group for which a tax cut is deeply important: Republican donors. While only 2 percent of Americans feel taxes are the most pressing problem facing the country as of October, there are lots of wealthy people who would like a hefty tax cut, and who see this moment, with a GOP White House, House, and Senate, as the best chance to get it. Some Republican members have acknowledged this with startling bluntness. Representative Chris Collins of New York said, “My donors are basically saying, ‘Get it done or don’t ever call me again.’” Graham said financial contributions would dry up if the package didn’t pass. And Gary Cohn, the White House point man on tax reform, told John Harwood, “The most excited group out there are big CEOs, about our tax plan.”
The 2016 election was supposed to signal the demise of the conventional business-friendly Republican approach. Donald Trump campaigned as a populist and harangued big banks and Wall Street. His victory showed that rank-and-file GOP voters weren’t all that interested in business-friendly policies. Yet once in office, Trump has governed close to the old Republican orthodoxy, and he now supports large tax cuts for business and the wealthy. It is probably not a coincidence that Trump is a billionaire businessman.
But imagine, for the sake of the argument, that the cut actually was a major priority for the GOP base. That still wouldn’t mean that passing the bill would translate into widespread success at the polls in a year’s time. Consider, again, the Affordable Care Act. Expanding health care was a longstanding priority for the Democratic Party and its base, but the law’s passage translated most prominently into enthusiasm among its opponents. The Tea Party and an energized base helped Republicans take control of the House from Democrats.
When I put this theory to Tom Perriello, a Democrat who voted for the ACA and then lost his seat in the following election, he argued the parallel was weak—in fact, he said, the Democrats’ error was not taking up health care, but rather not passing a larger stimulus first. Yet he thought Republicans would still suffer if they passed the current tax plan.
“The ACA was important to our base. The tax cuts are not important to their base,” Perriello said. “It turns off swing voters, gets our voters excited, and depresses their base.”
In particular, supporting the GOP tax plan as it stands now could well be politically suicidal for some representatives. That’s particularly true for members in states like New York, New Jersey, and California, which will be hit especially hard if Congress passes a bill eliminating the state and local tax deduction. Lee Zeldin, a New York Republican, told NPR this week he couldn’t support the bill as currently written. “I’m representing a New York district,” he said. “And I understand well that if I am not representing my home district and my home state, I can’t expect some other member of Congress from some other state to do that for me.” Even if Ryan thinks passing the bill is good for the party as a whole, it might be perilous for specific members, especially those in states where the GOP is most endangered.
“Ryan has to nationalize it—that’s his job—but if I’m an individual member I’m looking back at how it’s going to affect my district,” Bart Stupak, a former Democratic representative from Michigan, said. Stupak knows something about tough votes: He survived voting for the Clinton tax overhaul in 1993, then found himself pinched between his opposition to abortion and pressure from Democrats to vote for the ACA.
“You came off an election day that wasn’t good for Republicans, and now you’re asking me to raise taxes, and the left is telling me I’m giving away the farm to the rich, and I’ve got to go back to my district, and I’m painfully aware that maybe that message didn’t work too well on Tuesday,” he told me.
Surely after the months-long Republican misfire on health care, Congress needs to just notch an achievement, right? It’s tough to judge this claim, because it’s tough to find an example of a time when a single party controlled the White House and both Houses of Congress and made it this long without major legislation. (Presidents have run, and tried to run, against Congresses controlled by the other party by labeling them “do-nothing Congresses,” with varying results.) That doesn’t mean that significant numbers of voters have any value-neutral yearning for legislation, regardless of the benefits. Here again, the exception is GOP donors, who reportedly railed about the lack of productivity per se to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell last month.
For Trump, the need to just get something done is perhaps more pressing. He entered office with an ambitious slate of suggestions, and he has so far been stopped in his tracks on most of them. Trump’s rotten approval ratings are also almost certainly a much greater drain on members’ electoral prospects than their ability to pass a tax rewrite, or lack thereof. Some members seem to realize this, as demonstrated by the quickening pace of retirements among House Republicans over the last few days and weeks, including Bob Goodlatte, the chair of the powerful Judiciary Committee, who announced his decision on Thursday.
There are valid reasons for Republicans to continue pressing tax reform—donors’ wishes are important, like it or not; many members also feel that lower taxes are important as both a matter of freedom and economic efficiency. It’s not as if the GOP would profit from suddenly adopting a progressive approach to taxation. But if you think the fate of the tax plan will determine whether Republicans do well in the 2018 elections, I’ve got a bridge to sell you in Brooklyn. Buy now, before the mortgage-interest deduction gets capped.


Republicans promised tax reform would be different.
The party, one leader after another insisted, had learned its lesson from its failure on health care, when fundamental policy disagreements split the Capitol in two and left the Affordable Care Act in one piece. There would be no such meltdown on taxes, and to that end, top Republican officials spent months negotiating what they called a “unified framework” for legislation. “The whole point of all of this is the House, the Senate, and the White House are starting from the same page and the same outline, and tax writers are going to take it from there,” Speaker Paul Ryan said in September.
On Thursday, however, the Republican majorities in the House and Senate once again veered in separate directions on their foremost legislative priority. In the House, the Ways and Means Committee approved and sent to the floor a tax bill that immediately reduces the corporate rate to 20 percent, repeals the estate tax by 2024, collapses seven individual income brackets to four, and scales back popular tax deductions for mortgage interest and medical expenses.
Have Republicans Abandoned the Ownership Society?
Senate Republicans, meanwhile, unveiled their own tax plan, which contains key differences: It would delay changes to the corporate rate to save money, maintain the estate tax and the seven income brackets, and keep the mortgage-interest and medical-expense tax breaks where they are. But while those differences address political challenges in the House bill, the Senate plan introduces a few of its own: namely, by reducing the top marginal tax rate for the wealthiest Americans and completely eliminating the deductions for state-and-local taxes, known as SALT. That latter change could make the bill politically untenable in the House, where Republicans representing high-tax states already demanded a compromise keeping a deduction for property taxes capped at $10,000.
While downplaying the split, Ryan acknowledged the two chambers would have to iron out their differences in a conference committee—another difficult negotiation that could threaten the GOP’s self-imposed target of enacting a new tax law before the end of the year. “Yes, the Senate bill is going to be different than the House bill, because that’s the legislative process,” the speaker told reporters on Thursday.
Ryan said the House and Senate bills both stuck to the framework that party leaders and the White House agreed to in September. But that’s not entirely true. The framework calls for eliminating the estate tax—which Republicans call the “death tax”—and reducing the number of individual income brackets as a way of simplifying the code. The Senate proposal does neither.
Many of the differences in the Senate plan reflect the political dynamics within the chamber, where the GOP has only a narrow majority. As with health care, Republicans are trying to pass the tax bill with a filibuster-proof 51 votes, meaning they can lose no more than two of their members. (A loss from Roy Moore in the upcoming Alabama special election would make their effort even tougher.) Budget reconciliation rules require the bill to add no more than $1.5 trillion to the deficit in the first decade and nothing to the debt after that, forcing Republicans to make tricky decisions about which loopholes to close and which tax provisions to make temporary or permanent.
The SALT deduction is a big issue for Republicans in the House, where dozens of GOP lawmakers hail from the states that would be hit hardest: New York, New Jersey, Illinois, and California. But those states have only Democratic senators, and Republicans do not expect any of them to vote for their tax bill under any circumstances. At the same time, Senator Susan Collins of Maine has said she sees no need to repeal the estate tax, which benefits the nation’s wealthiest families more than the middle class. Others have voiced a similar concern, so that levy is kept in the Senate proposal.
The House and Senate bills both eliminate the personal exemption, nearly double the standard deduction to $12,000, and increase the $1,000 child-tax credit by $600 to $650 per kid. And for the moment, they share an important omission: Neither plan repeals the Affordable Care Act’s individual insurance mandate, despite a late push by conservatives to make it a part of tax reform. Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas has urged party leaders to axe the mandate because it would free up more than $300 billion to pay for tax cuts while making a down payment on the party’s broken promise to repeal Obamacare. That money would come from the government no longer having to pay some enrollees’ subsidies.
But party leaders have warned from the start that adding health-care politics to the tax debate could be a toxic mix and doom the whole effort. “It would be an absolute wrong approach to take on tax reform,” said Representative Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania, a leading moderate who voted against the GOP repeal bill but has spoken more positively of the tax proposal. “It would be a mistake to do this. I’m always fearful that leadership will be muscled into an approach to placate the hardest-edged members of our conference.”
Ryan, however, said the issue was not settled. “That’s one of the many things our members are talking about,” he said. “Those kinds of conversations are ongoing.”
At first glance, the divisions among Republicans seem easier to bridge on tax reform than they were on health care. But before the House and Senate can reconcile their differences, they each need to pass their bills. The House is ahead on that score, planning a vote next week. Before adopting the measure on Thursday, the Ways and Means Committee made a number of late changes, including the restoration of the adoption tax credit—a win for conservatives.
The Senate is unlikely to vote until after Thanksgiving, and based on initial reactions on Thursday, it, too, will have to make some adjustments. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida complained that GOP tax writers had not increased the child tax credit enough for his liking. And Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona sounded cool to the entire bill based on his worry that it will add to the deficit. “I remain concerned over how the current tax-reform proposals will grow the already staggering national debt by opting for short-term fixes while ignoring long-term problems for taxpayers and the economy,” he said in a statement. “We must achieve real tax reform crafted in a fiscally responsible manner.”
Republicans have a lot to contend with these days. They were routed in state and local elections on Tuesday, their senior members are retiring seemingly by the day, and they are now at considerable risk of losing a crucial Senate seat in deep-red Alabama. But on tax reform, as on health care, the party’s challenge is straightforward: The GOP has two separate majorities that aren’t yet working off the same page.


The Washington Post reports that Roy Moore, the GOP nominee in Alabama for a U.S. Senate seat, initiated a sexual encounter with a 14-year-old girl in the 1970s. Multiple senators called for Moore to drop out of the race if the allegations detailed in the Post are true. “If these allegations are true, he must step aside,” said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. The House Ways and Means Committee voted to advance a Republican tax-reform bill. Chief of Staff John Kelly reportedly pressured Department of Homeland Security Acting Secretary Elaine Duke to end protections for thousands of Hondurans living in the United States.
‘High Holy Day of MAGA’: During a speech in Michigan Wednesday, Steve Bannon insisted that Ed Gillespie’s loss in the Virginia governor’s race was not a sign that Trumpism had failed, but that he had not embraced the president enough. (Rosie Gray)
A Fighting Chance: Despite President Trump’s attempts to undercut Obamacare, voters Tuesday night showed overwhelming support for the health-care program. (Russell Berman)
Thinking Small on Taxes: The Republican Party risks putting forward a tax bill that is “unpopular, unpassable, and unpopulist,” argues Derek Thompson. Here’s how to fix it.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

American Dream Town: Orange City, Iowa, is one of the most conservative small towns in the country, but contrary to stereotypes, it’s not stagnant. In fact, it’s thriving. (Larissa MacFarquhar, The New Yorker)
Beware Big Tech: In a speech on Wednesday, Senator Al Franken delivered the speech that Facebook, Google, and other tech giants have been dreading. (Nitasha Tiku, Wired)
Revisiting the Revolution: Exposing the legitimate shortcomings of Vladimir Lenin, who’s often “airbrushed,” can provide lessons for today’s left. (Mitchell Cohen, Dissent)  
Alternate Timeline: If Hillary Clinton had won the 2016 election, here’s what would’ve happened. (Ben Terris, Dan Zak, Monica Hesse, and Amy Argetsinger, The Washington Post)
A Tax-Plan Migraine: The GOP tax bill has a whole host of problems, argues Eric Levitz, most of which stem from Republicans’ “obsession” with a 20 percent corporate tax rate. (New York)

Staff Pick
‘The Leaks. The Frustrations. Omarosa’s Shoes. Mike Dubke on His 103 Days in the White House’
by Washingtonian’s Elaina Plott
Plott checks in with the man who served as the White House communications director during Trump's chaotic first 100 days in office. As it turns out, Dubke has some stories to tell—filled with weird, amusing details, and genuine insights about how this president operates.
–Staff writer McKay Coppins
A Polarized Virginia: These maps reveal how Ed Gillespie lost in Virginia’s governor’s race. (Ted Mellnik and Kevin Schaul, The Washington Post)
In this Esquire story, political commentators, insiders, and journalists shared their memories from November 8, 2016. Many of them, including members of Donald Trump’s own circle, expected Hillary Clinton to win the presidential election.
Where were you during the 2016 election? What are your memories from that day?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Lena Felton (@lenakfelton), Taylor Hosking (@Taylor__Hosking), and Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


Stop me if you’ve heard this one before: A Republican candidate, widely loathed by the party establishment and known for his inflammatory comments, has defeated rivals more embedded in the party hierarchy. Now, about a month until election day, accusations of sexual impropriety have upended his campaign.
That is, of course, where things stood a little more than a year ago, when The Washington Post first published a tape in which Donald Trump boasted about sexually assaulting women. And it’s where things stand in the special election for U.S. Senate in Alabama, where the Post has just published a story featuring four women who say that GOP nominee Roy Moore pursued them when they were younger than 18, including one who says he guided her hand to touch his penis when she was 14.
'If These Allegations Are True, He Must Step Aside'
Now the Republican Party faces a moral and political test: How will it respond to the accusations against Moore? It’s a decision in which the Trump experience will weigh heavily.
When the Trump tape landed in early October, along with stories from multiple women who alleged unwanted sexual contact of other kinds over the course of several decades, many Republican officeholders leaped to dissociate themselves from Trump. Many of them had never really liked him, and had supported other candidates in the GOP primary, endorsing him only reluctantly once he locked up the Republican nomination. After the tape, they reasoned that Trump was likely to lose anyway and might even be forced to withdraw his candidacy in the wake of the allegations. Better to jump ship and preserve moral standing than to back a candidate destined to lose anyway.
But a strange thing happened. Trump remained defiant and refused to withdraw. Some of the Republicans who had indignantly condemned him slunk back to support him, and on Election Day Trump shocked the nation by winning. Now Republican officeholders who had condemned him not only had a president-elect whose morals they disdained; they had to deal with him as president of the United States.
Today they face a similar dilemma: Condemn Moore? Or assume that in a post-Trump world he could well survive, and so keep quiet lest they alienate a future congressional colleague?
In the immediate wake of the Moore allegations, the predominant Republican reaction has to been to offer a conditional condemnation—if the allegations are true, then Moore must resign. That’s the language that Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell used, and many of his colleagues followed suit. Senator John McCain is a notable outlier, demanding that Moore step down immediately.
Many Republicans will likely try to keep a low profile and wait to see what happens. But others are taking a different stand. Alabama State Auditor Jim Zeigler told the Montgomery Advertiser, “Even if you accept The Washington Post’s report as being completely true, it’s much ado about very little.” That’s a pretty shocking thing to say about what could amount to felony child sexual abuse, and all the more so because Moore has positioned himself as a moral crusader. Breitbart’s Joel Pollak appeared on TV, downplaying the allegations, especially from the other women. Several other Alabama GOP officials told Daniel Dale the allegations didn’t change their support for Moore. Another told Talking Points Memo that accuser Leigh Corfman should take a lie-detector test.
These “if true” statements are in a way reasonable: No one would ask an innocent man to step down after a false accusation. Yet it’s unclear what proof they would accept. Moore is unlikely to confirm the allegations. (A campaign statement called them “baseless” but did not specifically deny any of the accounts in the Post story.) The women in question all spoke to the newspaper on the record, with their names attached, and reporters were able to confirm many details based on court records and interviews with people who were told about the events at the time. The women’s accounts are consistent with each other. It’s hard to imagine what further evidence would emerge that would be strong enough to pass this test.
Trump and Moore share certain characteristics. Both are outsiders, widely disliked by party leadership before their runs. GOP leaders lined up against Moore during the Senate primary, but despite the backing of Trump and McConnell, among others, Moore defeated Luther Strange, the interim senator. Moore had earned the disdain of Republicans for his outlandish statements and broadsides against McConnell. He has twice been removed as chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court after defying federal courts.
There is one difference. Trump had reveled in his playboy reputation before the sexual-assault tape, while Moore has painted himself as a religious warrior, and a defender of traditional sexual morality. His record of anti-gay statements extends back decades. It includes not only his second removal from office, for instructing probate judges to ignore the law allowing same-sex marriages, but extends up to Wednesday, when Moore said that “the transgenders don’t have rights.”
The allegations against Moore would make him a hypocrite, but he was already a proud bigot. Besides, he is widely disliked by GOP officeholders. For weeks, when pressed on Moore, many officials have dodged questions or avoided comment.
The newest allegations against Moore present Republicans with a choice—not only individual officeholders, but the party as a whole, both nationally and in Alabama. Withdrawing support for Moore, and calling for voters not to support him, would be a bitter pill. It’s too late to replace him on the ticket, and although there’s talk of a Luther Strange write-in campaign, a Moore defeat would probably mean the seat goes to Democrat Doug Jones. And yet if the party’s members can’t bring themselves to set aside narrow partisan interest and condemn a man whom they despise, with a track record of bigotry, and with multiple on-the-record accusations of improper sexual misconduct with underage women, what behavior and which candidate can they possibly rule out in the future?


Updated on November 10, 2017
Roy Moore, the controversial GOP nominee for a U.S. Senate seat in Alabama, had sexual contact with a 14-year-old in the 1970s, and pursued two other teenaged girls, according to a bombshell Washington Post report published early Thursday afternoon.
Leigh Corfman told the Post that she met Moore, then a 32-year-old district attorney, outside a courtroom in Etowah County, Alabama. Moore obtained her phone number, then made arrangements to pick her up near her house a few days later. She said that on a first date, he kissed her. On a second encounter, she said, he took off her pants and shirt and his own clothes, touched her over her bra and underwear, and guided her hand to touch his penis over his underwear.
The Lawlessness of Roy Moore
“I wasn’t ready for that—I had never put my hand on a man’s penis, much less an erect one,” she said. Corfman, 53, said she had never made a public accusation for several reasons, but said it had weighed on her. A Trump voter, she’d prayed over the decision to speak out about Moore and decided to do it. She said she had considered confronting Moore previously, and vomited after seeing a story about him on Good Morning America.
The age of sexual consent in Alabama, then and now, is 16, so Moore’s alleged action would constitute second-degree sexual abuse, a misdemeanor. Enticing someone younger than 16 into a home for genital touching is a felony. The Post corroborated elements of Corfman’s account using court records and interviews with her mother and a friend to whom she recounted the events at the time.
The Post also spoke to three women who dated Moore briefly when they were between 16 and 18 and he was in his thirties. One said he first approached her at 14, and asked her for a date at 16, but her mother refused. Another recalled Moore buying her glasses of wine before she was of legal drinking age. The women said they found the attention flattering at the time but disturbing in retrospect.
“If these allegations are true, he must step aside,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said in a statement. A string of other Republican officeholders, including Cory Gardner, who leads the GOP’s Senate campaign, made similar statements. The Atlantic reached out to all 52 Republican senators to ask whether they think Moore should withdraw from the Alabama Senate race, based on the allegations. Nineteen senators responded, all suggesting that if the Washington Post allegations are true, Moore should withdraw from the race.
In a statement, Nebraska Senator Ben Sasse said, “The Post’s story is appalling and heartbreaking. If there’s an ounce of truth to any of this, Roy Moore has no place in public life and ought to drop out immediately. Alabamians should start thinking about who they’ll write in but it’s obvious that conservatives deserve better than this.” Florida Senator Marco Rubio called the report “deeply disturbing and, if true, disqualifying.”
Senator John McCain, though, was unequivocal. “The allegations against Roy Moore are deeply disturbing and disqualifying,” he said. “He should immediately step aside and allow the people of Alabama to elect a candidate they can be proud of.”
Moore, who made his name as a crusading moral and religious conservative, denied the allegations. A campaign statement said, “This garbage is the very definition of fake news and intentional defamation.” Moore tried to undercut the story by leaking the accusations to Breitbart News, a sympathetic outlet, ahead of the Post story.
Throughout his career, Moore has argued the nation needs to return to an earlier and more virtuous, God-fearing era. He has spoken thunderously against LGBT rights, even to the point of defying a federal courts.
Voters in Alabama head to the polls on December 12 to elect a new senator. Moore’s opponent is Democrat Doug Jones, and while Alabama is solidly Republican territory, Moore’s controversial and checkered past has given Democrats some hope of winning the seat, even before the Post story.
Moore is only the latest powerful man to be accused of sexual misconduct in recent weeks, part of a flood of revelations since The New York Times and New Yorker chronicled film producer Harvey Weinstein’s sexual misbehavior, including accusations of rape. (Weinstein denies them.) While politics is widely reported to be a hotbed of sexual abuse, no American politician has faced accusations as serious as the ones against Moore since the current flood began.
The allegations against Moore are even more timely, however, because he is a current candidate for office. At this point, if Moore withdrew from the race, his name would remain on the ballot, according to Alabama Deputy Attorney General Brent Beal, but any votes cast for him would be counted only to ensure that he didn’t receive over 50 percent of the vote. If Moore withdraws from the race, his Democratic opponent, Doug Jones, would still have to get more than 50 percent of the vote. Candidates for the special election were certified on October 11, 2017, which is when the state mails packets to the state’s 67 probate judges—one for each county. The deadline has passed for a party to replace its candidate on the ballot, ballots have already been printed, and some absentee votes have been cast, Beal said.
Given Moore’s history, and his defiant reaction to the accusations, there’s no indication he would seek to withdraw. A longtime Alabama Republican gadfly, Moore has twice been elected chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, and he has twice been thrown out of office. The first time, in 2003, a state court removed him for defying federal court orders to remove a Ten Commandments monument from the Alabama Judicial Building. He returned to office in 2013 but was permanently barred from the court in 2016, after telling probate judges to enforce a ban on gay marriage that been struck down by the U.S. Supreme Court.
Moore also ran twice, unsuccessfully, for the Alabama GOP gubernatorial nomination. Earlier this year, he entered the race to fill the Senate seat of Jeff Sessions, who became U.S. attorney general. Then-Governor Robert Bentley appointed Luther Strange to temporarily fill that seat. Republicans from McConnell, a frequent target of Moore’s criticism, to President Trump endorsed Strange, but Moore defeated him in the September primary.
That left many Republicans in an awkward position, disliking Moore and seeing him as a blot on the party but unwilling to publicly condemn a GOP candidate and possible future colleague. Many Republicans in Washington have tried to avoid discussing Moore at all, but 14, including Senators John Cornyn, Ted Cruz, Mike Lee, and Rand Paul, have all endorsed him, as have some representatives. Cornyn told reporters that the allegations are “deeply disturbing,” but that “the next steps are up to the governor and the people of Alabama,” BuzzFeed  reported. “If these allegations are true, Judge Moore should resign,” Mike Lee said. Calls to the other 12 lawmakers were not immediately returned. Representative Thomas Massie of Kentucky, who also endorsed Moore, declined to comment.
State officials backing Moore were more supportive. “Even if you accept The Washington Post’s report as being completely true, it’s much ado about very little,” Alabama State Auditor Jim Zeigler told The Montgomery Advertiser’s Brian Lyman. Secretary of State John Merrill told HuffPost it was “just another piece of information that will allow [voters] to make their decision” and questioned the timing of the report.
Meanwhile, Moore has continued to court controversy. On Wednesday, Moore said, “The transgenders don’t have rights.” CNN reported Thursday that Moore was removed from a divorce case in the 1990s due to his statements about homosexuality, and other stories have mined his past career in the law as well. The Post reported last month that Moore had been paid $180,000 per year for part-time work at a charity.
The latest allegations create even more of a headache for Republicans, both in Alabama and beyond. Do they distance themselves from Moore and try to defeat him, especially given that his obstinacy and edge in the polls? Or do they continue to grit their teeth and back him, even in the face of the allegations made in the Post story?
In 2016, when a tape of then-candidate Donald Trump boasting about sexual assaulting women was published, many Republicans condemned Trump, but he still won the presidential election about a month later. Trump’s imperviousness to repeated accusations of sexual misconduct, and his own recorded boast about it, has provided a peculiar background to the string of men felled in recent weeks by their past misconduct. It falls to Alabama voters to judge the self-appointed Christian crusader and the allegations against him.
Priscilla Alvarez, Lena Felton, and Taylor Hosking contributed reporting.


The Republican Party has long billed itself as being for family values, for the dignity of work, for lower taxes, and (at least, as the minority party) for balanced budgets.
The House GOP tax bill cuts against all of these positions.
It would raise taxes on about one-third of the middle class by 2027. By eliminating the estate tax, it would benefit heirs of large estates, even if they don’t work a day in their life. Meanwhile, by eliminating some tax breaks often claimed by higher earners, the plan would raise taxes on many upper-middle-class households. As a result, the bill would ironically privilege the “idle rich” over the “working rich.” And by slashing corporate taxes by several trillion dollars, it would raise deficits by trillions of dollars, even according to the most pro-Republican analyses. That might be the biggest problem of all, because when the House bill is taken up in the Senate, it will not be workable under rules that prohibit new laws from adding to the debt after 10 years.
In short, the Republican Party, whose chief legislative talent is the ability to cut taxes anywhere, anytime, is in danger of ending its first year of majority rule with a tax bill that is unpopular, unpassable, and unpopulist.
It is not hard to imagine a tax plan that would be more in line with Republicans’ stated values. But rather than design a modest plan oriented around tax cuts for ordinary American families, their tax plan is oriented almost entirely around another idea: that the gravest problem for the U.S. economy is the marginal tax rate on large corporations, which, they believe, is making America’s firms uncompetitive and driving business activity away from the U.S. As a result, the centerpiece of the House bill is to nearly halve the the corporate tax rate, from 35 percent to 20 percent, at a 10-year cost of about $2 trillion.
Is that the same as a middle-class tax cut? It’s difficult to say that middle-class workers wouldn’t benefit at all from a tax cut that raises corporate profits by hundreds of billions of dollars. But economic analyses by the likes of Lawrence Summers, Len Burman, Gene Steuerle, and Kimberly Clausing have determined that corporate tax cuts enrich corporate shareholders far more than corporate employees. The administration disagrees. In an interview with CNBC, Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser of the White House, argued that a corporate tax cut could “create wage inflation, which means the workers get paid more; the workers have more disposable income, the workers spend more. And we see the whole trickle-down through the economy.” In other words, one side of this debate is filled with economists, and the other side is a rehash of a long-discredited “trickle-down” theory.
The GOP’s devotion to a 20 percent corporate tax rate might not be about national economics so much as about party economics. “The financial contributions will stop” if tax reform fails, Senator Lindsey Graham, of South Carolina, said on Thursday. About 0.5 percent of the U.S. population makes up 68 percent of contributions to political candidates, parties, or PACs, according to Open Secrets, a nonprofit that studies political donations. These contributions are concentrated among the richest households, whose portfolios would benefit immensely from a large tax cut on corporate profits.
The emphasis on corporate tax cuts is a political consideration that risks making the rest of the plan a political embarrassment. In order to make up trillions in lost revenue on corporate taxes, the plan has to raise taxes on large middle-class families and remove popular tax benefits, such as those on adoption and student loans. What sort of governing party punishes adopting parents to give Apple a tax break? Or designs a tax cut that gets bigger over time for the 0.1 percent, while the tax cut for families gets smaller?
Observers experiencing déjà vu may be forgiven. With “repeal and replace,” a procession of reports from the Congressional Budget Office dramatized the effect of kicking 20 million people off health care, contributing to the bill’s ultimate failure. With “tax reform,” another procession of analyses from the University of Pennsylvania, the Tax Policy Center, and the Joint Committee on Taxation strongly suggest that the House plan would ultimately raise taxes on middle-class families with children, while cutting taxes dramatically for rich, layabout heirs.
But while repeal and replace was doomed from the start, a better GOP tax plan—that actually adheres to the party’s values—would actually be simple to achieve. Cut the corporate rate from 35 percent to 30 percent, not all the way to 20 percent. Forget about slashing taxes on pass-through income for small businesses. Keep or modify the estate tax. Increase the child tax credit and make the family benefit permanent. Voila: That plan would combine a modest corporate tax cut with a larger middle-class tax break, without breaking the bank with trillions of dollars in deficits after this decade.


WARREN, Mich.—Macomb County is the kind of place that has become a familiar totem of our current politics: a blue-leaning county in middle America that flipped from Barack Obama in 2012 to Trump in 2016.
It’s the kind of place that Republicans had in past years written off, and which holds special symbolic value for people like ex-White House chief strategist and campaign CEO Steve Bannon, who gave a speech at a local Republican Party dinner here on the anniversary of the election. Or, in Bannon’s words, “the first anniversary of the high holy day of MAGA.”
But the speech came at an awkward time for Bannon and the movement he spearheads, a day after Democrats won a large number of state-level elections. One year in, Trumpism is at a crossroads. Virginia’s gubernatorial election was a particularly ominous sign for the GOP. Ed Gillespie, a former lobbyist and Republican National Committee chair, lost decisively to his Democratic opponent after almost-but-not-quite reinventing himself as a Trumpist candidate. That followed a surprisingly narrow win over his primary opponent Corey Stewart, a dyed-in-the-wool Trumpist whose most notable accomplishment last year as Trump’s Virginia chairman was being fired after organizing a protest of the RNC. Gillespie never figured out what kind of candidate he really was. In an era in which all Republican candidates are to some extent defined by Trump, he fell flat with Virginia voters.
How a Non-Incumbent GOP Winner in Virginia Stayed Above Water
Bannon had been bullish on a Gillespie win and had even offered to campaign for him—a suggestion that Gillespie rejected. (Gillespie also kept distance from Trump himself, who accused him after the fact of “not embracing me or what I stand for.”) Bannon told The New York Times earlier this week that Gillespie had “rallied around the Trump agenda.”
“Trumpism without Trump can show the way forward,” Bannon said.
Bannon and his fellow travelers have cast Gillespie’s loss not as an indication that Trump is toxic, but as a cautionary tale about what happens when you don’t hug Trump tightly enough. They have pointed out that Gillespie wasn’t their first choice to begin with.
“I think it’s really fucking hilarious that the McConnell people are running around trying to pin this on us when it was their candidate in the primaries,” said one Bannon ally. “It’s true that towards the end we tried putting lipstick on a pig, but that’s always a difficult thing to do.”
Stewart, who is planning to run for Senate in 2018, told me Gillespie’s defeat shows “how important it is to support the president and have a strong message, and not do what Ed Gillespie did which is basically to have no message. He ran away from the president and the Republican base stayed home because of it.”
Stewart pointed out that Jill Vogel, the Republican candidate for lieutenant governor whom Bannon praised as a “fire-breathing populist”, outperformed Gillespie (though she still lost). The Bannon ally said Vogel had met weeks ago with Bannon and his team and had told them that she was concerned Gillespie would drag down her numbers.
Bannon’s attitude toward Gillespie shifted quickly after Tuesday. Breitbart called Gillespie a “swamp creature” and Bannon briefly addressed the Virginia result during his Michigan speech after about 20 minutes of play-by-play reminisces of the 2016 election. He portrayed the loss as an unfortunate but not surprising defeat of an establishment squish in an increasingly liberal state.
Calling Gillespie a “good man” but “more of an establishment guy” than Stewart, Bannon said “Virginia is a blue state now. One of the things that the Gillespie campaign shows is that you can’t fake the Trump agenda. You have to go all in.” Bannon said he hadn’t been comfortable with how much time Trump spent campaigning in Virginia, which he lost to Hillary Clinton by five points.
But Republicans outside Bannon-world think Tuesday’s results may herald a wider backlash at the ballot box against the party’s embrace of Trump, particularly in suburban areas. An energized Democratic base came out in droves to vote in Virginia, a sign of the opposition’s commitment to its cause and its level of energy heading into 2018.
“That suburban vote is scary,” the Republican pollster and data analyst Chris Wilson, who worked on Ted Cruz’s presidential campaign, said in an email. “If it were just VA, we could put it down to federal workers and contractors, but it happened in PA and elsewhere too.  If you're a GOP incumbent in a heavily suburban, college-educated district, I think you're worried today and rightfully so.”
And the tide swept over down-ballot races as well.
“Usually I think the pundits and some in the media overreach by trying to draw huge national conclusions from an individual race,” the Republican consultant Terry Sullivan, Marco Rubio’s former campaign manager, told me. “But what happened in Virginia on Tuesday wasn’t just one race it was across the ballot. The huge Democrat gains in the House of Delegates are a much better indicator of the prevailing political winds, than the top of the ticket. The losses for down-ballot Republicans are going to be more indicative of voting by party versus for an individual candidate as they are less well known.”
“You could debate what is causing the headwind for Republicans but you can’t debate that there is one,” Sullivan said.
Though Trump’s core supporters have shown they will stick with him no matter what he does or doesn’t do, he is broadly unpopular, with his national approval ratings hovering in the 30s for much of his presidency so far (and lately hitting new lows). But he was unpopular during the campaign, too, and still won, by turning out votes in places like Macomb County where Democrats didn’t see a threat.
Many from the Trump campaign and the White House have become more famous than your average political hack, but none more so than Bannon. Bannon travels in a celebrity-like bubble, arriving at the venue in Warren in a convoy of SUVs accompanied by an entourage of employees and surrounded by security guards. He had spent most of the day holding meetings in a nearby Holiday Inn. Bannon and his crew went into a small room with fresco-style murals on the wall off the main event floor at Andiamo, an Italian restaurant and venue in Warren, where he took photos with attendees of the VIP reception and wrote down notes for his speech. His signature Orvis waxed jacket was handed off to Breitbart London editor Raheem Kassam, who then passed it on to Andy Surabian, Bannon’s political adviser.
After rarely speaking publicly in the White House, Bannon has warmed to the spotlight in recent weeks, giving a series of speeches all over the country—in Alabama for Roy Moore, at the California Republican Party convention, and in a session about Qatar at the Hudson Institute. Bannon has developed what is essentially a stump speech aimed at promoting his intra-party insurgency against Mitch McConnell and the establishment; he is positioning himself as a kingmaker in the 2018 cycle, giving his blessing and funding from his Mercer-backed political network to insurgent candidates trying to unseat Republican incumbents. He is appearing at a dinner in New Hampshire on Thursday and at the Citadel in South Carolina on Friday, as well as at the Zionist Organization of America dinner on Sunday in New York. He has begun to do more television, as well, though so far mostly confined to Sean Hannity’s Fox News show, and is making frequent appearances on Breitbart’s satellite radio show.
Bannon exhorted those in the crowd to not wallow in reminiscing over Trump’s victory—notwithstanding a nostalgic “lock her up” chant that broke out in the audience at one point—and to keep their eye on the ball: “2018 is fast approaching, and I mean like today,” he said, warning that there would be “some dark days in front of us, some defeats in front of us.”
Lessons from the defeat on Tuesday only go so far. Not every state is Virginia, and next year’s Senate races are mostly taking place in states that are more amenable to the president.
“Trump won Michigan; he didn’t win Virginia, so it’s different,” said Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette, who is the establishment favorite in the state’s gubernatorial election in 2018. Schuette met with Bannon on Wednesday. “We’re gonna win Michigan in 2018 as well.” Many in the crowd wore pins for Schuette’s primary opponent Patrick Colbeck, a conservative state senator.
“My campaign’s about bridges to all segments of the Republican Party, and I said very forthrightly I’m thrilled to have the endorsement and support of President Trump,” he said.


In Karen Stenner’s penetrating 2005 study of the forces that tear societies apart, she explains that some people strongly prefer diversity, dynamism, and difference, while others have a powerful, possibly innate need for oneness and sameness. Politicians can exploit the latter predisposition, as Donald Trump did when he told his fellow Americans that their usurping Kenyan president was too lazy, disloyal, and incompetent to stop Mexican rapists, Muslim terrorists, and minority street gangs—and that only he could stop the “carnage” on America’s streets.
Trump’s unusually naked authoritarian rhetoric stoked dark fears and prejudices, activating the latent predispositions toward intolerance possessed by some in his base. Anti-immigrant sentiments increased. Calls for a Muslim ban were cheered. A fearful faction turned out. And despite losing the popular vote, Trump reshaped his party.
Before Republican Ed Gillespie was defeated in the Virginia governor’s race this week, he ran a campaign pitched to trigger the authoritarian instincts of those same voters.
“Gone was the staid, traditional Republican who nearly upset Mark Warner in 2014 through careful appeal to conservative suburbanites,” Jamelle Bouie observed. “Gillespie remade himself as a demagogue, playing on white racial resentment. He blasted Northam on MS-13—tying the gang to ‘sanctuary cities’ and undocumented immigration—promised to protect Confederate monuments (‘our statue’ declared his ads), and linked Northam to protests by NFL players. Gillespie may have put physical distance between himself and Trump, who never came to campaign on his behalf, but rhetorically he wasn’t far behind the president.”
Why didn’t those tactics bring victory?
As Ron Brownstein tells it, the “coalition of transformation,” his phrase for “the modern Democratic voting base that’s mostly clustered around the nation’s major metropolitan centers: minorities, Millennials, and college-educated whites, especially women, “generally express optimism about the demographic, cultural, and economic changes remaking American life,” and “provided Democrats with insurmountable margins on Tuesday that reflected their intense antipathy toward Trump.”
Watching those voters turn out in Virginia suburbs to defeat the Republican candidate, I thought of another insight from Stenner that helps to explain their behavior.
In her taxonomy, “authoritarians” are those who have the most extreme preference for oneness and sameness; at the other end the political spectrum are her “libertarians,” so-called because they are not merely anti-authoritarian, but ascribe a positive value to diversity and difference, and thus strongly oppose coercive measures to impose sameness on the population in the name of unity. Under many circumstances, those two types behave almost indistinguishably. In 2008, for example, Barack Obama had supporters from both of those groups; the folks with a latent predisposition to authoritarianism had not been activated—and because difference and diversity weren’t threatened, libertarians weren’t activated either.
But once authoritarians are triggered, they “clamor for authoritative constraints on racial diversity, political dissent, and moral deviance,” a broad crackdown on difference.
“Libertarians will have little concern for the uses of the collective authority until other people’s ambitions for its usage suggest that they ought to take interest in its limits,” Stenner writes. “The challenge presented to libertarians by these same conditions, then, is to celebrate and defend individual autonomy and diversity at precisely those moments when these favored social arrangements and outcomes might seem to be in jeopardy.”
Hillary Clinton’s weakness as a candidate, the Electoral College, Trump’s celebrity (which blinded some Americans to the authoritarianism of his campaign), and the widespread expectation that he would lose combined to help the president to win in 2016, despite the backlash that authoritarianism reliably triggers. Nevertheless, Stenner’s “libertarians” were awoken by his victory. They took to the streets in protest, spontaneously congregated at airports to help those affected by Trump’s first travel ban, and began to organize politically at the local level.
Enter Gillespie, who needed to appeal to the authoritarians in Trump’s base to win over the president’s coalition; and he appeared to win those voters, but in doing so, he guaranteed a backlash populated by those suddenly-invested libertarians.
In Virginia, their backlash was bigger.
In the 2018 midterms, the relative strength of these same camps will likely be tested again. Here is how Stenner described the underlying “authoritarian dynamic”:
Authoritarians and libertarians are mobilized in defense of that which they value only when those valued ends appear to be in jeopardy. For each side, this will be when they are induced to fear that those ends, and the social arrangements that serve them, might be at risk, or starting to seem too risky for the collective … Mean levels of intolerance may remain constant or even decline. But it will be a very different world indeed.
The aggregate result of activating this dynamic will be deeply intensified value conflict across the tolerance domain, sharply polarized politics, and enormously increased demands upon the polity: for greater and lesser discrimination against minorities and restrictions on immigration; for more and fewer limits on free speech, assembly, and association; for stricter and softer policies on common rites, abortion, censorship, and homosexuality; for harsher and more lenient punishment.
A “debilitating culture war” ensues.
Trump wouldn’t have won but for the authoritarian dynamic. Stephen Bannon still thinks it can propel other Republicans to victory. Breitbart and Sean Hannity will keep triggering authoritarians, but Virginia casts new doubt on their dark tactics.
Bouie argues that had Gillespie won or come close, “other Republicans would have taken note, charging into 2018 with campaigns aimed at the same kind of voters, with the same kind of message, with the same basic goal: to obscure an otherwise unpopular agenda with targeted appeals to white racism.” And he’s right, save for the fact that the appeals in question are better understood as targeting authoritarianism, which can manifest as white racism but is more varied and complicated, being rooted in discomfort with difference, not ideological white supremacy.
He adds:
Now, instead of organizing around Trump-like appeals, Republicans have to reckon with the political environment going into next year. And that environment is dangerous. Trump is deeply unpopular, tangled by scandal and investigation. And Republicans overall are well behind in the generic congressional ballot, trailing Democrats by 10 points. In theory, individual Republicans can distance themselves from the president, but Virginia shows that is more difficult than it seems, even against a lackluster opponent. Gillespie tried as much as he could to downplay his connection to Trump.
It didn’t work.
In the old political landscape, Republicans excelled at winning seats in Congress and state legislatures, even while losing the White House for an eight-year period. Triggering authoritarians was probably the only way Trump could have won the White House. But that change may yet fuel a backlash that costs Republicans much more.


In Donald Trump’s America, government-run health care isn’t in retreat—it’s on the march.
Voters in Maine on Tuesday decisively chose to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act to more than 70,000 additional residents, overruling a conservative governor who vetoed similar measures five separate times. In Virginia, health care buoyed Democrat Ralph Northam to a nine-point victory, with exit polls showing the issue was far and away the most important for voters. And across the country, early indications are that consumers are enrolling in insurance plans on the Obamacare exchanges in record numbers, confounding expectations that sign-ups would plummet following attempts by the Trump administration to dismantle the law.
Taken together, the developments paint a startling picture just a year after voters elected Republicans to the White House and to Congress on the promise of reducing the government’s role in health care by repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act.
The Shadow Government Working to Save Obamacare From Collapse
The most direct change occurred in Maine, which will become the 32nd state to adopt the ACA’s Medicaid expansion after voters there approved a ballot initiative by a margin of nearly 18 points, 59 percent to 41 percent. The state is the first to expand Medicaid on a statewide referendum rather than in the legislature. “It’s a critical shift in the fight for health care,” said Jonathan Schleifer, executive director of the Fairness Project, an advocacy group that backed the ballot initiative. “At a time when everyone was expecting health care to go in one direction, with fewer people covered and higher costs, Mainers took it in the opposite direction last night.”
Their campaign now moves to red states like Utah, Idaho, and Nebraska, where activists plan new pushes to put Medicaid expansion on the ballot in 2018. In Alaska, there’s already a movement for state voters to protect the state’s expansion from federal cuts in Congress. “The victory [Tuesday night] is going to fuel a movement across the country to expand and lock in Medicaid and bring health care to millions of people,” Schleifer said in a phone interview Wednesday.
The ACA made billions of federal dollars available to states that increased eligibility for the program that provides health care to poor and low-income Americans. The Supreme Court ruled in 2012 that the expansion must be voluntary for states, and many controlled by Republicans opted out.
Tuesday’s results are also giving new hope for action by state legislatures, where efforts to expand Medicaid have stalled amid fights over ideology and budgetary constraints. In Virginia, outgoing Democratic Governor Terry McAuliffe has been unable to pass a Medicaid expansion through the Republican-controlled legislature. But because of more than a dozen Democratic pickups in local races on Tuesday, Northam could have a narrow majority in the House of Delegates and more leverage to pressure the state Senate, where Republicans have a slim advantage.
And in Kansas, a coalition of moderate Republicans and Democrats could make another push to expand Medicaid when the legislature reconvenes in January. Earlier this year, the state House and Senate fell just a few votes shy of overriding Governor Sam Brownback’s veto on an expansion bill.  State Representative Susan Concannon, a Republican who led the Medicaid push, said many supporters were discouraged in the spring and summer by the continued efforts in Congress to repeal Obamacare and felt it was “too late” for the state to expand Medicaid. But with the repeal drive shelved and after the vote in Maine, the dynamic may change. “For us in Kansas, it really is an inspiration that they were persistent,” she told me on Wednesday. “It’s something that we can point at as a success.”
The most surprising development in the health-care wars, however, may be happening in the marketplace rather than the ballot box. According to data released Thursday morning by the Trump administration, enrollment in the Obamacare insurance exchanges surged during the initial days of this year’s sign-up period, which began November 1. Analysts had expected enrollment to fall amid reports of sharp premium increases and a decision by the Trump administration to slash the budget for outreach and advertising by 90 percent. In response, ex-Obama administration officials set up their own public-awareness campaign, which included a video recording by the former president.
But those involved in the effort attribute the spike in enrollment to a quirk in the way the Trump administration has managed the law. Trump’s decision to withhold payments to insurers ended up triggering higher direct subsidies for consumers. As a result, people in some areas can find high-deductible plans with much lower premiums, or even no monthly payments at all. “For many people, the premiums are lower than they ever have been before,” said Lori Lodes, co-founder of the advocacy group Get America Covered. The additional cost is to taxpayers, meaning the Trump administration’s decisions are ultimately increasing the federal government’s hand in health care, at least in the short term.
The ACA, of course, still faces many challenges. The initial spike in enrollment may be short-lived. People who do not qualify for government assistance are likely to be on the hook for much higher costs. Republicans could make another run at repealing the law early next year, an effort that might short-circuit state efforts to expand Medicaid legislatively.
And even in Maine, the fight over Medicaid isn’t over. Governor Paul LePage, the conservative who vetoed expansion bills five times, reacted defiantly to the vote his constituents took against his explicit wishes. In a statement Wednesday morning, he said the decision would be “ruinous” to Maine’s budget and that he would not implement the expansion until it had been “fully funded” by the legislature. Opponents of the referendum allied with LePage had argued expanding Medicaid would force the state to make cuts to programs benefitting the poor. “You can’t squeeze ketchup out of a turnip,” said Brent Littlefield, a former LePage adviser who ran the opposition campaign.
Backers of the initiative, however, were unbowed. “The legislature will move swiftly to fund Medicaid expansion as required by law,” responded Sara Gideon, the Democratic speaker of the state House. “Any attempts to illegally delay or subvert this law will not be tolerated and will be fought with every recourse at our disposal. Mainers demanded affordable access to health care [Tuesday], and that is exactly what we intend to deliver.”
David Farmer, a spokesman for the pro-expansion group Mainers for Health Care, told me the ballot measure would, by law, take effect 45 days after the legislature reconvenes in January and that the state government must implement expanded Medicaid eligibility within 180 days after that. “The governor cannot ignore the law or the constitution of Maine. He can’t do it,” Farmer said. He characterized LePage’s typically combative statement as more bluster than proclamation. “It may or may not be illustrative of what he actually intends to do,” Farmer said. “As we’ve seen in Maine, the governor says a lot of things.”
In Maine and elsewhere, Democrats took comfort in elections in which voters turned out not merely to defend gains already won in health care, but to expand them to others. “The cynical vision that says people aren’t willing to stand up for their neighbors and only act when it’s in their self interest is actually not a fair representation of Americans,” Schleifer said, “and Mainers proved that last night.”


After Virginia, the Democratic Party is breathing a sigh of relief. The rather easy victory for Governor-elect Ralph Northam stems the tide of recent hemorrhaging of key positions across the United States to Republicans, and continues Democrats’ control over a blue-ish state. Northam’s victory, and that of Justin Fairfax, the second black official elected in a statewide race in Virginia, also offers a sign that virulent and race-baiting white-identity politics—politics that characterize the Trump era and the late portion of Republican Ed Gillespie’s campaign—are beatable, even in the cradle of the old Confederacy.
How Redistricting Became a Technological Arms Race
Those signs are reason enough for Democrats to celebrate. But the true national significance of Northam’s victory, as well as of major gains by the party in the General Assembly, might not be in the message they send, but the fact that those gains constitute the first big victory for Democrats in the political mapmaking game in at least a decade.
Republican hegemony in the decennial political-redistricting game is well documented. The competition to control just who draws each state’s political maps has taken shape as an arms race, with Republicans capturing the advantage over the past 20 years through a combination of technology, big data, expertise, and electoral strategy. The result has been a set of some of the most contentious—and legally challenged—racial and political gerrymanders in history. But despite the controversy, Republican strength has also increased, as target states where Republicans gained control of the mapmaking process in 2010 saw their share of legislative seats steadily grow, even as their actual vote shares decreased. In other words, these maps helped Republicans retain majorities even when they earned substantially fewer votes.
The states in Republicans’ crosshairs in 2010 were the ones that so often pop up in dozens of lawsuits about voting rights—Wisconsin, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Michigan—all crucial swing states in the 2016 election. All four states have also seen demographic shifts over the past 20 years that have increased their importance. Via the well-known REDMAP project, Republicans spent millions in legislative and governors’ races in those states, resulting in huge Republican gains, and also in Republican control over the 2011 redistricting process, which in turn engendered more Republican gains.
While not one of the core successes of REDMAP, Virginia was always a priority in long-term strategy. For one, the architect of REDMAP was Ed Gillespie, the former Republican State Leadership Council leader whom Northam beat yesterday. But Virginia has also been a key proof-of-concept for gerrymandering.
A purpling state with distinct geographic patterns of movement and a burgeoning population, Virginia would be an ideal state for showcasing some of the recent extreme trends in redistricting: packing reams of Democratic voters in Northern Virginia and the Tidewater into a select few districts, and then picking off influential D.C. suburbs and college towns across the state and diluting Democratic votes by placing them in heavily-red districts. And, in the case of Virginia, with well-known settlement patterns, such a map might be drawn purely on partisanship lines instead of using race, a factor in political mapmaking that has recently attracted the ire of courts.
That Virginia didn’t succumb to such a political mapmaking is in part because of the failure of either party to capture majorities in the General Assembly and the governor’s house at the same time. In Virginia, like in many states, the governor has veto power over maps passed by the state legislature, a dynamic that makes compromise necessary if Democrats and Republicans split control of the two branches.
“Democrats were in charge in the [Virginia] Senate, and Republicans were in charge in the House of Delegates,” says Brian Cannon, the director of the nonpartisan redistricting reform group One Virginia 2021. “We ended up getting a bipartisan gerrymander.”
The scheme created by Democrats and Republicans in 2011 that Cannon mentions was a strange one: Yes, it created unnatural districts using tactics that might be considered gerrymandering in any light, but those tactics were used to preserve incumbency and the current balance of power in the statehouse.
With Republicans running the same playbook in REDMAP 2020, and Democrats countering with a well-funded redistricting scheme of their own, the National Democratic Redistricting Committee (NDRC), the 2017 Virginia election was both the first and one of the most important battlegrounds between the two efforts. According to Kelly Ward, the executive director of the NDRC, “a good portion of the Democratic disadvantage in Congress boils down to seven states,” many of which have seats and governorships on the table in 2018. “You have Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Florida, Virginia, and Pennsylvania,” Ward says. “If Democrats can win those seats, then we have a seat at the table during the redistricting process.”
What Ward’s group needed to block a power play by Republicans in Virginia was a win in the governor’s mansion or at least a stalemate in the statehouse. She might’ve gotten both and more. Northam’s single term will take him through the redistricting cycle. With somewhere between 15 and 19 seats flipped in the state legislature (pending recounts), Democrats might even control the House of Delegates for now, while Republicans still hold a slim advantage in the state Senate. But the real test again comes in 2019, when all of the seats in both the House of Delegates and the Senate will be up for grabs in a final round of jockeying for mapmaking.
With hard fights ahead in 2018 and 2020 in places like Texas, Georgia, and Florida, an uphill climb to gain even veto or compromise power in North Carolina, Michigan, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania, and one more big push in Virginia, Democrats and opponents of 2010’s extreme gerrymanders will take the wins as they can.


Today marked the first anniversary of Donald Trump’s election. Ralph Northam’s victory in the Virginia governor’s race energized Democrats nationwide, as they look to make gains in 2018. During his visit to China, Trump called on Beijing to put greater economic pressure on North Korea. In her confirmation hearing, Kirstjen Nielsen, Trump’s pick to lead the Department of Homeland Security, said she backed border security, but opposed a wall across the entire U.S.-Mexico border. The Justice Department called on AT&T to sell Turner Broadcasting, which includes CNN, for approval of its $85.4 billion merger with Time Warner.
A Nation’s Moral Character: From Republicans refusing to take a stand against President Trump to university faculty yielding to political correctness, America is facing a crisis in courage. (Eliot A. Cohen)
Grading the Presidency: Julian E. Zelizer argues that by some metrics, such as executive orders, Trump has been successful thus far. But by other, more important ones, he has failed.
The Coalition Reforms: Democratic victories Tuesday night were largely due to the realignment of college-educated white voters, but the party will still have to win over more of Trump’s supporters to succeed in the 2018 midterms. (Ronald Brownstein)
Introducing The Atlantic Interview: In the inaugural episode of The Atlantic Interview, The Atlantic's editor in chief Jeffrey Goldberg talks with the novelist Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie about race, identity, and her reaction to a nervous interviewer calling her “Chimichanga.” Atlantic correspondent Ta-Nehisi Coates makes a cameo.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.


‘The Savior?’: A year after his election, Trump hasn’t helped small towns like Johnstown, Pennsylvania, much—but residents love him anyway. (Michael Kruse, Politico)
Murphy in the Mansion: Philip D. Murphy is the first Democrat to be elected as New Jersey’s governor in eight years. Will the “political newbie” prove to be more than just a wealthy former ambassador? (Nick Corasaniti, The New York Times)
Trapped: For undocumented immigrants residing in the United States, appearing in court can become a trap. (Steve Coll, The New Yorker)
The Losing Couple: Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner’s first year in Washington, D.C., is not shaping up as planned, but moving back to New York isn’t as promising as it once was, either. (Emily Jane Fox, Vanity Fair)
‘Discrimination Is a Disqualifier’: When Danica Roem was elected to Virginia’s House of Delegates on Tuesday night, she became the first openly transgender person elected to a state legislature. Antonio Olivo recaps her historic campaign against conservative incumbent Robert G. Marshall. (The Washington Post)
How Did Virginians Vote?: Exit polls—broken down by factors like gender, race, and gun ownership—reveal how Virginians voted in the gubernatorial race. (The Washington Post)
The Wall, Eight Ways: Here are the prototypes under consideration for Trump’s U.S.-Mexico border wall. (Jennifer Medina, Josh Haner, Josh Williams, and Quoctrung Bui, The New York Times)
In this Esquire story, political commentators, insiders, and journalists shared their memories from November 8, 2016. Many of them, including members of Donald Trump’s own circle, expected Hillary Clinton to win the presidential election.
Where were you during the 2016 election? What are your memories from that day?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Lena Felton (@lenakfelton) and Taylor Hosking (@Taylor__Hosking)


Notre Dame announced on Tuesday that faculty, students, and staff will be able to obtain coverage for contraceptives through their university-sponsored insurance plans. The surprise decision is a reversal of the school’s announcement last week that it would discontinue birth-control coverage in light of new religious-freedom protections put in place by the Trump administration.
The Catholic university was one of a handful of religious non-profits that sued the government over the birth-control mandate in the Affordable Care Act, citing moral objections to the opt-out procedure offered by the Obama administration. After a half decade of litigation and debate, ultimately leading to a victory for Notre Dame’s cause, the university has voluntarily chosen to embrace a status quo that seems to undermine its original legal position and interpretation of Catholic doctrine. Although the administration claims it reversed course out of respect for the diversity of its community, it’s not clear why it wouldn’t have taken faculty and student objections into account years ago. Meanwhile, religious-freedom advocates see the university’s move as a setback for their cause, because it potentially casts doubt on the sincerity and depth of moral objections to birth control.
Notre Dame’s Moral Dilemma Over Birth Control
From the start, Notre Dame was in a more difficult position than some of the other non-profits that sued the government over Obamacare. Unlike, say, the Little Sisters of the Poor, who largely employ elderly nuns, Notre Dame is a huge, diverse institution that provides insurance benefits to people from a range of religious and ideological backgrounds. While the school is Catholic, it doesn’t require faculty or students to be Catholic or sign a statement of faith—“what it means to be a Catholic institution is a little more contested,” said Bryan McGraw, an associate professor of politics at the evangelical Wheaton College. “This kind of ambivalence was reflected in its litigation.”
Notre Dame was less successful than some of the other religious non-profits that took on cases. The school argued that even signing a waiver of exemption from the birth-control mandate was a form of facilitating immoral conduct, causing a theological “scandal”—defined in the Catholic tradition, in their words, as encouraging others to engage in wrongdoing. The school lost at the Seventh Circuit and appealed all the way to the Supreme Court, but the case was eventually remanded and effectively dropped. In the end, the school decided to comply with the mandate rather than face significant financial penalties.
But the situation changed when President Trump got elected. In early October, after the Trump administration announced new moral and religious exemptions to the Affordable Care Act, Notre Dame’s president, Father John Jenkins, “[welcomed] this reversal.” Under President Obama, “the government decreed which institutions were sufficiently religious to be exempted and forced those who were not to sign the HHS waiver,” he said in a statement. Last week, a new policy was announced: All birth-control coverage in university-sponsored plans would end on December 31.
Over the past month, birth-control coverage “has been a huge focal point of discussion” on campus, said Katherine Bermingham, a member of the school’s independent Graduate Workers Collective. (I attended college with Bermingham.) The group staged a demonstration, and the student paper, The Observer, covered the issue closely. “Most of the audible voices are people who really think contraception is a matter of conscience,” Bermingham said, and who believe “the university should not be using economic and political power to coerce the decisions of its employees.” Other students supported the university: Alison O’Neil, a sophomore, recently wrote in a letter to the editor at The Observer that her peers should “stop criticizing a Catholic university for upholding its belief system.”
“No one tells you that you’ll be subject to conservative Catholic doctrine ... when you are being wooed for a job.”
But then, on Tuesday, Notre Dame suddenly changed course. Although the university “follows Catholic teaching about the use of contraceptives,” which are prohibited, the administration “[recognized] … the plurality of religious and other convictions among its employees,” the university’s human resources office said in an email. Meritain Health and OptumRx, two of its medical-benefits providers, “advised that they will now continue to provide contraceptives,” and the school “will not interfere with the provision of contraceptives that will be administered and funded independently of the university.”* In other words: Now that the government isn’t demanding university officials sign any form having to do with contraception, the administration is prepared to  look the other way at what its health-insurance providers covered.
In an email, Paul J. Browne, the university’s vice president of communications, insisted that Notre Dame had not flip-flopped. After the Trump administration’s October announcement, “we believed that insurance companies would discontinue no-cost coverage for contraceptives for employees at the end of the year,” he said, and “since then, we learned that they would continue such coverage.” The real problem was not with third-party insurers, he said. The problem was the government. “In the previous administration, the federal government took it upon itself to determine which institutions were sufficiently Catholic (parishes, for example) and which were not (universities),” he wrote. “That was unacceptable.”
Jenkins restated this objection to government interference in his annual address to the faculty senate on Tuesday night. The birth-control mandate “was the result not of legislative process but administrative decree,” he said. If religious organizations can’t take exceptions to federal policies, he said, “then they have lost any meaningful religious freedom in the face of the imposition of governmental power.”
Religious-freedom advocates, however, saw the school’s stance as a reversal. “Notre Dame spent five years suing the federal government for the right to provide moral health insurance,” wrote Ryan Anderson, a senior research fellow at the Heritage Foundation, on Twitter. “They now have that right. And they’re choosing not to exercise it. They’re choosing to provide immoral health insurance. Shameful. Scandalous.” McGraw, the Wheaton professor, also observed that the university’s decision may give judges license to doubt the sincerity of other religious groups’ objections.
But the bigger concern, McGraw said, is cultural. “Institutions, when they make these kinds of religious-liberty claims, are almost always pushing back against popular sentiment,” he said. As religious bodies push back against cultural norms, particularly around sex and sexuality, Notre Dame’s lack of steadfastness makes it “much more difficult … to be willing to take the cultural pressure.”
“The fact that I have no idea what really motivated this change shows you something about the lack of communication.”
Notre Dame claims it made its decision out of respect for the pluralism of its community, but it’s not clear how seriously administration officials engaged with concerns about the university’s birth-control policy. In general, there’s not much of a protest culture on campus, said Kristin Shrader-Frechette, a professor of philosophy and biological sciences, because “most students are afraid of sabotaging their recommendations or careers.” Those who do protest—especially on controversial issues like this—might be subject to disciplinary action, raising free-speech concerns, said Gretchen Reydams-Schils, a professor in the program of liberal studies.
The faculty has also been divided—and, in some cases, vocally opposed to Notre Dame’s actions. “None of the stories [have] captured just how much protest, complaint, and outrage was generated by faculty, students, and alums over that decision,” wrote Sarah McKibben, an associate professor of Irish language and literature, in an email. “Many of us have been very upset about this for a long time. Believe me, NO ONE tells you that you’ll be subject to conservative Catholic doctrine for your health care when you are being wooed for a job here.”
It’s not clear why the university made such an abrupt about-face on its policy in the course of less than a week, but several professors speculated that negative press attention scared the administration. “Bad publicity is about the only thing that forces Notre Dame to change,” said Shrader-Frechette. The faculty don’t have much power, she said, and its senate is “for the most part ... ignored.” Professors were not consulted as the university made its decisions, said Reydams-Schils. “The fact that I have no idea what really motivated this change shows you something about the lack of communication.”
In the end, the university seemed more focused on standing against government interference than against birth control. “If Notre Dame does not strongly assert its right to follow Catholic teachings free from government dictates,” Jenkins said to the faculty on Tuesday night, “it could lose its ability to assert those rights in matters that are far more grave from a Catholic perspective.” Separating out that principle of independence from moral objections is complicated, though, and Notre Dame’s choice may further muddy a controversial religious-freedom issue.
For Bermingham, though, this debate was about a very different set of principles. “This isn’t some academic debate—and I’m not trying to disparage academic debates, I love academic debates,” the doctoral student told me. The university’s decision “tangibly affects people.” She and others who protested are relieved that women at Notre Dame will continue to have access to contraception, and are glad the school has reversed itself. “Just as Father Jenkins welcomed and applauded Trump’s decision,” she said, “we welcome and applaud this decision.”
* This article original attributed the statement to Notre Dame President John Jenkins. In fact, it came from the university’s human resources office. We regret the error.


The moment had all the makings of an epic presidential meltdown. It was the eve of Donald Trump’s election anniversary, and Republicans were getting pummeled in races across Virginia, New Jersey, and New York. Pundits on TV and Twitter were blaming the party’s struggles on Trump’s deep unpopularity, and some were predicting a cataclysmic wipeout in next year’s midterms.
Under normal circumstances, such a perfect storm of political defeat and perceived disrespect likely would have occasioned a Trumpian tantrum. And, indeed, there were hints of that in a tweet the president wrote (embracing his new 280-character limit) Tuesday night distancing himself from Virginia’s vanquished Republican gubernatorial candidate: “Ed Gillespie worked hard but did not embrace me or what I stand for. Don’t forget, Republicans won 4 out of 4 House seats, and with the economy doing record numbers, we will continue to win, even bigger than before!”
But beyond that, Trump has held his tongue. It helps that he’s 7,000 miles away from Washington.
If there has been one perfectly predictable pattern in the year since Trump was elected, it may be the way his status anxiety always flares up—whether in the form of angry outbursts, or outlandish provocations—when he’s approaching a milestone of some kind. It is when moments of recognition or triumph are met with insufficient celebration that this president seems to lash out most bitterly.
As I’ve written before, this pattern can be traced back to the 2016 campaign season. Trump formally accepted the Republican nomination for president, and then spent the next week fighting with Gold Star parents and grumbling that Hillary Clinton had not adequately congratulated him on his primary victory. He won the election, and then immediately became so defensive about his popular-vote total that he started championing a conspiracy theory about widespread voter fraud.
The pattern continued after Trump arrived in the Oval Office. When he was sworn in, he seethed about the size of the crowd at his inauguration. When he approached his 100th day in office, he vented on Twitter about the unjust reviews he was getting from historians and pundits (while White House aides scrambled to find last-minute “accomplishments” that he could tout).
So it might have been reasonable to expect he’d celebrate the anniversary of his election in the same manner. Imagine a raucous rally somewhere in Michigan or Wisconsin—thousands of red-hatted die-hards cheering along as Trump relives his glorious victory over Hillary Clinton, maybe indulging in a few nostalgic lock-her-up chants, and then launching into a diatribe against unfair reporters, or unjust judges, or unfaithful Republicans in Congress.
But it hasn’t happened. This time—whether by a happy accident of scheduling, or an impressive feat of handling by White House aides—the president is spending his one-year milestone in Asia. So far in Trump’s young presidency, overseas trips like this one have had a restraining effect on him. He is on a more tightly controlled schedule than usual, with less time to stew between speeches, ceremonial duties, and world-leader meetings. All the travel gives him less access to cable news, and the time difference means he is sleeping through much of the news cycle, unable to set the media agenda for the day with a morning tweetstorm.
That’s not to say Trump has been the perfect paragon of presidential decorum in Asia. There have been signs on this trip that he is eager to slip his leash. During a speech to the South Korean National Assembly, he made a strange and gratuitous reference to his election victory (“exactly one year ago today, I celebrate with you”) and also took the opportunity to hype his golf course in New Jersey.  
But with Trump overseas, America and the many “haters” that reside on its shores have been spared the kind of high-profile spiral into presidential resentment that has become a national tradition in our politics over the past year. Well, almost spared.
On Wednesday afternoon, Trump tweeted a photo of himself posing on Air Force One with a handful of the aides who still remain from his campaign. “Congratulations to all of the ‘DEPLORABLES’ and the millions of people who gave us a MASSIVE (304-227) Electoral College landslide victory!”
It was 2:17 a.m., Beijing time. But it sounded just like something Trump might have said himself.


The Democrats’ “coalition of transformation” flexed its muscles Tuesday to deliver a resounding repudiation of Donald Trump and crystallize the risk the GOP has taken by allowing him to redefine the party in his image.
But despite the party’s sweep in Virginia, New Jersey, and scattered other local races, the results also showed that Democrats are unlikely to solve all of their electoral problems without regaining more ground with the competing “coalition of restoration” that flocked to Trump in 2016.
In that way, the elections of Ralph Northam and Phil Murphy in governors’ races in Virginia and New Jersey, respectively—as well as the historic Democratic victories in the Virginia state House elections—showed the party a clear, suburbs-centric path toward recapturing the U.S. House in 2018. But those contests also hinted that Republicans could still narrowly repel Democrats by defending their redoubts in small-town, exurban, and rural America.
Why a Republican Pollster Is Losing Faith in Her Party
The “coalition of transformation” is the phrase I’ve applied to the modern Democratic voting base that’s mostly clustered around the nation’s major metropolitan centers: minorities, Millennials, and college-educated whites, especially women. These voters, who generally express optimism about the demographic, cultural, and economic changes remaking American life, provided Democrats with insurmountable margins on Tuesday that reflected their intense antipathy toward Trump.
For months, Republican strategists, and even some Democratic ones, have argued that because Trump is such a unique figure, voters unhappy with him were less likely to take it out on other candidates from his party than they’d been with previous presidents. Tuesday’s results exploded that idea. In both the Virginia and New Jersey gubernatorial races, exit polls found a clear majority of voters disapproved of Trump’s job performance—and that in both contests about 85 percent of those dissatisfied voters backed the Democrat. That result fits squarely in the range typical of House and Senate elections over the past two decades. In other words, it clearly signaled to congressional Republicans that they will be bound to Trump more than they hoped or expected in future elections.
The soaring wave of discontent translated into solid turnout and crushing margins for Democrats in their key voter groups, all of which have expressed intense resistance to Trump in polls. Although they declined in number from last year’s presidential race, Millennials slightly increased their share of the vote in both states compared with the 2013 gubernatorial races there. Sixty-nine percent of those young people gave their votes to Northam, and 75 percent gave their votes to Murphy. That’s a chilling trend for Republicans, given that more Millennials will be eligible to vote than baby boomers in 2018 and 2020. Turnout among African Americans, Latinos, and other minorities was also solid. In both states, Democrats carried roughly four out of five non-white voters.
But the principal engine of the Democratic sweep was a suburban tsunami in white-collar communities in Northern Virginia, Northern New Jersey, and even the suburbs of Seattle, where Democrats convincingly captured a state Senate seat that flipped control of that chamber to them. Those results will surely unnerve every U.S. House Republican holding a well-educated suburban seat.
“Tonight, college-educated white voters … collectively stood up and said, ‘Enough,’” said Jesse Ferguson, a former communications director for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. “If I was a Republican representing a suburb, I wouldn’t be able to sleep tonight because there’s a storm brewing.”
Four years after Republican Chris Christie carried almost two-thirds of whites in New Jersey with at least a four-year college education, Murphy won 52 percent of them. In Virginia, Democrats had won between 42 percent and 45 percent of college-educated whites in each of their recent victories there, including Barack Obama’s in 2012, Governor Terry McAuliffe’s in 2013, Senator Mark Warner’s in 2014, and Hillary Clinton’s in 2016. But Northam blew past them to capture 51 percent of college-educated whites against Republican Ed Gillespie.
That emphatic shift undoubtedly reflected a backlash against Gillespie’s turn toward Trump-like themes of cultural confrontation on so-called “sanctuary cities” and Confederate monuments. But it also quantified how much of a potential burden Trump poses for the GOP among those well-educated voters: Fully 58 percent of Virginia’s college-educated whites said they disapproved of his job performance in the exit poll.
Not only did white-collar voters shift toward the Democrats, but they also registered their discontent in astonishing numbers. Northam won populous and affluent Fairfax County by about twice as many votes as McAuliffe in 2013 and Warner in 2014—and, incredibly, by even more than Obama in 2012. Northam bested the McAuliffe and Warner margins by 50 percent or more in Arlington and Alexandria counties just outside of D.C. Just as important, the stampede toward the Democrats extended to suburban Richmond counties, including Henrico and Chesterfield, where the GOP had remained much stronger than in Northern Virginia. It also extended down the ballot to the state House of Delegates. Democrats not only captured several open seats, but they also defeated enough Republican incumbents holding suburban seats to create a dead-even split in the chamber, pending recounts.
“In these urban areas, Trump has taken over the Republican brand, like it or not,” said former Republican Representative Tom Davis, whose district was in Northern Virginia. “The immigrant [policy], his language, his rhetoric—everything is tailored here to that white, non-college[-educated] base in everything he does. He just has no appeal to those suburban people, either personally or politically.”
But Democrats on Tuesday made much less progress cracking the competing Republican coalition, which revolves around older, blue-collar, non-urban, and evangelical whites who generally express anxiety about demographic, cultural, and economic change. Even amid Gillespie’s lopsided defeat, he still held 72 percent of non-college-educated whites and nearly four in five white evangelical Christians. He also improved on the GOP’s margins from 2013 in many rural southwestern counties. And 15 of the 16 state House seats that Democrats captured came in districts that Clinton carried, noted Geoffrey Skelley, the associate editor of the political publication Sabato’s Crystal Ball.
A suburban recoil from Trump in places like New Jersey; the Philadelphia suburbs in Pennsylvania; and Orange County, California, can propel Democrats to the brink of a U.S. House majority: Eighteen of the 23 House Republicans holding seats that Clinton carried in 2016 represent districts with more white college graduates than the national average. And Republicans hold another 30 House seats with higher-than-average numbers of white college graduates where Clinton improved over Obama’s showing in 2012. Tuesday’s blowout is also likely to encourage more retirements among House Republicans in white-collar districts, increasing Democratic opportunity. Still, relying only on white-collar places would leave Democrats very little margin for error. Because the coalition of transformation is so centralized in the largest urban areas, it is better suited for winning the White House than either the House or the Senate (and even that advantage cracked with Trump’s Electoral College win).
Tuesday’s Democratic sweep illuminated the long-term threat the GOP has accepted by allowing Trump to define the party in a manner so toxic to the demographic groups and metropolitan population centers that are growing in the electorate. But Democrats will still be traveling a narrow path in 2018 if they can’t regain more ground in Trump country than they did this week.


The New York Times said on Tuesday night that it had severed its ties with David Boies, one of the country’s most prominent litigators, after he was linked to a clandestine effort to spy on the newspaper’s reporters and prevent the publication of a damaging story about disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein.
“We never contemplated that the law firm would contract with an intelligence firm to conduct a secret spying operation aimed at our reporting and our reporters,” the newspaper said in a statement on Tuesday night.
On Monday night, The New Yorker had detailed the extensive efforts Weinstein used to keep his sexual misconduct out of the public spotlight over the past year. His arsenal of tricks included the use of private investigators to ferret out details about imminent reporting into his wrongdoing. Some of those investigators met with journalists and victims while posing as women’s-rights advocates or victims themselves to determine what they knew.
At the nexus of Weinstein’s efforts was Boies and his high-profile firm Boies Schiller & Flexner. Boies personally signed a contract in July with Black Cube, a private-intelligence agency that touts ex-Mossad agents in its workforce, to uncover information that would discredit a New York Times story about Weinstein’s victims and a then-forthcoming book by actress Rose McGowan. (Weinstein has admitted to sexual misconduct but denied that it was nonconsensual.)
Boies’s involvement in the saga is a public-relations nightmare for himself and his firm, as my colleague Gillian White explained. But legal experts also raised concerns about the ethical questions that may arise from Boies Schiller’s simultaneous representation of the Times in a libel lawsuit, which could be seen as a conflict of interest, as well as Black Cube’s clandestine activities on Weinstein’s behalf.
“Lawyers are not permitted to engage in dishonesty or deceit,” Kathleen Clark, a Washington University law professor who specializes in legal ethics, told me. “Black Cube seems to make its living by engaging in dishonesty and deceit, at least in part.”
Boies, for his part, cast his role in the saga as that of a bystander. He says he counseled Weinstein “that the story could not be stopped by threats or influence and that the only way the story could be stopped was by convincing the Times that there was no rape,” according to The New Yorker. “If evidence could be uncovered to convince the Times the charges should not be published, I did not believe, and do not believe, that that would be averse to the Times’ interest.”
In an email to Boies Schiller staff on Tuesday afternoon that the firm shared with The Atlantic, Boies offered a longer account of events that further distanced himself from Weinstein’s efforts. “I told Mr. Weinstein at that time that neither I nor the Firm would represent him in this matter, and he hired several other lawyers to represent him,” he wrote. Those lawyers then sought out Black Cube and other investigators and wrote up a contract for their services. Boies, by his own telling, then returned to sign a contract drafted by other lawyers between a client he wasn’t representing and private investigators he didn’t choose or oversee in a matter he says he had declined to take part.
Boies described this participation as “a reasonable accommodation to a longtime client” that he now regrets. “It was a mistake to contract with, and pay on behalf of a client, investigators who we did not select and did not control,” he said in the email. “It was not thought through, and that was my mistake. I take responsibility for that.”
Boies first rose to legal stardom as a result of his antitrust crusade against Microsoft on behalf of the Justice Department during the 1990s. A political liberal who is closely associated with the Democratic Party, he represented Al Gore in the legal battles that followed the disputed 2000 presidential election. Boies later teamed up with former adversary Ted Olson, who represented George W. Bush in Bush v. Gore, in 2009 to mount a successful legal challenge to California’s constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriages.
He and his firm have a long relationship with Weinstein. In 2015, the Hollywood producer hired Boies to represent him in contract negotiations with the Weinstein Company, the influential production company Weinstein founded and had led until last month. During those negotiations, the company’s board of directors learned of confidential settlements between Weinstein and three or four accusers. Boies told the Times he had given some legal advice to Weinstein for one of those settlements but did not specify which.
The New Yorker speculated that Boies’s involvement with the Black Cube letter may have been an effort to keep secret the investigators’ activities through attorney-client privilege. But that privilege would only exist between Weinstein and Boies, not between Boies and a third party, Clark said. “There’s another privilege that’s less powerful called work-product privilege, which can apply if information is developed in anticipation of litigation,” she explained. The first paragraph of the contract between Boies Schiller and Black Cube asserts that the work was for “litigation-support services,” Clark said, “but I can’t tell whether they’re really litigation-support services or whether that’s a ruse.”
Stephen Gillers, a New York University law professor who focuses on legal ethics, said it’s not unusual for law firms to hire private investigators, especially for corporations and wealthy clients. But he noted that firms are obligated to ensure those investigators abide by the same ethical boundaries as the lawyers themselves. “Most prominently, a lawyer cannot contact an opposing client whom he knows is represented by counsel,” Gillers pointed out. “You can’t go talk to an opponent. You have to go through his lawyer.”
Boies also defended his role vis-à-vis his firm’s work on behalf of the Times in another case after Monday’s revelations drew a sharp rebuke from the the newspaper. “We learned today that the law firm of Boies Schiller & Flexner secretly worked to stop our reporting on Harvey Weinstein at the same time as the firm’s lawyers were representing us in other matters,” the Times said in a statement on Monday. “We consider this intolerable conduct, a grave betrayal of trust, and a breach of the basic professional standards that all lawyers are required to observe. It is inexcusable and we will be pursuing appropriate remedies.”
In the email to his firm, Boies said Boies Schiller’s agreement with the newspaper anticipated such a possibility. He quoted a clause notifying the Times that the firm might engage with clients outside the libel lawsuit “where the interests of the other persons, and the Firm’s representation of them, may be against the [Times’s interests], including adversity in litigation.”
The Times fired back on Tuesday night. “Such an operation is reprehensible,” the newspaper said in its statement, referring to Weinstein’s private investigators, “and the Boies firm must have known that its existence would have been material to our decision whether to continue using the firm. Whatever legalistic arguments and justifications can be made, we should have been treated better by a firm that we trusted.”
The New York State Bar Association’s rules of professional conduct instruct lawyers and law firms to “[not] engage in any conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation.” Those rules also forbid lawyers from taking adverse action against a current client by negotiating against them or representing an opponent in litigation. But state disciplinary bodies, which are often underfunded, typically only enforce these rules against the worst offenders in the legal community, Gillers said.
Instead, law firms usually try to avoid conflict-of-interest situations because of the potential financial impact. “They worry about losing the client who is the target of the adverse conduct,” he explained. “They worry about losing the client they represented when they shouldn’t be representing that client. They worry about losing their fee.” The fear of lawsuits also acts as a deterrent. “Firms worry about civil liability, malpractice liability, breach-of-fiduciary-duty liability, they worry about disqualification from a matter,” Gillers said. “And they worry about adverse publicity.”


The American crisis is, at its root, a crisis of character. Yes, many other forces and phenomena are in play: the crash of 2008; technologically driven changes to the economy; gerrymandering and sociological divisions between coast and heartland, urban and rural life; cultural clashes over the norms of marriage, drug use, and religious liberty; wars that have not gone well; the splintering of national media into vehement electronically bound communities of self-righteousness; the decay of the political parties as instruments for integrating and reconciling differences; poor national-level leadership and the accidents of personality. But it is character that remains the issue that confronts us in almost every story about national politics that one encounters daily.
Never Trump Almost Succeeds
Of all the elements that constitute character, courage is the essential one. Physical courage is in part innate, in part something that can be inculcated by training and experience. The courage to take responsibility emanates more naturally from ambition. What is rarer and more difficult than either is moral courage.
As historian Allan Nevins put it, “moral courage is allied with the other traits that make up character: honesty, deep seriousness, a firm sense of principle, candor, resolution.” And of moral courage there is an unquestioned deficit today—in the halls of Congress where the Republican Party has yielded what once were its values to an adventurer in the White House; in a White House presided over by a bully and a braggart who infects even upright generals with his breathtaking dishonesty; in universities where administrators and faculty yield to student mobs baying to be protected from uncomfortable ideas and unpopular individuals, and elsewhere.
Which is why, when Senators Jeff Flake of Arizona and Bob Corker of Tennessee openly defy party, president, and constituents, they deserve cheers, choosing as they have to walk away from the most exclusive club in the world, and careers that they craved. Which is why, too, Professor Allison Stanger of Middlebury College deserves celebration for courting a wrung neck to stand up for conservative scholar Charles Murray’s right to be heard there. The dark political farce in Washington and controversies over academic freedom in our universities are linked, because truckling to a capricious president or to aggrieved post-adolescents is cowardice in the face of those who themselves are cowards. The prevalence of both should make Americans worry.
Purists—writers safely ensconced in progressive newspapers, or intellectuals in conservative think tanks—may belittle the resolution these actions required. They may dismiss the Republican politicians like Senator Ben Sasse who oppose the administration in less vehement ways, or shrug off as unimportant the University of Chicago’s ringing defense of academic freedom. But they should not. The mark of civic courage is taking a stand against your own kind, particularly when the payoff for so doing consists of cracking friendships, torrents of abuse, physical threats, and careers broken or abandoned. Until one has experienced those things, one should not deprecate the guts of those who have.
Decent, moderate Americans often ask what is to be done about a crisis that they know transcends individual incidents and personalities. Not the least thing might be to study political courage on their own and with their children. So here is a piece of advice: Obtain a copy of John F. Kennedy’s Profiles in Courage. Kennedy’s 1956 Pulitzer Prize-winning book looks at senatorial courage, as manifested first by John Quincy Adams in breaking with the Federalists and New England interests by siding with Thomas Jefferson, the man who had beaten his father in a presidential election, over the 1807 embargo of commerce with Britain. Kennedy then looks at three clusters of senators, before and after the Civil War, and then in the 20th century.
After Kennedy’s assassination the book was turned into a television series, some episodes of which can be found on YouTube. Additional characters, many of them referenced in Kennedy’s book, were added to his original nine, including Senator Oscar Underwood of Alabama, who destroyed a distinguished political career (including presidential aspirations) in 1924 by taking on the Klu Klux Klan, or Anne Hutchinson, whose Quaker faith ran into the norms of Puritan Massachusetts, or John Adams, who risked obloquy by defending British soldiers being tried for the Boston Massacre.
As Kennedy acknowledged, his subjects’s motives were undoubtedly mixed, and their causes in some cases were questionable. Daniel Webster’s defense of the Compromise of 1850 ran against many of his earlier stands against slavery. Robert Taft’s stand in 1946 against the Nuremberg trial was in part a denunciation of ex post facto justice, but in part too probably connected to his unflinching isolationism. But as a politician, Kennedy understood what it meant when, for example, Edmund G. Ross, a Union veteran, anti-slavery activist, and senator from Kansas, cast the deciding vote against impeachment in the trial of President Andrew Johnson by the Senate in 1868. That was the end of Ross’s career, and he knew it.
Of course, Kennedy himself had shameful moments. He was decidedly unheroic in the matter of Joseph McCarthy, whom he long refrained from denouncing, and was more than willing to benefit from tawdry politics, as Richard Nixon discovered in 1960. His private life was hardly admirable in an unqualified way—his sexual predation, as we would now understand it, looks awful in retrospect. For that matter, it has become clear that most of Profiles in Courage was written by his exceptionally talented speechwriter and counselor Ted Sorenson, to whom Kennedy quietly assigned most of the royalties from the book.
But in a way, that is precisely the point. If hypocrisy is the tribute vice pays to virtue, then imperfect people expressing the right sentiments and occasionally doing the right thing are to be praised. The current sensibility of American politics sneers at lapses and inconsistency, as it does at compromise. The ability to pinpoint discrepancies in speech and deed provided by the vast amounts of data that flood the internet means that we can indulge ourselves in microscopic scrutiny of our statues’s clay feet. The shrillness of social media and the ironic or sneering pose that is the reigning vice of contemporary writers leaves little room for admiring what should be admired in flawed people and institutions. And so, unsurprisingly, some Americans succumb to the nihilism and cynicism that inform Russian propaganda and political warfare against America’s democratic institutions.
The challenge, thus, is to recover an admiration of imperfect civic courage by flawed people, even in occasionally dubious causes. That is best done by returning to our own history, not in a spirit of hero worship, but of respect for the virtues that make free government possible. It is an educational motif out of style, and desperately needed.
In his famous essay on “the moral equivalent of war,” William James, psychologist and pacifist, said that the qualities associated with courage are “the rock upon which states are built—unless, indeed, we wish for dangerous reactions against commonwealths fit only for contempt.” If Americans hope for their politics to recover from its abysmal condition, they need to find it in their own past, and they need to begin with courage—the virtue, Churchill is reported to have said, “that makes all others possible.” Over coming years, it is in civic education about and for political courage that a way out of this crisis lies.


Supporters of President Trump like to say that despite all the tumult, the commander in chief is doing just fine. While the pundits rant and rave about whatever the “unprecedented” action of the day happens to be as he seems to move from one scandal to the next, the president’s allies dismiss the fireworks as nothing more than passing noise.
Even many cynical Democrats conclude in frustration that the president is simply distracting the public while he moves forward with an aggressive deregulatory agenda. After all, they say, when push comes to shove Donald Trump still is president of the United States despite all the controversy. Barring impeachment, he will be at least until 2020. Both his staunch supporters and cynical opponents love to dig into the polling data so that they can point out that his base still loves him, proof that Trump is succeeding.
What Is Really Unprecedented About Trump?
But both of these measures tell us very little about whether his presidency is succeeding. Indeed, these are pretty ridiculous standards by which to measure the progress of any commander in chief. The “he’s still the president” standard would mean that anyone who serves a full term without voluntarily resigning or being impeached is successful. In this way of judging presidents, James Buchanan, Herbert Hoover, and Jimmy Carter would be on the same level as Franklin Roosevelt or Ronald Reagan.
The obsession with “the base” is equally misleading. By definition, the “base” of a president’s support is the part of the electorate that is so passionate about the victor on election day that it takes immense problems and a long time to shake their support. Most presidents, including Richard Nixon, don’t lose their base. In a look at Watergate, Iran-Contra, and the Monica Lewinsky scandals, Julia Azari, Perry Bacon Jr., and Harry Enten found that the party base remained loyal to the president until the very end. Using the “base is still with him” standard is a little like saying that in a bad season the 30-year NFL season-ticket holder who never misses a game, who hosts a massive tailgate party every Sunday, who owns every piece of team paraphernalia sold at the team store, and who spends most of the non-working day checking his or her smartphone to see the latest injury report, still loves his or her team.
There are much better ways through which to evaluate the president that offer us a better understanding of how Trump has performed thus far.
What are some ways in which Trump can claim that the critics have been wrong? In terms of using executive power to pursue his policy agenda, the president has a pretty stellar record. This is one area in office where he has boldly used presidential power to fulfill the promises that he has made on the campaign trail. His number one target has been regulations to curb climate change and high-risk financial investments. Starting from his first days in office, he has issued a series of executive orders that roll back actions taken under President Obama. Scott Pruitt at the EPA has moved aggressively against environmental protections and courted business interests who want more development. While his plan to build a wall along the southern border has stalled in Congress, Trump has relied on executive power to ramp up the detention and deportation of illegal immigrants. When the repeal and replace of ACA floundered, the Department of Health and Human Services has used all of its administrative power to render the Affordable Care Act ineffective. President Trump also ended vital subsidies for health-insurance providers that kept state-insurance markets stable. He declared an end to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program through executive fiat, eliminating the protections that Obama had granted to undocumented immigrants brought to the U.S. as children. To be sure, some of his efforts have been turned back by the courts, such as his early attempts to implement a ban on travelers from several mostly Muslim nations. Overall, however, the president receives high marks from his success at deploying this power.
The economy is also doing well. Though the president has not crafted any policies that diminish the middle- and working-class insecurity that motivated so many of his core supporters in states like Wisconsin, the stock market is booming; unemployment remains low. His critics rightfully point out that much of the rebound stems from the policies that President Obama put into place after the 2008 crash as well as the natural rhythm of the economic cycle. The trends that Trump boasts about already started under Obama. Wages also remain stagnant, the chief source of concern for much of Trump’s base. But politically these distinctions don’t matter. At least in the first year, Trump can tell voters that he is governing over a robust economy.
And the last factor that he can promote before voters, if he wants to, is that we have not yet entered into any major, unnecessary protracted military conflict. At this point in his presidency, there is no Vietnam or Iraq. Obviously, it is very early in his term, and the fact that the nation has not been drawn into a war is extraordinarily fortunate given how the president has worsened tensions through his haphazard and aggressive approach to dealing with the nation’s adversaries.
By most other measures, President Trump is currently receiving failing marks. The most important measure that we have of presidential success is legislation. Great presidents are able to persuade Congress to pass major bills that fundamentally change the policy landscape. This has always been one of the best marks of success. Franklin Roosevelt had the New Deal, Lyndon Johnson had the Great Society, Ronald Reagan had his unnamed mix of tax cuts, military spending, and deregulation.
Right now, President Trump has nothing to show after nine months of united Republican government. Legislating is always hard, but these are the best circumstances that a party can ask for, with little disagreement on most major issues. President Trump has repeatedly fumbled the opportunity to create a record on Capitol Hill. The way that he has handled the legislative process on issues like health care has been a fiasco. Congress might pass the tax cut, and this would be an important achievement, though it remains a problem for the administration that this low-hanging fruit in a moment of unified Republican control would be his only major bill.
Trump assured voters on the campaign trail that he would “drain the swamp” of Washington influence. He has done just the opposite. The conflict-of-interest problem that stems directly out of the intersection between his business empire and the nation’s political interests epitomizes why so many Americans don’t trust the government. Then there are the stories about cabinet officials such as former Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price’s lavish spending on private planes, which led to his resignation. As Brink Lindsey and Steve Teles argued in a trenchant piece for The New York Times, “the Beltway wetlands are now wilder and murkier than ever.”
Trump has failed when it comes to winning broad public support.  The most recent ABC News/Washington Post poll identifies his 59 percent disapproval rating as the worst for any president at the nine month mark since they began tracking it. A stunning 65 precent of people who responded do not think he can be trusted while only 44 percent said he is doing a good job with the economy. In Tuesday’s elections, Republican losses in Virginia and New Jersey indicated that there is a price to pay for Trump’s low public approval.
National approval ratings do matter. They give us some sense of whether the president is able to broaden his political support beyond the base and how large portions of the public are responding to what he does in office. There is no way to look at the numbers we have, unless you believe that they are “fake news,” and avoid the conclusion that Trump is struggling. His numbers have consistently been weak, and as we reach this anniversary, they are at historically low levels. He is looking at the kind of approval ratings that the most embattled, struggling presidents receive toward the end of their terms and at their worst moments. There was no honeymoon period for Trump.
The president has not improved international stability for the U.S. Despite his not starting a war, we have moved closer to serious military conflict as a result of his incendiary words and his systematic efforts to undercut the diplomatic apparatus of government. His Twitter wars with North Korea have left the U.S. in a volatile situation with an adversary eager to flex its nuclear muscle. His efforts to dismantle the nuclear deal with Iran could rekindle the country’s nuclear program and increase the clout of their government in international circles. The president’s refusal to even acknowledge Russian interference with the electoral processes of the U.S. and its allies has resulted in a weak-kneed response that leaves the nation just as vulnerable to foreign hack attacks in 2018 and 2020. The absence of any clear foreign-policy agenda, along with the dearth of first-rate foreign-policy advisers to surround him, leaves the nation moving from one problem to the next without a strong game plan. The possibility of his making a serious miscalculation or mistake is immense. Much more experienced and wise presidents have taken us in disastrous directions.
Another measure of presidential success is strength of his or her own party. This is one place where President Obama often fares poorly given the condition that Democrats found themselves in when he left office. Without question, the Republicans are struggling under Trump. Facing a series of major retirements, several polls indicating the possibility of a wave election, and open rhetorical infighting within the party, the state of the Republican Party is not good. If Republicans can survive politically over the next few years it will be despite President Trump, not because of him. Strong partisanship and the institutional advantages that the GOP enjoys, such as tightly gerrymandered congressional districts, would be the party’s only saving grace. So too might be the tragic incompetence of many Democratic leaders. But the president has made the party weaker and for this his grade suffers. In an increasingly pluralistic and diverse electorate, the party now has to carry the baggage of a president who refused taking a strong stand against white-nationalist extremists and who seems deeply invested in defending General Robert E. Lee and the Confederacy he served.
If we believe that the standing of the presidency as an institution is relevant to how the current holder of the position is doing, then here too is another place where Trump’s grades are at rock bottom. Trump is damaging the standing of the presidency within our polity. He has used the position as a platform to make misleading statements and outright lies. He has used vicious and childish rhetoric, in person and via tweets, that demean the prestige of the office and associate him with some of the worst demagogues we have seen emerge in the American political process. He has continually slammed the legitimacy of other major institutions, from the courts to the media, in ways that will permanently generate distrust for all instruments of government—including the one he now holds. Younger Americans will now expect that this kind of behavior is possible from the most powerful leader of the free world. Decorum, gravitas, and respect for institutions will never again be assumed.
By most measures, President Trump is not doing well. Added to these problems is the fact that, with the intensification of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into the possibility that the Trump campaign aided Russian interference in the 2016 election, the odds for the administration to survive the full term have fallen. We have entered a realm where the odds of impeachment, though low, are very real. And one of the greatest reasons behind Mueller’s investigation was Trump himself—his decision to surround himself with shady figures like Mike Flynn and Paul Manafort, and his rash move to fire FBI Director James Comey so that he could get rid of the pressure from this “Russia thing.” When an investigation of this magnitude unfolds under the supervision of his own Justice Department and a Republican Congress this early in a term, the president is doing something wrong.
A truly loyal supporter of President Trump would acknowledge the trouble that he faces and resist the simplistic defense that everything is going just fine. With their heads buried in the sand, Republicans are courting political disaster with the midterms approaching. Only if President Trump sees and acknowledges the kind of problems he has faced and the kind of trouble that he caused for our political institutions will he be capable of improving. Until then, he will remain on the road of chaos and dysfunction.


What a difference a year makes.
On the eve of the anniversary of Donald Trump’s surprise victory in the 2016 presidential election, Democrats in Virginia, New Jersey, and elsewhere notched a surprisingly robust round of victories Tuesday night in elections that have been widely interpreted as a referendum on the Trump presidency and a potential augur of the 2018 elections.
The results in Virginia, where the prospects of gubernatorial candidate Ralph Northam gave Democrats severe heartburn over the last week, were particularly surprising: Not only did Northam coast to victory over Ed Gillespie, a Republican who had embraced the Trump message if not the president himself, but Democrats won legislative races across the Old Dominion, putting control of the House of Delegates—not generally expected to be up for grabs—within Democratic grasp. Bob Marshall, a particularly outspoken anti-LGBT conservative, was defeated by Danica Roem, who becomes the first openly transgender legislator in state and U.S. history.
Democrats Notch Big Wins in Virginia and New Jersey
But other results also confirmed the trend. In New Jersey, Democrat Phil Murphy won as expected over Lieutenant Governor Kim Guadagno, a Republican who was dragged down by deeply unpopular incumbent Chris Christie. In Charlotte, North Carolina, Democrat Vi Lyles cruised to victory over Republican Kenny Smith. In Maine, a referendum on expanding Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, against the governor’s wishes, was headed for a lopsided victory. In Georgia, Democrats won two special elections for legislative seats, adding to a trend of strong special-election performances. The wave of Democratic victories comes a year late for the party, but late is better than never.
Of course, 2017’s races should always have favored Democrats. The party of a newly elected president tends to do poorly in the next cycle, and Trump’s historically terrible approval rating slanted the board away from Republicans. Virginia has increasingly trended toward Democrats in recent years, voting for Barack Obama twice and Hillary Clinton a year ago, while Christie’s unpopularity handed Murphy an easy path. But Democrats have tended to struggle to get voters to the polls in years without presidential ballots, and in the closing weeks of the campaign, momentum appeared to be shifting toward the GOP, especially in Virginia. Polls showed the gubernatorial race tightening, or perhaps even shifting in Gillespie’s favor. The enthusiasm gap, Democrats’ great weakness in 2016, seemed to be preparing for an encore performance in 2017. The bedwetters were, once again, ascendant.
One reason for the panic was that Democrats did not bring an especially charismatic candidate to the Virginia gubernatorial race, the night’s bellwether race. Northam looked strong on paper—he is a doctor, veteran, and sitting lieutenant governor—but was widely acknowledged to be a less-than-inspiring campaigner. Northam, who had beaten more progressive rival Tom Perriello in the Democratic primary, voted for George W. Bush for president (twice) and, as the polls tightened, tacked right, even voicing support for a ban on sanctuary cities. In a time when Democrats often seem to find creative ways to trip over their own feet, Northam’s late, desperate lunge to the right looked like the latest installment in the trend. A racially charged pro-Northam ad from an independent group, briefly used in the last days of the race, was quickly pulled, delivering what seemed to be both an indicator of Democratic panic and a potential boost to Republicans.
On the other side of the aisle, meanwhile, Ed Gillespie seemed to be running a surprisingly smart race. Gillespie, who lost an unexpectedly narrow race to Democratic Senator Mark Warner in 2014, had very narrowly won the GOP primary, beating Corey Stewart, a candidate in the Trump image who campaigned on anti-immigration and pro-Confederate-heritage sentiments and won alt-right support. An establishment Republican who made his name as RNC chair, adviser to George W. Bush, and a successful Washington lobbyist, Gillespie seemed perhaps less suited to taking up the Trump mantle than any other GOP candidate in the country.
Yet Gillespie took to the task with gusto, trying to cut a path that appealed to Trump-friendly voters while keeping the president himself at arm’s length, the better to appeal to moderate Republicans in Northern Virginia’s increasingly pivotal Washington suburbs and exurbs. In the aftermath of violent white-supremacist demonstrations in Charlottesville in August, Gillespie, reared in New Jersey, adopted the defense of Confederate monuments and a hardline on immigration as central campaign planks. Gillespie opted not to have Trump campaign for him in person—making him the first president since Watergate-era Richard Nixon not to stump in the Virginia governor’s race—but Vice President Pence did visit, and Trump boosted Gillespie via Twitter.
If Gillespie’s fusion succeeded, Republicans figured, it would offer a powerful model of how Trumpist politics could meld with the establishment GOP to win even in Democrat-leaning purple states. Steve Bannon, the former Trump campaign CEO and White House chief strategist, boasted in the election’s final days that Gillespie’s strategy showed the way forward for a GOP in the post-2016 era.
“He’s closed an enthusiasm gap by rallying around the Trump agenda,” Bannon told The New York Times. “And I think the big lesson for Tuesday is that, in Gillespie’s case, Trumpism without Trump can show the way forward. If that’s the case, Democrats better be very, very worried.”
But what if that wasn’t the case? What lesson should Democrats take, and what should Republicans conclude? As the results streamed in and favored Northam, President Trump, weighing in from Asia, tweeted, “Ed Gillespie worked hard but did not embrace me or what I stand for.” The problem for Republicans is that while Gillespie did not embrace the president personally, he went out of his way, and broke with his longstanding political profile, to embrace what Trump stood for, and lost anyway. But Gillespie might have fared even worse had he embraced Trump the man, eroding his support among Trump-skeptical traditional Republicans, especially in Northern Virginia. Trumpism proved to be an unexpectedly powerful current in the 2016 race, and it triumphed in this year’s Alabama GOP primary for U.S. Senate, where a Trumpist candidate won—defeating a Trump-endorsed candidate. But so far, its ability to win more broadly, especially in swing states like Virginia, remains unproven.
There’s no victory or set of victories that could heal the damage done to the Democratic Party and progressive causes by Trump’s election. But the range of victories, from Virginia to New Jersey and elsewhere, offer evidence that the disorder of Trump’s presidency and his rotten approval rating actually can translate into Democratic wins. The elections come the same week that a Washington Post-ABC News poll found Democrats hold the widest edge on the generic congressional ballot in a more than decade. None of this can directly foretell the results of the 2018 election, but it gives despondent Democrats a rare glimmer of hope—and will create new worries for Republicans of the pro- and anti-Trump varieties alike.


Voters head to the polls to cast their ballots in gubernatorial races in Virginia and New Jersey. Polls close at 7 p.m. ET in Virginia and 8 p.m. ET in New Jersey. During his testimony before the House Intelligence Committee on November 2, Carter Page, a former Trump aide, said he told campaign officials about his trip to Russia over the summer, contradicting his earlier statements. In a news conference with South Korean President Moon Jae-in, President Trump stressed the importance of diplomacy with North Korea, adding that “ultimately, it will all work out.” Syria signed the Paris climate agreement, making the United States the only country in the world not to agree to the deal.
International Man of Mystery: The 243-page transcript of Carter Page’s testimony before the House Intelligence Committee reveals his connections with Russia, but fails to make the investigation any clearer. (David A. Graham)
Where the Passion Is: One month after the worst mass shooting in modern American history, Congress hasn’t passed any gun-control legislation. Why? (Russell Berman)
Defending Trump: Four supporters of Donald Trump explain why they still back the president, despite his inconsistencies on Russia. (Conor Friedersdorf)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Not Just Virginia: Victories in Tuesday’s elections in New Jersey, Washington, and Maine could have huge implications for Democrats. Here’s why. (Matthew Yglesias, Vox)
‘She Just Started Praying’: Seventy-three-year-old Farida Brown was shot four times in the attack at the First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, Texas. Miraculously, she survived. (Samantha Schmidt, The Washington Post)
‘Army of Spies’: Harvey Weinstein reportedly hired a team of private investigators to gather information on the women making sexual-harassment allegations against him—and the journalists trying to bring those allegations to light. (Ronan Farrow, The New Yorker)
Pics in the Rose Garden: In April, Omarosa Manigault, the director of communications for the Office of the Public Liaison, took some officials by surprise by bringing her entire wedding party to the White House for a photo shoot. The incident didn’t help the office’s dysfunctional reputation. (Josh Dawsey, Politico)
Why We Need Guns: In rural parts of America, guns are necessary for self-protection, argues Rich Lowry. Stricter gun-control legislation would have prevented bystanders like Stephen Willeford and Johnnie Langendorff from confronting the Texas shooter. (National Review)
Why Here?: These charts show the one variable that can explain the high rate of mass shootings in the United States. (Max Fisher and Josh Keller, The New York Times)
In this Esquire story, political commentators, insiders, and journalists shared their memories from November 8, 2016. Many of them, including members of Donald Trump’s own circle, expected Hillary Clinton to win the presidential election.
Where were you during the 2016 election? What are your memories from that day?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey) and Lena Felton (@lenakfelton)


Americans who know nothing else about firearms are all too familiar with the name AR-15. It’s the semi-automatic weapon that murderers have used in many of the most notorious and highest-casualty gun killings of recent years: Aurora, Colorado. Newtown, Connecticut. Orlando, Florida. San Bernardino, California.  Now, with modified versions, in Las Vegas, Nevada, and Sutherland Springs, Texas.
Why Congress Has Done Nothing on Guns
What is this gun? Why is it the weapon that people who want to kill a lot of other people, in a hurry, mainly choose? Tim Dickinson offered a useful history of the AR-15’s emergence as the main implement of mass murder last year in Rolling Stone (“All-American Killer: How the AR-15 Became Mass Shooters’ Weapon of Choice”), and Meghan O’Dea in Fortune and Aaron Smith for CNN also had valuable reports.
But there’s another angle of the AR-15 saga that has slightly slipped from view. It is why this particular weapon is so unusually effective in killing things—even when compared with other firearms.
As it happens, I did an Atlantic article on exactly this subject, back in a very different era of American politics. In 1981, I published a book called National Defense, which was popular at the time and was excerpted in three installments in the magazine. One of the installments was called “The M-16: A Bureaucratic Horror Story,” and it included the origin story of the AR-15. That article was not previously available online, but my colleague Annika Neklason has just digitized it from the archives, and it’s now available.
* * *
The AR-15 was newsworthy in those days mainly as the original civilian version of what became the U.S. military’s standard M-16 combat rifle. The problem with the M-16, from the perspective of many of the Americans who had been using it during the 1960s and 1970s in Vietnam, is that it too often failed at the fundamental task of combat weaponry: killing troops on the other side.
The M-16 jammed. It was touchy if it got wet or dirty—which, in jungle warfare, weapons generally did. Veterans’ stories about the M-16, which became newspaper exposés, which became congressional hearings, concerned the battles in which an American soldier or Marine was found shot to death by an enemy AK-47, a jammed M-16 clutched in the American’s hands.
The point of my story was to explain how the Army’s procurement bureaucracy had systematically, and knowingly if not intentionally, converted the early-model AR-15 into the fully “militarized” but vastly less reliable M-16. Those were the comparisons that mattered most in the aftermath of Vietnam: the M-16 versus its AR-15 predecessor, and the M-16 against the adversary’s practically indestructible AK-47.
Along the way, I examined the other side of the comparison: why the AR-15 was such a revolution in killing power. That’s the part of the story that is most relevant now.
* * *
The AR-15, created by the celebrated armaments designer Eugene Stoner, had many advantages, but a crucial one was that it used smaller, lighter bullets than some predecessors, which traveled at higher speed. My story said:
Nearly a century before American troops were ordered into Vietnam, weapons designers had made a discovery in the science of “wound ballistics.” The discovery was that a small, fast-traveling bullet often did a great deal more damage than a larger round when fired into human or (for the experiments) animal flesh. A large artillery round might pass straight through a human body, but a small bullet could act like a gouge. During the early stages of the congressional hearing, [Representative Richard] Ichord asked Eugene Stoner, the designer of the original version of the M-16, to explain the apparent paradox of a small bullet’s destructive power. The answer emerged in the following grisly exchange.
“ICHORD: One army boy told me that he had shot a Vietcong near the eye with an M-14 [which uses a substantially heavier bullet] and the bullet did not make too large a hole on exit, but he shot a Vietcong under similar circumstances in the same place with an M-16 and his whole head was reduced to pulp. This would not appear to make sense. You have greater velocity but the bullet is lighter.”
“STONER: There is the advantage that a small or light bullet has over a heavy one when it comes to wound ballistics. … What it amounts to is the fact that bullets are stabilized to fly through the air, and not through water, or a body, which is approximately the same density as the water. And they are stable as long as they are in the air. When they hit something, they immediately go unstable. … If you are talking about .30-caliber [like a bullet used in the Army’s previous M-14], this might remain stable through a human body. … While a little bullet, being it has a low mass, it senses an instability situation faster and reacts much faster. … this is what makes a little bullet pay off so much in wound ballistics.”
A little bullet pays off so much in wound ballistics. That is what people who choose these weapons know.
I remember one other thing about that story. Everyone I interviewed about these weapons at the time—the AR-15, its bastard offspring M-16, the opposing AK-47—assumed as a first premise that they were talking about battlefield equipment. None of them seemed to imagine such killing power in civilian hands.


Virginians aren’t enjoying a one-year pause in campaign ads like most other Americans in 2017. The commonwealth’s airwaves are saturated by TV spots from Ralph Northam, the state’s Democratic lieutenant governor, and Ed Gillespie, a former Republican National Committee chairman. Whichever candidate takes the governor’s mansion will also hand their party a morale boost ahead of next year’s midterms.
Into this high-stakes contest Gillespie has dropped one of the most unusual campaign ads of the year, which melds tough-on-crime fear-mongering—long a staple of political persuasion—with establishment-Republican nods to compassionate criminal-justice reform. In doing so, the spot highlights reform’s unpredictable future in the age of Donald Trump and Jeff Sessions.

The ad takes aim at current Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe’s program restoring convicted felons’ right to vote. Virginia is one of four states where a person loses the franchise entirely after they are convicted of a felony-level offense. McAuliffe first tried to use his pardon power to restore the rights of 200,000 Virginians in one blow. Republican lawmakers successfully challenged the en masse order in court, so the governor began signing the orders individually, totaling more than 168,000 to date. McAuliffe’s move stands out as perhaps the boldest concrete step to reverse mass incarceration’s effects on individuals’ agency that the country has seen so far.
At the same time, the policy’s breadth left it open to narrow attacks like the one made by Gillespie. Here’s the first half of the ad’s narration:
Last year, Terry McAuliffe and Ralph Northam instituted the automatic restoration of rights for violent felons and sex offenders, making it easier for them to obtain firearms and allowing them to serve on juries. One of these felons, John Bowen, had his rights restored two months after being found with one of the largest child-pornography collections in Virginia’s history. Forty-three prosecutors—Republicans, Democrats, and Independents—opposed Ralph Northam’s reckless policy. Now, Virginia law enforcement has endorsed Ed Gillespie for governor.
This part of the ad somewhat obscures Bowen’s timeline: The Times-Dispatch says McAuliffe restored the rights he lost from a previous conviction, and that Bowen had only been arrested and not yet convicted of the new offenses when the restoration happened. But the overall aesthetic evokes the tough-on-crime ads that dominated campaigning in the 1980s and 1990s: If you vote for my opponent, your family will be less safe.
In that sense, Gillespie’s new ad isn’t surprising, echoing its predecessors from all levels of American elections, with the infamous Willie Horton ad standing out in that dismal field. While the antagonist in this spot is white—unlike Horton, a black man George H.W. Bush’s campaign spotlighted in 1988—Gillespie’s campaign hasn’t shied away from appeals to racial animus, especially in the context of public safety. He maintained his support for Confederate statues after the white-nationalist violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, in August. And he’s run multiple ads portraying Northam as too soft on MS-13, a Latin American gang and a political specter frequently invoked by the Trump administration.
But what’s truly unusual about the ad is how the message changes in its second half. From the transcript:
Virginians who have paid their debt to society and are living an honest life should have their rights restored. But Ralph Northam’s policy of automatic restoration of rights for unrepentant, unreformed, violent criminals is wrong. As governor, I’ll be both compassionate and protecting of Virginia families. I’m Ed Gillespie, candidate for governor, and I sponsored this ad.
The tonal shift is accompanied by an even more jarring visual one, as the ad cuts away from dark juxtapositions of Northam and an alleged child-pornography collector to a smiling, well-lit Gillespie at home. This is not a traditional closing pitch for tough-on-crime ads, to say the least, with Gillespie modifying the tried-and-true formula and conveying actual nuance in his policy prescription.
First, he endorses the general aim of McAuliffe’s policy, even if he says he wouldn’t apply it as universally as the current governor does. Second, he emphasizes that his interest in the issue goes beyond punishing criminals. Gillespie isn’t promising to drop the hammer; he wants to be “compassionate and protecting of Virginia families.”
It’s a cliché that politicians campaign in poetry and govern in prose. But Gillespie appears to be campaigning in Trumpism while aiming to govern in criminal-justice reform. His website has a lengthy page devoted to the subject with testimonials to his “thoughtful and detailed approach” from state lawmakers and law-enforcement officials. Some positions are relatively modest, like reduced enforcement for marijuana laws and a toe-dip into legalizing medical marijuana. Others are more arcane but more substantive, like raising the felony larceny threshold from $200 to $500 and reducing driver’s-license suspensions. With some notable exceptions, many of his criminal-justice proposals match those on Northam’s website.
If he wins and enacts this agenda, Gillespie could be a signal to congressional Republicans north of the Potomac, where reform is slowly returning to the federal agenda after its election-year pause. Conservative proponents say they’re optimistic that Congress will take up the matter next year after dispatching with tax reform (though that’s easier said than done). A bipartisan group of legislators even proposed a new bill last month that aims to reduce mandatory sentences for drug crimes and reform harsher aspects of the current system.
At the same time, would-be reformers could wrestle with the potential opposition of President Trump, who rose to power by anointing himself as a “law and order” candidate, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a criminal-justice hardliner who helped torpedo the reform bill last year. A Gillespie victory could prove that Trump’s presidency isn’t necessarily fatal to modest efforts to rein in mass incarceration. Indeed, the candidate appears to be betting it’ll take a little Trumpism to get there.


Updated on October 24 at 12:00 p.m. ET
If President Trump’s relationship with his former ally Senator Bob Corker was frayed before, it now appears to be ruptured completely.
The two Republicans reignited their feud on Tuesday after the president did not take kindly to Corker’s criticism of his leadership and his suggestion that Trump “stay out” of congressional negotiations over a tax bill.
In a trio of television interviews, the increasingly outspoken Tennessee senator repeated his dim assessment of Trump’s performance and went further than he—or any elected Republican—has gone in questioning the president’s fitness for office. Calling Trump “an utterly untruthful president,” Corker said he was not a role model for the nation’s children and declared unequivocally that he would not support him for reelection in 2020. “He’s obviously not going to rise to the occasion as president,” Corker said on CNN. He accused Trump of “constant non-truth telling” and said he would be remembered for “the debasing of our nation.”
Asked by reporters later if he thought the president should be removed from office, Corker replied: “I’m not going to speak to that. The ballot box is where that happens.”
The latest rhetorical volleys had begun earlier in the morning when Corker appeared on the CBS and NBC morning shows. As he did several weeks ago, Corker accused Trump of undermining diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis with North Korea, and he said the president’s meddling was detrimental to the GOP’s goal of overhauling the tax code. On The Today Show, Corker belittled Trump’s upcoming visit to the Senate Republican weekly lunch as “more of a photo-op.”
As Corker lit into him, the avid TV viewer in the White House was apparently watching, and fired back on Twitter.
Bob Corker, who helped President O give us the bad Iran Deal & couldn't get elected dog catcher in Tennessee, is now fighting Tax Cuts....
...Corker dropped out of the race in Tennesse when I refused to endorse him, and now is only negative on anything Trump. Look at his record!
Isn't it sad that lightweight Senator Bob Corker, who couldn't get re-elected in the Great State of Tennessee, will now fight Tax Cuts plus!
In fact, Corker opposed the Iran nuclear deal. As for the retiring senator’s electoral prospects in Tennessee, he again accused the president of lying about their conversations regarding Corker’s decision not to seek reelection next year. And in a tweet of his own, Corker reprised his famous comparison of the Trump White House to “an adult day-care center.”
Same untruths from an utterly untruthful president. #AlertTheDaycareStaff
By mid-morning, Trump had called “liddle Bob Corker” an “incompetent” leader of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and blamed him for the country’s lackluster standing in the world.
The Trump-Corker fight has ramifications far beyond the two men. As chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Corker could cast the president’s global policies in a harsh light and block a congressional review of the Iran agreement that Trump has sought. And as the president suggested, Corker is a potentially crucial vote in the Senate on tax reform, and they appear to have a fundamental difference over whether a reduction in rates for businesses and individuals should be paid for with tax increases elsewhere.
Unlike the first time Trump and Corker feuded, the Senate is in session, and Corker’s GOP colleagues will face a tougher time evading questions about whether they agreed with one man or the other. That will begin right away on Tuesday, when the president joins Senate Republicans for a rare joint lunch in the Capitol—a meal that just got a lot more awkward, to say the least.


The late Justice Antonin Scalia once compared a constitutional doctrine he disliked to “some ghoul in a late night horror movie that repeatedly sits up in its grave and shuffles abroad, after being repeatedly killed and buried.” Donald Trump’s travel ban—and the court challenges to it—also refuse to die.
The first travel ban was an Executive Order (known as “EO-1”) issued on January 27, 2017. It died ignominiously—enjoined by the Ninth Circuit and withdrawn by the White House. Its successor, a second Executive Order (“EO-2”) issued on March 6, was enjoined by both the Fourth and Ninth Circuits. Those two injunctions were narrowed slightly by the Supreme Court—but EO-2 will soon expire completely without receiving full Supreme Court review.
The Rebirth of America's Pro-Natalist Movement
The ban, however, sat up in its coffin again on September 24, 2017, reborn as a proclamation. Last week courts in Hawaii and Maryland both blocked the new version from going into effect.
The Hawaii order—a temporary restraining order issued by District Judge Derrick Watson— may prove evanescent, for complex appellate procedure reasons, the Ninth Circuit case it relies on will probably soon be vacated and the Hawaii case will have to start over. The district court order in the Maryland case, International Refugee Assistance Project v. Trump, may be around a bit longer. Indeed, it is likely the template for Supreme Court review of ban 3.0, so it is worth spending a little time to understand it.
The judge who wrote it, Theodore Chuang, is less than 50 years old, but has an astonishing resume. Born in the U.S. to immigrant parents, he has been a Justice Department lawyer, a federal prosecutor, a Capitol Hill staffer, a big-firm lawyer—and, most significantly, deputy general counsel of the Department of Homeland Security. He is, shall we say, well-schooled in immigration and national-security law.
There are two avenues of attack on the proclamation. One argues that it is illegal under immigration statutes; the other claims it violates the Constitution. The Ninth Circuit read a statute empowering the president as actually limiting him. That section 8 § 1182(f), says that “[w]henever the President finds that the entry of ... any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interests of the United States,” he can suspend admission of that class for as long as he “shall deem necessary.” The Ninth Circuit held that a president can’t use 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) unless he makes formal “findings” that would satisfy a court. Chuang rejects that argument: “Plaintiffs have not identified, nor has the Court found, any clear limit on the President’s authority under 1182(f) that this proclamation has crossed.”
However, he writes, EO-2 does violate a separate statute regarding admissions of immigrants. That provision, 8 U.S.C. 1152(a), provides that “no person shall ... be discriminated against in the issuance of an immigrant visa because of ... nationality.” Chuang reasoned that the anti-discrimination provision, adopted well after the presidential-exclusion one, should be read as limiting the president’s power over immigrant visas. He can suspend entry of aliens for many reasons, thus, but not on the basis of nationality.
That statutory ruling covers only the admission of immigrants, while the proclamation bars many kinds of visitors. To rule on the rest of the challenge, Chuang had to decide the heart of the case—whether the travel ban, as applied to non-immigrant visas, violates the Constitution’s ban on “an establishment of religion.”
Chuang concluded it does, by sending a message to American Muslims that they and their religion are not full members of the national community. That’s a standard establishment clause test. Chuang based his decision on a 2005 case, McCreary County v. American Civil Liberties Union of Kentucky. In that case, the Supreme Court, 5-4, struck down a Ten Commandments display in a Kentucky courthouse. The county government had altered its display twice after court setbacks, seeking a “secular” context that would be approved. Defending the third try, they argued to the high court that judges should ignore the history of the first two. Justice David Souter, writing for the court, dispatched that claim: “the world is not made brand new every morning, and the Counties are simply asking us to ignore perfectly probative evidence” of the display’s religious purpose.
“Perfectly probative evidence” of improper purpose is hardly lacking in the President’s remarks and tweets—including many recent ones made after the earlier bans were announced.  Among others, Chuang noted that in August 2017—eight months after taking the oath of office and five months after EO-2—“Trump tweeted a statement that ... shooting Muslims with bullets dipped in pig’s blood should be used to deter future terrorism.” Meanwhile, he wrote, “there is no record of public statements showing any change in the President’s intentions relating to a Muslim ban.”
Justice Souter’s McCreary opinion tells courts to “take account of genuine changes in constitutionally significant conditions.” But Chuang found that the purported changes in the proclamation from EO-1 and EO-2 are not “genuinely persuasive.”
After EO-2 was blocked, the administration undertook a security review, supposedly to determine what countries provided adequate supervision of their nationals who were seeking entry into the U.S. But, Chuang concluded, that review was phony. Trump had already announced what it would find, he noted. And the review concluded that what was needed was a ban almost identical to the one in EO-2. Of course, some non-Muslim countries—North Korea and Venezuela—were added, and the new order makes country-by-country exceptions. But the non-Muslim bans have “little practical consequence,” and the country-by-country exceptions don’t make any sense: the review found that Venezuela does not adequately share information with U.S. authorities—but most of its nationals can still enter; Somalia, according to the review, does share adequate information—but its nationals are entirely barred as immigrants, and sharply limited as visitors.
These flaws, Chuang reasoned, call into question whether “national security” was the reason for the ban at all. Chuang wrote that he was not examining whether “national security” would justify a ban. He said he noted the skimpy justification only to “assess whether the Proclamation persuasively establishes that the primary purpose of the travel ban is no longer religious animus.”
Mulling all the circumstantial evidence, Chuang answered that question by finding what Henry David Thoreau once called a trout in the milk:
Based on the facts that the Proclamation’s ban generally resembles President Trump’s earlier description of the Muslim ban, EO-2 dictated the Proclamation’s outcome of a recommended list of nations to be subjected to a travel ban, the criteria used to select countries were highly correlated with those used to select the countries for EO-2, the terms of the Proclamation’s travel ban skew against Muslim nations as compared to the objective measures applied in the DHS Review, and the proposed response has not been adequately explained as a necessary one to the identified problem, the Court cannot conclude that the Proclamation sufficiently offers a “purposeful” curative action that establishes that the taint of EO-2 no longer underlies the travel ban.
Thus, as it heads to the Fourth Circuit, Chuang’s opinion starkly presents the issue: does the establishment clause apply to decisions to admit or exclude aliens? The caselaw on that is confusing. If the clause does apply, when can a court consider what the president has said—and what the government has previously done—to find a violation of the clause in a neutral-sounding order?
Supreme Court tea leaves are notoriously hard to read; but there is a palpable yearning on the part of some of the justices to defer to anything immigration and national-security figures say. Pig’s blood and “Islam hates us” may strain justices’ will to believe, but not necessarily break it.
Whatever the outcome on appeal, however, the opponents of the ban have convinced at least one hard-headed judge that they have a case. His opinion may not survive; but it will not be easy to refute.


In her first public comments since speaking with President Trump, Myeshia Johnson, the widow of Sergeant La David Johnson, offered her account of the condolence call. Trump contradicted her remarks on Twitter, saying the conversation was “very respectful.” Trump promised that there will be “no change” to the 401(k) retirement program, as Republicans mull how to finance new tax cuts. The White House said Trump will not visit the border between North and South Korea, as past presidents have done, during his visit to Asia next month. The House is expected to vote Thursday to pass the Senate’s budget resolution.
Sifting Through the Wreckage: After the 2016 presidential election, researchers traveled the country to gauge how Americans were feeling. But what focus groups told them wasn’t necessarily what they wanted to hear. (Molly Ball)
‘This Place Is So Dysfunctional’: Russell Berman spoke with former Representative Candice Miller, who left Congress to drain an actual swamp in Macomb County, Michigan.
Just a Preview: The GOP establishment has a lot to learn from Alabama’s special Senate primary. One lesson? “Republicans are in a feisty and confrontational mood,” says one strategist, “and they want to see their leaders show some energy and fight.” (Michelle Cottle)
Welcome to The Masthead: Want to support a sustainable future for journalism, and get to know The Atlantic a little better in the process? Join The Masthead, our new membership program, and you’ll get an exclusive newsletter with original articles, as well as the opportunity to participate in conference calls with leading thinkers and join a private discussion group. Recently, Masthead members heard from Atlantic writers, James Fallows and Julia Ioffe. This week, members got an update on Puerto Rico and will debate how to protect the right to self-defense in gun regulations. Sign up now.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

‘It Used to Be So Rare’: There’s been a dramatic increase in the number of Central American fathers crossing the U.S. border with their children, which activists say could be the consequence of the Trump administration’s immigration crackdown. (John Stanton, BuzzFeed)
‘Two BS Artists’: South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham, who was once one of President Trump’s biggest critics, has become his “chief congressional translator.” (Burgess Everett and Josh Dawsey, Politico)
Respecting Gold Star Families: Although President Trump likely didn’t intend to hurt the family of a fallen soldier in his condolence call, he should have responded to their complaints with humility and empathy, argues David French. (National Review)
Christie’s Next Fight: New Jersey Governor Chris Christie is ending his term as the least popular governor in the state’s history, providing him time to pursue his greatest priority. (Jason Zengerle, GQ)
Tell Me What You Want: Democrats are preparing to use the prospect of a government shutdown as leverage to undertake their long list of priorities. (Tara Golshan, Vox)
‘Faces of an Epidemic’: Check out this photo gallery, documenting life in Montgomery County, Ohio, where opioid addiction has become a massive problem. (Philip Montgomery and Margaret Talbot, The New Yorker)
In her story on Monday, The Atlantic’s Molly Ball reports that some researchers attempting to understand how Americans were feeling after the 2016 presidential election didn’t seem to be listening to their focus groups: “I heard all the optimism they did, but I also heard its opposite: that one side was right and that the other was the enemy; that other Americans, not just the government, were to blame for the country’s problems.”
So this week, we want to know: Do you think it’s important to move past political partisanship? Why or why not?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


“You know, when I was a kid growing up, a lot of things were sacred in our country,” White House Chief of Staff John Kelly said Thursday. Among those were Gold Star families: “I just thought—the selfless devotion that brings a man or woman to die on the battlefield, I just thought that that might be sacred.”
But Kelly acknowledged that might no longer be true: “Gold Star families, I think that left in the convention over the summer.”
Then on Monday morning, Kelly’s boss decided to prolong a feud with the widow of a fallen American soldier:
I had a very respectful conversation with the widow of Sgt. La David Johnson, and spoke his name from beginning, without hesitation!
Trump’s peculiarly self-contradictory tweet—I was totally respectful, he said as he called the widow a liar—came in response to a brief interview Myeshia Johnson gave to Good Morning America Monday morning. Trump called Johnson Tuesday night, after being questioned about his reticence on the deaths of four Special Forces soldiers in Niger in early October, and boasting that he offered better condolences than his predecessors. (As my colleagues Lena Felton and Taylor Hosking report, the White House then mounted a hasty effort to make Trump’s statements true.)
The call didn’t go well. According to Representative Frederica Wilson, a Democrat, Trump said that Sergeant Johnson knew what he was signing up for when enlisting in the Army; she also said Trump didn’t use Johnson’s name, seeming to forget it, and had left the Johnson family crying. La David Johnson’s mother Cowanda Jones-Johnson confirmed the story, but Myeshia Johnson had not spoken to the press. It was Wilson’s public comments that aroused Kelly’s fury, including an attack on the congresswoman that turned out to be factually wrong.
Kelly, in addition to attacking Wilson, offered a plausible account of what had happened: Kelly, a retired four-star general, told Trump about how General Joe Dunford, now the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, had consoled Kelly after his son Robert Kelly was killed in Afghanistan. Dunford told Kelly that his son had died doing what he wanted to do, alongside his friends. Trump seems to have delivered that message with less finesse (never mind that such a conversation between two generals is different than a conversation between a grieving widow and a draft-avoiding president), but offering condolences is hard. Kelly presented a version that made Trump seem well-intentioned if clumsy.
On Good Morning America, Myeshia Johnson gave George Stephanopoulos her account of the call:
The president said that he knew what he signed up for, but it hurts anyway. And it made me cry ’cause I was very angry at the tone of his voice and how he said he couldn’t remember my husband’s name. The only way he remembered my husband's name is because he told me he had my husband’s report in front of him and that’s when he actually said La David. I heard him stumbling on trying to remember my husband’s name and that’s what hurt me the most, because if my husband is out here fighting for our country and he risked his life for our country why can’t you remember his name. And that’s what made me upset and cry even more because my husband was an awesome soldier.

Shortly after that interview, Trump tweeted his claim that she was not telling the truth.
This is not, as John Kelly implied with his remarks about the convention, the first time that Trump has feuded with a Gold Star family. After a dramatic appearance by Khizr and Ghazala Khan, whose son Army Captain Humayun Khan was killed in Iraq in 2004, at the Democratic National Convention, Trump traded blows with the Khans for days. The sight of a presidential candidate going after a Gold Star family shocked the nation, and many analysts believed it would hurt Trump’s campaign.
To see President Trump, now the commander in chief, wage a rhetorical fight with a Gold Star widow today falls into the ever-growing category of Trump actions that are shocking but not surprising. (Notably, both cases involve soldiers and families of color.) This is another case of Trump refusing to let anything go. With Kelly’s justification in hand, the president could have apologized for any misunderstanding, insisted he meant well, and moved on. Time and again—from his falling out with FBI Director James Comey to his claims that Barack Obama “wiretapped” him to his exaggerated claims about condolences—Trump’s insistence on never letting go has gotten him into trouble. Because he refuses to back down, making the debate about his bruised ego, he has forfeited the benefit of the doubt about his intentions in the call with the Johnson family.
Did Myeshia Johnson make herself a legitimate target for Trump’s political attacks when she granted the interview to Good Morning America? There will be Trump defenders who argue she did, much as Khizr Khan did by appearing at the DNC. Yet such a pat statement ignores complications. For one thing, Johnson had watched as the president, his chief of staff, and press secretary fiercely attacked Frederica Wilson, a family friend, for dishonesty; it’s understandable that Myeshia Johnson wanted to set the record straight. “Whatever Ms. Wilson said was not fabricated. What she said was 100 percent correct,” she told Stephanopoulos.
Besides, Johnson had already been thrust into the political spotlight through no choice of her own besides marrying a brave man. Moreover, she is a pregnant mother who has just lost her husband in service of his country, and has been told she cannot even see his body. Grieving family members are often angry, and common politeness holds that they be granted some leeway to express that anger, even when that involves contradicting the president publicly (and, yes, perhaps even when they appear at the opposing party’s convention). That’s especially true when her husband died serving as a United States soldier, the sacred act that John Kelly invoked last week.
Trump evidently has little interest in the norm Kelly sought to defend, which is little surprise, since he is the one who turned a question about a botched military operation into a referendum on consoling Gold Star families. If the administration’s accusations of politicization were somewhat hypocritical before, the president’s tweet has shown how utterly empty they are.


It was the hippies who drove Nancy Hale over the edge. She had spent three days listening respectfully to the real people of Middle America, and finally she couldn’t take it any longer.
To hear more feature stories, see our full list or get the Audm iPhone app.
She turned off the tape recorder and took several deep breaths, leaning back in the passenger seat of the rented GMC Yukon. The sun had just come out from behind a mass of clouds, casting a gleam on the rain-soaked parking lot in rural Wisconsin.
Hale, who is 65 and lives in San Francisco, is a career activist who got her start protesting nuclear plants and nuclear testing in the 1970s. In 2005, she was one of the founders of Third Way, a center-left think tank, and it was in that capacity that she and four colleagues had journeyed from both coasts to the town of Viroqua, Wisconsin, as part of a post-election listening tour. They had come on a well-meaning mission: to better understand their fellow Americans, whose political behavior in the last election had left them confused and distressed.
The trip was predicated on the optimistic notion that if Americans would only listen to each other, they would find more that united than divided them. This notion—the idea that, beyond our polarized politics, lies a middle, or third, path on which most can come together in agreement—is Third Way’s raison d’etre. It is premised on the idea that partisanship is bad, consensus is good, and that most Americans would like to meet in the middle.
But these are not uncontested assumptions. And, three days into their safari in flyover country, the researchers were hearing some things that disturbed them greatly—sentiments that threatened their beliefs to the very core.
The last focus group, a bunch of back-to-the-land organic farmers and artisanal small-businesspeople, was over, and the researchers had retreated to their car to debrief. There was a long pause after Hale turned off the tape recorder on which they were recording their impressions.
“I had a very hard time with that meeting,” she finally said. “The longer the meeting went on, the more it started to feel to me like just another community that had isolated itself, and it was right and everybody else wasn’t, you know?” The hippies should have been her kind of people, but the attitudes they’d expressed had offended her sense of the way America ought to be. She had come seeking mutual understanding, only to find that some people were not the least bit interested in meeting in the middle. And now she was at a crossroads: Would she have to revise her whole worldview to account for this troubling reality?
Third Way’s researchers are far from the only Americans inspired to undertake anthropological journeys in the past year. Nearly a year after Donald Trump’s election shocked the prognosticators, ivory-tower types are still sifting through the wreckage. Group after group of befuddled elites has crisscrossed America to poke and prod and try to figure out what they missed—“Margaret Meads among the Samoans,” one prominent strategist remarked to me.  
HuffPo embarked on a 23-city bus tour to get to know places like Fort Wayne, Indiana, and Odessa, Texas. Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg undertook a series of carefully choreographed interactions with factory workers and people on tractors. The liberal pollster Stan Greenberg appeared at the National Press Club to discuss his findings from a series of focus groups with “Obama-Trump” voters in Macomb County, Michigan. A new group of Democratic elected officials hosted a “Winning Back the Heartland” strategy conference in Des Moines this month. The title of yet another research project, a bipartisan study underwritten by the eBay founder Pierre Omidyar, encapsulates the sentiment: “Stranger in My Own Country.”
Third Way, for its part, announced in January it would spend $20 million on what it called the “New Blue” campaign to “provide Democrats with a path out of the wilderness.” Like many of their peers, the think tank’s brain trust had been stunned by the election. On November 9, too devastated to work, its staff had simply sat together and cried.
For all intents and purposes, it was Third Way’s vision that had been on the ballot in 2016—and lost. The think tank, inspired by the New Democrat centrism of the 1990s, had advised Hillary Clinton on her 2016 policy platform. In debates within the Democratic Party, Third Way advocated for the sensible center. It argued that a left-wing platform could not win elections, and that what voters preferred was a pragmatic, moderate, technocratic philosophy, socially liberal but pro-business and wary of big government. It used research and data to demonstrate that these policies made good politics.
After the electoral-college majority unexpectedly rejected Clinton and the Democrats, Third Way, in characteristic fashion, set out to research the problem and find a solution. Its data wonks got to work crunching demographic information. But its leaders were well aware that their statistics—everything the professional know-it-alls thought they knew—had failed to predict 2016. Data alone would not suffice.
And so Hale and her colleagues began a series of visits to targeted areas, including this one, Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District, which had voted Democratic for more than two decades—until it swung more than 15 points for Trump. I was allowed to ride along on the condition that I not identify any of the focus-group participants. I was hoping to use the trip as my own focus group of sorts: I wanted to get a sense of what 2017’s many delegations of liberal anthropologists were hearing from Trump Country.
I wondered if any of the tourists from the coasts would be open-minded enough to absorb a reality that might cut against their preconceptions. Did Third Way and Zuckerberg and Huffpo and all the rest want to confront an angry and divided nation head-on, or would they settle for a series of earnest exchanges that left their core assumptions intact?
Open-mindedness was the sworn commitment of the Third Way team. The researchers were determined to approach rural Wisconsin with humility and respect. After the election, Hale told me, “You heard people saying, ‘These people aren’t smart enough to vote, they’re so stupid, if that’s what they want, they deserve what they get.’ That hit us, on every level, as wrong.” They wanted to open their hearts and their minds and simply listen. They were certain that, in doing so, they would find what they believed was true: a bunch of reasonable, thoughtful, patriotic Americans. A nation of people who really wanted to get along.
Our tour of western Wisconsin had begun two days earlier, at an imposing courthouse in the rural county seat of Ellsworth, the self-proclaimed “cheese curd capital of Wisconsin.” A farmer in the group told Third Way’s eager listeners he knew exactly what was wrong with America: his fellow Americans.
“You’ve got all these parasites making a living off the bureaucracy,” the farmer declared, “like leeches pulling you down, bleeding you dry.” We had been in the state for just a few hours, and already the researchers’ quest for mutual understanding seemed to be hitting a snag.
Others in the group, a bunch of proudly curmudgeonly older white men, identified other culprits. There were plenty of jobs, a local elected official and business owner said. But today’s young people were too lazy or drug-addled to do them.
As we proceeded to meetings with diverse groups of community representatives, this sort of blame-casting was a common refrain. Disdain for the young, in particular, was a constant, across demographic, socio-economic, and generational lines: Even young people complained about young people. “They don’t want to do the work, and they always feel like they’re being picked on,” a recent graduate of a technical school in Chippewa Falls said of his fellow Millennials.
Some of the people we met expressed the conservative-leaning view that changes in society and the family were to blame. One, a technical-skills instructor at the Chippewa Falls school, questioned whether women belonged in the workplace at all. “That idea of both family members working, it’s a social experiment that I don’t know if it quite works,” he said. “If everyone’s working, who is making sure the children are raised right?”
Others expressed more liberal-minded sentiments, seeing insufficient government action as the root of the community’s problems. A school-board official cried as she described the problems plaguing education. A group of middle-class women who met through local activism lamented the area’s lack of diversity and hidden pockets of poverty.
Politics, though, was not the focus of the Third Way interviewers, who believed there was more to be gained by asking neutral, open-ended questions. In accordance with Third Way’s ideology, they believed that political partisanship was not most people’s primary concern. But sometimes the Wisconsinites brought up politics anyway.
At the Labor Temple Lounge in Eau Claire, nine gruff, tough-looking union men sat around a table. One had the acronym of his guild, the Laborers International Union of North America, tattooed on a bulging bicep. The men pinned the blame for most of their problems squarely on Republicans, from Trump to Governor Scott Walker. School funding, the minimum wage, college debt, income inequality, gerrymandering, health care, union rights: It was all, in their view, the GOP’s fault. A member of the bricklayers’ union lamented Walker’s cuts to public services: “If we can’t help each other,” he said, “what are we, a pack of wolves—we eat the weakest one? It’s shameful.”
But their negativity toward Republicans didn’t translate to rosy feelings for the Democrats, who, they said, too frequently ignored working-class people. And some of the blame, they said, fell on their fellow workers, many of whom supported Republicans against their own interests. “The membership”—the union rank-and-file—“voted for these Republicans because of them damn guns,” a Laborers Union official said. “You cannot push it out of their head. A lot of ‘em loved it when Walker kicked our ass.”
Debriefing after this particular group, the Third Way listeners said they found the union men demoralizing. “I feel like they can’t see their way out,” Hale said.
“They were very negative,” Paul Neaville, another researcher, concurred.
They were so fixated on blaming Republicans, Hale fretted. “It was very us-and-them.”
On the long drives between stops, I asked the researchers about their views and what they had been hearing around the country. They admitted that some of the things they had heard had shocked them. In South Florida, Hale told me, a local chamber of commerce official had calmly asserted, “We don’t have any Muslims here, and that’s a good thing, because Muslims are trouble.”
Hale, a tall woman with a breathy voice and a mop of curly red hair, had come to Wisconsin fresh off a silent Zen meditation retreat in California. She had spent her career building organizations and training activists to work for social change. Instinctively warm and curious, she easily struck up conversations with strangers and often ended interactions with hugs. Hers was a politics of empathy, she told me. “Whether you’re talking about nonviolence or feminism, it’s really the same idea: Everybody matters,” she said.  
When she heard views that challenged her sense of empathy—Muslims were bad, welfare recipients were leeches, women should not have careers outside the home—Hale reminded herself that she was there to listen, not to judge. “People have said stuff I was surprised to hear them say out loud,” Hale told me. “But we have to learn from that, too. Whatever they believe is true, because it’s true for them.”
Part of the point of the Wisconsin trip was to gather the evidence that would help them advance this agenda in intra-party debates. Understanding the mysterious ways of the elusive Trump voter had become the crucial currency of any political discussion. The face-to-face interactions they were having in Wisconsin, Hale said as we drove, were so much more valuable than any of the data-driven reports they customarily churned out for their “customers”—donors, elected officials, and the Democratic National Committee.
We sped from town to town in the rented Yukon, watching the exotic Middle American landscape fly by. At one point, a gaggle of bikers roared past us on one side. On the other side of the road, a bright-green field dotted with hay bales passed by. Looking at the bales, Hale mused, “Don’t they look like shredded wheat?”
Hale or her colleague Luke Watson, Third Way’s deputy director of strategy, began each Wisconsin focus group with a variation on the same refrain.
“We are a think tank that deals with what the plurality of Americans are thinking about—in other words, we don’t spend a lot of time on the ideological edges,” one of the two would explain. “It has started seeming like the far left and the far right were the only voice in America, but we know that’s not true. We focus on the 70 percent in the middle, because we think most of us, as Americans, are there.”
This was slightly disingenuous. Third Way, while not officially affiliated with a party, is an organization with a policy agenda, from gun control to entitlement reform, that it seeks to advance within the Democratic Party and with the broader public. Most of its funding comes from corporations and financial executives. Critics on the left call the group the Wall Street wing of the Democratic Party, and accuse it of advancing its donors’ interests over the greater political good. Third Way has called for cutting Social Security and Medicare and vehemently attacked the soak-the-rich economic populism of Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders. Voters, it claims, are not interested in a party that’s all about big government and tax-and-spend.
This debate between left and center has consumed the Democratic Party as it looks for a way forward after the debacle of 2016. Leftists claim that Hillary Clinton’s technocratic caution and coziness with Goldman Sachs alienated voters, and that Sanders, had he won the Democratic nomination, could have defeated Trump. Third Way makes the case that its brand of neoliberal centrism is still the party’s best hope.
Hale and Watson’s opening remarks to focus groups were an honest statement of the group’s animating worldview: that all things are possible when politicians make the right sales pitch to a fundamentally reasonable electorate that can agree on a lot of things. That in a time of division, they could find the things that still bound Americans together. That with enough research and focus groups and listening tours and charts and graphs, they could figure out—and cure—what ails the body politic.
It was a thesis that would not go unchallenged, even in flyover country. In rural Wisconsin, it turns out, the natives have Google.
We had come to the final stop on our listening tour, and the hippies were wary. Viroqua, a town of less than 5,000 people, has in recent years become home to a tiny progressive community. Earnest college graduates toil on organic farms; a “folk school” offers classes in sustainable living, from rabbit butchering to basket-weaving. Migrants from the likes of Madison and Berkeley are attracted to a rural idyll of food and electric co-ops, alternative schools, and locally sourced everything.
“Isn’t this underwritten by the DNC?” a local cafe owner asked Watson after his just-here-to-listen opening spiel. “I read somewhere you’re spending $20 million,” another man said. Another participant asked about corporate donors.
This was all pretty much true—Third Way, not the DNC, was paying for the project, but the “New Blue” campaign was hardly a nonpartisan effort. But Watson tried to deflect. He acknowledged that the session was “part of” the $20 million project, but he insisted it had nothing to do with any political party. “This is not about Democrats or Republicans—it’s about what’s going on beyond the Beltway,” he said.
With those concerns dispatched, the listening began in earnest. The Viroqua representatives were eager to extol the virtues of their community. It was an oasis of sanity, an organic farmer in a pink-and-blue plaid shirt said—unlike the dismal city where he’d grown up. “There was no culture with which to identify, just television, drinking, maybe sports,” he said. “There’s nothing to aspire to. You’re just going through life with a case of Mountain Dew in your car.”
The cafe owner—a bearded man in a North Face fleece—had recently attended a town hall held by the local Democratic congressman, Ron Kind, a Third Way stalwart and former chair of the House’s centrist New Democrat Coalition. “I’m not, like, a jumping-up-and-down Berniecrat,” the man said. “But what you see in these congressional meetings is a refusal to even play ball” with ideas considered too extreme, like single-payer health care. “All these centrist ideals,” he said, “are just perpetuating a broken system.”
This was a direct attack on the very premise of Third Way’s existence. These were not the ideas of the middle 70 percent. These were not the voices of an America that wanted to find mutual understanding with its neighbors. They were, essentially, separatists, proud of their extremism and disdainful of the unenlightened.
It was after this exchange that Hale, after she and Watson got back into the Yukon to debrief, as they did after every session in order to compose their eventual after-action report, had to stop and vent. Her problem wasn’t that people were wrong. She had managed to maintain her equanimity while hearing other groups express opinions she disagreed with. It was that they didn’t want to get along.
“I have so much hope, and it’s gotten kind of shaken from both ends, you know?” she said. “There’s an, I don’t know, blue-sky part of me that was like, ‘I’m going to go traveling around the country and see that we’re more about commonalities than differences, that we’re more about our desire to be together than to be separate.’ And I’m not saying that isn’t true. I’m just saying every once in a while it gets kicked in the ass.”
That moment of doubt does not appear in the report that Third Way released, which distills the group’s conclusions from the tour I joined. In the report, there is only one quotation from the hippie roundtable in Viroqua—a man who extols the area’s turnaround, in a section about the area’s “intense local pride.” “There’s love, beauty, and a sense of opportunity,” he is quoted as saying. “There’s been a rejuvenation of identity.”
In the moment, Hale had heard sentiments like this as disturbing, of a piece with the community’s self-satisfied separatism. In the report, it had been made to sound like a paean to localism.
The report surprised me when I read it. Despite the great variety of views the researchers and I had heard on our tour, the report had somehow reached the conclusion that Wisconsinites wanted consensus, moderation, and pragmatism—just like Third Way. We had heard people blame each other for their own difficulties, take refuge in tribalism, and appeal to extremes. But the report mentioned little of that. Instead it described the prevailing attitude as “an intense work ethic that binds the community together and helps it adapt to change.” (Third Way disputes these characterizations of its report.)
This supposedly universal belief in the value of hard work was the researchers’ principal finding from their trip to Wisconsin. “It is their North Star, guiding their sense of what is right and wrong, inside and outside of WI-3,” the report states. In the face of challenges, from school budget cuts to factory closures, the community had responded “with a fierce work ethic and a no-nonsense attitude.”
We had certainly heard some of that, but it wasn’t all we heard. In many cases, the report presents only one side of an issue about which we’d heard varying views. For example, it quotes a local employer who sang the praises of automation, but none of the union members who worried about jobs disappearing. It quotes a technical-college instructor proclaiming that crises in the education system create opportunities, but none of the public-school teachers who saw their classrooms gutted by voucher programs.
The report is short, covering only three big takeaways from the seven listening sessions Third Way conducted. The first is the importance of hard work; the second is the need for a strong workforce. The third, described in a section entitled “Just Get the Hell Out of My Way,” is locals’ purported antagonism to big government. “Whether the question is about immigration or banks, taxes or welfare, the people we spoke to generally felt that government policies were irrelevant to their daily lives,” it states. This view is made to sound like one that was broadly expressed, but in fact, we mostly heard it in just one session—the group of curmudgeonly farmers. Almost all of the quotations in this section are drawn from that group. There are no quotations from the people we met who were pro-government, such as the teachers and laborers and activists, who voiced concern that local, state, and federal government ought to be doing more to take care of people.
According to the report, the community’s “biggest frustrations” are “laggard government and partisan squabbling.” “The idea that such bickering can be tolerated in D.C. is appalling to most,” it states. The good people of western Wisconsin, Third Way found, wanted nothing so much as a society where people could put aside their differences. The report quotes a man who said, “We come together on projects and solve problems together.” It doesn’t quote any of the Wisconsinites we met who expressed partisan sentiments or questioned the prospect of consensus.
The researchers had somehow found their premise perfectly illustrated. Their journey to Trump’s America had done nothing to unsettle their preconceptions.
The Wisconsin report is the second Third Way has produced from its listening tour; still to come are its findings from Florida and Arizona. The group’s first report, on a trip to northwest Illinois, was quite a bit more pessimistic, with more emphasis on the decline of manufacturing, and more skepticism expressed about trade and immigration. Still, the Illinois report did, in the end, come to many of the same conclusions about what drove people: love of work and community, concern for the future, distrust of big government, and a desire to move past partisanship. Validating the researchers’ project, the Illinois report also found that Midwesterners felt overlooked in the national political dialogue. It quotes a local as complaining, “The coasts think we’re Jesusland or Dumbasfuckistan.”  
In Wisconsin, I had seen and heard everything the Third Way researchers did—and eaten at the same restaurants, and slept at the same Hampton Inn in Eau Claire, and watched the same landscape roll by the windows of the same SUV. I heard all the optimism they did, but I also heard its opposite: that one side was right and that the other was the enemy; that other Americans, not just the government, were to blame for the country’s problems. There’s plenty of fellow-feeling in the heartland for those who want to see it, but there’s plenty of division, too. And not every problem can be solved in a way that splits the difference.
The other groups of anthropologists roaming Middle America face the same quandary. Having gotten the country drastically wrong, they have set out on well-meaning missions to bring the country together by increasing mutual understanding. They share Third Way’s basic assumption that mutual understanding is something Americans can agree to find desirable. But as hard as they try to open their minds to new perspectives, are they ready to have that basic assumption challenged?
The researchers I rode with had dived into the heart of America with the best of intentions and the openest of minds. They believed that their only goal was to emerge with a better understanding of their country. And yet the conclusions they drew from what they heard corresponded only roughly to what I heard. Instead, they seemed to revert to their preconceptions, squeezing their findings into the same old mold. It seems possible, if not likely, that all the other delegations of earnest listeners are returning with similarly comforting, selective lessons. If the aim of such tours is to find new ways to bring the country together, or new political messages for a changed electorate, the chances of success seem remote as long as even the sharpest researchers are only capable of seeing what they want to see.
The last time I spoke to Nancy Hale, she was off on another Third Way trip, this one to southern Arizona. At a hotel in Tucson, preparing for her next discussion with a group of young immigration activists, she reflected on what a valuable experience the listening tour had been. “I’ve come to the conclusion that most of our divisions have to do with lack of understanding,” she told me. “And I don’t mean in some kind of academic way, I mean in a very human way. I know it’s very unpopular to say there are any benefits of the recent election, but people seem to be moving more toward that.”
There was another way the tour had been valuable: As Third Way argued its preferred course for the Democratic Party, its on-the-ground research was already lending crucial credibility to its claims, she said. In meetings with Democratic elected officials and presentations to the DNC, Hale told me, Third Way’s representatives could reel off anecdote after anecdote about the Real People of Middle America they’d met. “The fact that we now have this very direct experience that we can use to tell a story—we get listened to in a different way, because we’ve figured out a better way to say it,” Hale told me. I had no doubt this was true—that Beltway Democrats were eagerly swallowing Third Way’s claims, bolstered by their firsthand accounts of the mysterious heartland. Since the Wisconsin trip, Third Way has published an analysis claiming the Democratic Party cannot win back the House if it focuses on its base and ignores working-class whites, and another that says the party’s main problem is that “Americans don’t see Democrats as the party of jobs.”
What stuck with her above all, Hale told me, was how grateful people were to the researchers for hearing them. “The things people end up saying to us are really kind of miraculous considering that, five minutes before, they had never met us,” she said. “I think that has to do with us saying, This matters. You are the democracy. You matter.”
It was gratifying to Nancy Hale to find, in the end, that America wasn’t lost. To be sure, there had been moments that made her wonder. But as she looked back on it, she had managed to edit those moments out of her memory. The American people, she concluded, were not as divided and irreconcilable as the election made them seem. Progressive neoliberalism was not a lost cause. The world she believed in before—the world she preferred to inhabit—was the one she and her fellow American explorers had managed to find: not a strange land at all but a reassuring one.


Alabama is usually such a happy place for Republicans. The state is not merely blood red; its conservatives thrill to the culture-war revanchism that the GOP has been peddling for decades. (I know plenty of Alabamans—family, mostly—who have felt sneered at and let down since George Wallace failed to become president.)
But then came this year’s special Senate primary, and things turned ass-over-teacup for the party. After all the money and effort spent on boosting Luther Strange (the guy appointed to Jeff Sessions’s seat when he decamped for the Cabinet), the prize ultimately went to the flagrantly batty Roy Moore. This despite Donald Trump’s taking his carnival barker act down South to sing Big Luther’s praises in person.     
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
With Moore now polling a mere handful of points ahead of his Democratic challenger (in Alabama!), party leaders are understandably perturbed—gnaw-your-nails-bloody-and-sleep-with-a-bottle-of-Johnny-Walker perturbed. The situation is made all the worse by Moore’s win emboldening ousted White House adviser Stephen Bannon to declare war on Senate Republicans who he sees as thwarting his alt-righty dreams, with a special focus on team captain Mitch McConnell.
But now is no time for weepy regret. The establishment is scrambling to learn from its ’Bama butt-whooping, in the hopes of correcting course, reshaping the narrative, and avoiding a wave of Moore-ish upsets in next year’s midterm primaries.
For starters, Republican leaders desperately want to keep people from reading too much into Alabama. The field and the combatants were unusual, they insist. For two decades, Moore has been a folk hero to many religious conservatives; former state Attorney General Strange, meanwhile, carried the stigma of being tapped for the Senate by disgraced Governor Robert Bentley—who at the time was being investigated by Strange for sex-scandally misconduct and who was eventually driven from office. So the first lesson, chuckled Steven Law, head of the McConnell-tied Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC committed to nurturing the party’s majority: “If somebody who is about to go to jail offers to appoint you to the U.S. Senate, you should say no.”
More seriously, said Law, “That particular race had certain structural elements to it that at the outset we weren’t fully cognizant of.”
Strange’s association with Bentley was “more toxic than people in D.C. realized,” said another senior GOP operative. Long after stories about Bentley faded from the media, the stench stuck. “It was something folks were talking about at church and at the salon.”
More generally, the Alabama electorate is seen as a special breed. Said the operative, “I think Alabama—when you look at other states we’re going to be playing in that potentially have primary challenges—the makeup of the state is very different.”
Alabama’s specialness aside, it does offer lessons for the broader political landscape, say leaders. Law, in fact, laid out many of these in a memo to his PAC’s “investors” last month on how “the playbook for winning Republican primaries needs to be recalibrated and improved” to inspire “an electorate that has dramatically realigned itself with President Trump at the helm.”
Lesson #1: Candidates must never forget that their voters remain seriously ticked off. “After Barack Obama was elected in 2008, Democratic voters spent about a year in a cloud of euphoric giddiness, feeling like things were wonderful,” Law told me. “This is not the mood Republican voters are in. They are expectant, frustrated, unhappy with pace of change in Washington.”
In his memo, Law noted that Moore had a “combative and politically incorrect style” that happily reminded focus group participants of Trump. By contrast, the “cautious,” “genial” Strange had an “affable demeanor and soft banter” that “were pitch-perfect for Birmingham business audiences, but seemed out of tune with more conservative voters.”
“Republicans are in a feisty and confrontational mood, and they want to see their leaders show some energy and fight,” Law told me.
Mild-mannered candidates take note: Time to start cultivating your rage. (Is there such a thing as reverse meditation?)
Unsurprisingly, the continued existence of Obamacare really makes the base crazy. “When the Senate failed to push the repeal, it was like dropping a huge magnet on the table,” said Law. “All Republican voters suddenly realigned around that issue.”
To try and deal with this “fiasco,” Law has urged candidates to “highlight” how hard they personally worked to kill Obamacare and “challenge those who stood in the way of delivering on this core GOP promise.”
Of course, the problem goes way beyond Obamacare. With President Obama gone, the Republican Congress has emerged as the all-purpose bogeyman of its own base. For this, they can thank their president. Wrote Law, “This narrative is driven by Trump himself, and it resonates with primary voters who believe the Republican Congress ‘isn’t doing enough’ (as we frequently heard in focus groups) to advance the President’s agenda.”
How incumbents choose to run against their own conference is a deeply personal matter. But all Republican senators should keep in mind that a big chunk of their base pretty much hates them.
Digging into the nitty-gritty, Alabama also revealed the power of old-fashioned media, specifically radio. “In Alabama, talk radio was a dominant factor,” said Law. “A lot of people point to information flow over the internet. But in Alabama and a lot of other states, Republican primary voters live on talk radio.” In his memo, he noted that local hosts are almost as influential as national celebs like Sean Hannity and Laura Ingraham “and are much more receptive to cultivation.” Anywhere an incumbent could be “challenged from the right,” asserted Law, “talk radio must be a top priority for earned media outreach.”
And what of Steve Bannon’s declaration of war? Party leaders acknowledge they must find the right balance between taking him too seriously (thus giving him additional stature) and not seriously enough (allowing him too much freedom to make mischief).
Thus far, the approach seems to be that, every now and again, lawmakers and other party veterans will cut loose with a little Bannon bashing. The Hill recently ran a piece featuring multiple GOP Senators downplaying Bannon’s threat, suggesting he was backing unelectable candidates, and predicting that he would eventually wise up and back down.  
Karl Rove, meanwhile, took to the Wall Street Journal to fire both barrels at Bannon’s “motley crew of challengers.”
No question, party leaders are miffed about the storyline that Bannon was a key player in Alabama—which they blame largely on “hyperventilation” by the national media. He brought neither money nor infrastructure to the game, sniffed the operative, who characterized Bannon’s basic contributions as holding a couple of rallies and mouthing off to the media.
“I’ll give him credit for being a pretty effective huckster,” said another strategist. “He sees where the wind is blowing, jumps in front of it, and acts as if he caused the effects.”
Determined not to let Bannon’s reputation grow any larger, Law and others aggressively dismiss his recruiting efforts as “increasingly desperate” and pooh-pooh claims that he is poaching big donors. “You saw the fundraising report for quarter three and the pledges for the upcoming quarter. Our fundraising is on fire," said Law. And while donors, like garden-variety voters, are frustrated over the lack of progress, Law expressed confidence that they won’t defect to Team Bannon—even if things get worse.
“If we were to fail to get tax reform done, a lot of Republican donors would holster their wallets,” he told me. “I think even in that circumstance, they would not buy into a Bannon worldview that would really harm the party for years and years to come.”
Leaders are also pushing candidates to think carefully before snuggling up to Bannon. (This is a particularly touchy issue in races where Bannon is backing folks recruited by the party, such as Missouri, Tennessee, and Ohio.) Said Law, “We’re warning that if you wrap yourself around Steve Bannon, you’re going to wind up having to answer for all his toxic views and statements that are well known and will be replayed by Democrats next fall.”
For all the headaches and heartaches it has caused the GOP this fall, Alabama may turn out to be a clarifying moment for the party—or, alternatively, a harbinger of things to come.


The typical career path for senior members of Congress who give up their seats is  to cash in and take richly paid jobs as lobbyists or consultants. Others run for higher office, typically for governor or senator.
Few of them do what Candice Miller did in 2015, when the seven-term Republican decided not to run for reelection, giving up her post as the lone woman committee chairman in the House. Miller returned to Michigan and last year asked the voters of Macomb County to let her run their sewers and drains. And by the time she took over as the county’s public-works commissioner in January, she discovered that she had escaped the metaphorical swamp of D.C. only to clean up a literal one back home.
Last Christmas Eve, a week before Miller, 63, was to start her new job, a major county sewer line ruptured and opened a sinkhole the size of a high-school football field. Two days later, millions of gallons of raw sewage began flowing into a river that feeds into the Great Lakes.
“It wasn’t quite what I was expecting to walk into,” Miller told me recently, chuckling as she recalled her hectic transition from running hearings in Congress to inspecting storm drains in Macomb. “About 600,000 people flush their toilets through this interceptor, and now it collapsed.”
The Class of 2010 Heads Home
Miller wasn’t complaining—far from it. “I couldn’t be happier where I am right now, to tell you the truth,” she said. When we spoke, she had just gotten back from inspecting another aging storm drain, an impromptu but not uncommon site visit that she decided to take after one of her contractors sent her iPhone photos of its decay. After the sinkhole opened in December, Miller got into a steel cage (“It looks like a shark cage, almost”) that would take her to the bottom of the interceptor so she could take a close look at the damage.
“I’m a hands-on person,” she explained.
That a veteran politician would find more satisfaction being lowered into a pit of sewage than making national policy in Washington says a lot about the state of Congress at the moment. Ordinarily, it’s the members of the minority party who flee the Capitol in droves after a few years out of power, once they get sufficiently tired of seeing their legislative proposals squelched without so much as a hearing.
But in the last few years, Republicans have suffered as much of an exodus as Democrats have, and it’s not only the old-timers who are leaving. In the Senate, Bob Corker of Tennessee is giving up a powerful perch as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee to retire after just two six-year terms—a relative blink of an eye in a chamber where longevity is measured in decades. Miller’s Michigan colleague, Representative Dave Trott, decided last month he’d had it less than halfway through his third year in office; he won’t run again in 2018. And last week, Representative Pat Tiberi of Ohio joined Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah in announcing plans to leave before his term is up. For Tiberi, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, the decision might mean he’d leave before seeing the enactment of comprehensive tax reform, perhaps his foremost goal in Congress.
Like the others, Miller was neither swept out by the voters nor forced out by a scandal’s disgrace. She just got tired of the dysfunction and knew it was time to leave a job she never planned to hold for so long. “When I first ran for the Congress, I honestly never thought I would stay there for seven terms,” Miller told me. “I know everybody says that. Everybody says, ‘Oh, I never thought I would ever be here this long,’ but now they’re there 20 years, 30 years, or however long they’re there. But I really thought, ‘Well, I’ll be there six, maybe eight, then it’s 10, then it’s 12.’
“It’s because it’s very insidious, whether you’re a Democrat or a Republican,” she continued. “I mean, pretty soon you’re moving up in seniority.” Miller had become chair of the House Administration Committee, the only Republican chairwoman in a party still dominated by men. She had first run for the House after September 11 as a security hawk in 2002, and she had worked her way up to a subcommittee chairmanship on the Homeland Security Committee. It was a fight that held up the passage of a spending bill for the Department of Homeland Security—the petty details of which she said she’d already forgotten—that Miller described as the final straw. “I just thought to myself, ‘This is crazy,’” she recalled. “This place is so dysfunctional.”
There was a long gap between when Miller decided, in the spring of 2015, not to run for reelection and when she opted to run for public-works commissioner in Macomb many months later. She considered a number of private-sector offers, including lobbying in Washington, but passed on them. As she spoke to friends back home, she began to seriously weigh returning to local government, where she began her political career with stints as a township supervisor, county treasurer, and then Michigan secretary of state. Miller’s allies encouraged her to challenge Anthony Marrocco, the 24-year Democratic incumbent whose office was becoming embroiled in a corruption scandal.
Macomb’s county executive, Mark Hackel, also a Democrat, went so far as to pledge his support for Miller if she got into the race. “Everywhere she’s gone, she’s turned whatever the situation was that she walked into better than what it once was,” Hackel said in an interview. “I offered her the thought of running for public works and told her, ‘If you do that and you announce, I will endorse you the moment you announce you were running for that office.’”
Hackel said he had virtually no communication or cooperation with Marrocco’s office, despite the two men representing the same party.  “Everything was a quid pro quo,” he told me. “‘You want something? This is what I need from you.’ I don’t work under those conditions.” Before she entered the race, Miller’s friends warned her that with Marrocco’s reputation for protecting his turf, Macomb politics could get as nasty as Washington’s. Marrocco fought aggressively, writing his campaign a $1.1 million loan check in what became one of the most expensive county races in the state’s history.
Miller leaned heavily on Hackel’s endorsement and ran on a slogan of “Clean Water, Clean Government.” She won by nine points in a surprisingly strong year for Republicans in Macomb, the old home of Reagan Democrats that Donald Trump carried in the presidential election. In our interview, Miller made sure to point out that she overperformed Trump in the county in November. “I love Trump,” she said with a laugh, “but I didn’t come in on his coattails.”
While some of Miller’s House colleagues were surprised by her decision to return to local politics, those who knew her best were less taken aback. “That’s who she is: She sees a problem, and tries to find a solution,” said Representative Debbie Dingell, a Michigan Democrat and a close friend. Several lawmakers, Miller said, came up to her to reminisce about their own time in local government, as mayors, or sheriffs, or county executives. And although public-works commissioner is not a fancy title—until 1976, it was the even less sexy “drain commissioner”—it’s an important post. “It’s not like a dogcatcher role,” said Representative Fred Upton, another Michigan Republican. “You better do it right, because no one wants a flooded house or home or community.”
Miller learned that before she even took office. She partnered with Hackel, who introduced her at a press conference near the sinkhole site on New Year’s Day as “the new sheriff in town.” Miller quickly replaced top staff in the 65-person office, poaching talent from other agencies. The $75 million project to replace the collapsed sewer line, she boasted pridefully, will soon be finished on time and under budget. “There’s no longer this question of impropriety or corruption out of that office,” Hackel said. “And we’re getting things done.” As for Marrocco, he has denied wrongdoing but remains under FBI investigation as part of a bribery scandal in which 15 people have already been charged.
Though polls showed Miller running ahead in a potential race for Michigan governor next year, she endorsed state Attorney General Bill Schuette and appears content where she is. Miller told me that she does occasionally think about where she’d be if she stayed in Congress to help enact the GOP agenda under President Trump. But then she remembered the current reality of Capitol Hill, where House Republicans are constantly “passing bills that go out into the ether somewhere, never to be heard from again.”
It’s much easier for Miller to see the impact she’s having in Macomb, cleaning up an environmental disaster and rebuilding critical infrastructure. “I have so much happening here,” she told me. Miller might not be any busier than the Republican colleagues she left in Congress, but after nine months back in Macomb, she appears to have more to show for it.


It was a week of powerful speeches. The least memorable, oddly, was delivered by the most naturally gifted speaker, former President Barack Obama, at a campaign rally in Virginia. “Our democracy is at stake,” he said, before harking back to the trope of his 2008 campaign: “Yes, we can.” Compelling in the setting, but not special.
Far more powerful was former President George W. Bush’s indictment of Donald Trump that didn’t mention the 45th president by name. It was a cry for freedom as a theme in American policy, a denunciation of “casual cruelty” in American discourse, of “nationalism distorted into nativism,” of isolationism, of attempts to turn American identity away from American ideals and into something darker, driven by “geography or ethnicity, by soil or blood.” In itself it would have been noteworthy.
But the speeches that will last—that historians will recall, that will live well beyond the moment—were delivered by two badly wounded warriors, one torn in body, the other in spirit. Senator John McCain, bearing the wounds of years of torture in a North Vietnamese prison, with an incurable cancer in his future, spoke while receiving a medal. John Kelly, grieving for his son lost in battle and for others like him, surprised and stunned reporters in a White House press conference. Their contrasting visions of this country, of military service, and of our future bear reflection.
The Necessity of Questioning the Military
It was Shakespearean. John McCain, like old John of Gaunt, might truly say, “O, but they say the tongues of dying men, Enforce attention like deep harmony: Where words are scarce, they are seldom spent in vain.” John Kelly, like the grim warrior Talbot looking at his son’s corpse, might say “Triumphant death, smear’d with captivity; Young Talbot’s valour makes me smile at thee.” But the two could not be more different.
McCain’s was a speech of fire but also of light: “What a privilege it is to serve this big, boisterous, brawling, intemperate, striving, daring, beautiful, bountiful, brave, magnificent country.” As he, like Bush, denounced blood-and-soil nationalism, he told his listeners, “We will not thrive in a world where our leadership and ideals are absent. We wouldn’t deserve to.” But staring into the shade as he is, McCain sang of others: “I’ve been inspired by the service of better patriots than me.” He celebrated America, “this wondrous land,” and if he paid tribute to those who fell, he spoke chiefly of an America that makes “the future better than the past.”
Kelly’s speech was delivered in a matter of fact tone, with moments of strain, as he described the care with which American soldiers treat their dead comrades, the impossibility of saying the right thing to bereaved parents, his solitary walk among the graves at Arlington. The occasion that led him to face the press was the imperative of pulling his bumbling boss out of a crisis of his own making—a condolence telephone call that left a young widow more upset than before, an angry representative criticizing the president, and more lies from the commander in chief about how his compassion had exceeded that of all of his predecessors.
But it turned into something different: a meditation on the difference between “the 1 percent” and the rest of us, between those who bear the sting of battle and burden of grief at young lives lost, and those who watch from the sidelines. He lashed out (inaccurately, as it turned out) at the politician who overheard the call because she was a friend of the family. He lurched into images of the past in which women were regarded as sacred. He pointedly discriminated among those asking questions, suggesting that only those who were Gold Star relatives or knew a stricken family had the right to ask him questions. Indeed, the White House press secretary later declared that it is improper for anyone to question a Marine four star—a statement worthy of Wilhelmine Germany at its worst.
To some extent it was all an exercise in projection, as the psychologists would say. The remark about women, from the chief of staff of a man who has celebrated groping them; the castigation of a politician for falsely taking credit for a building, from a man who works for a builder who does nothing but take credit that he does not deserve; the empty barrel that makes the most noise, when every day he works for a man without a moral center but with a loud mouth; the disgust at the treatment of bereaved fathers, referencing the Khan family but omitting candidate Trump’s sneer at them—in a way, the speech was all about Trump, and probably unconsciously so.
The real sting came at the end. He told those in the audience that he did not look down on them for not having served; rather people like him—again, the 1 percent—merely feel sorry for civilians. But his final shot—“So just think of that”—undercut the previous sentence. The contempt was unmistakable.
Maybe it is all the result of a kind of misunderstanding. Trump, lacking empathy for others, ignorant of the military service he avoided, clumsily copied the words General Joe Dunford used with his comrade, General John Kelly: Your son knew what he was getting himself in for. Those words might be consoling for tough old veterans bonded by war, but utterly wrong for a powerful rich old white man talking to a distraught young African American widow. But how would Trump possibly understand that?
The real matter goes deeper. John Kelly opened a dark divide, painting an idealized picture of all veterans, and implicitly disparaging not merely the great mass of citizens, but all those who display courage and selflessness in the normal course of life. The rawness of his own grief put on display by his boss, who dragged that pain into public sight without Kelly’s permission, may explain his disdain, his anger, his contempt. In delivering those remarks, however, he painted a dark America, in which an undeserving 99 percent live off the selflessness of others whom they cannot understand and can never sufficiently appreciate. It may have been a cry of despair from a man who is serving a commander in chief who has lived by none of the values that make Kelly a respected and indeed beloved leader. It may as well reflect guilt, as he described walking among the graves at Arlington: “Some of whom I put there because they were doing what I told them to do when they were killed.” We cannot know, but surely, this is tragedy.
Better to stick with John McCain. Better, like John of Gaunt, to know that “The setting sun, and music at the close, As that last taste of sweets, is sweetest last.” Better to heed the voice of someone who has known grievous loss but emerged from great suffering with a great love of his country’s ideals and not just its soil, and who, as he faces his own end, celebrates his country’s future with the optimism that is natively American. In short, better the light.


Earlier this month, the Supreme Court of Georgia answered a question that has long tormented American youth—or at least me when I was an American youth: If I flip off the pastor, can the police put me in jail?
The answer, in Georgia at least, is no: “a raised middle finger, by itself, does not, without more, amount to fighting words or a true threat,” the state court said. For that reason, a disgruntled parishioner could not be convicted of acting “in a violent or tumultuous manner” and placing another person “in reasonable fear of” their safety.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
The protected nature of the middle finger has long been established in American law. But the defendant in Freeman v. State exercised his right to bear digit in the church sanctuary. That fact touches on a larger question that should be well understood but isn’t—the free expression rights of professional athletes.
First, though, the case: on August 3, 2014, David J. Freeman attended Sunday services at the Flowery Branch campus of 12Stone church, a mega church with locations in eight Georgia communities. On that occasion, associate executive pastor Jason Berry asked teachers present to stand for a start-of-the-school-year blessing. Freeman is a home-schooling parent who objects strongly to public education. As related by the Georgia court, “Freeman raised his middle finger in the air and stared angrily at the pastor,” then “began yelling about sending children off to the evil public schools and having them raised by Satan.” This harangue was partially drowned out by the alert music minister. After the congregation filed out, Freeman urged Pastor Berry to be ashamed of himself, then left.
Freeman was convicted of disorderly conduct, which under Georgia law requires “violent or tumultuous behavior.” (Prosecutors conceded that flipping someone off is not “violent,” but insisted it was “tumultuous.”) The Georgia supreme court said the disorderly conduct statute could not constitutionally be applied: “there was no showing here that Freeman’s act of silently raising his middle finger from the back of the church during the church service constituted ‘fighting words’ or a ‘true threat’ that would amount to a tumultuous act ... .”
There’s a dog that didn’t bark here; Freeman’s discourtesy occurred entirely on private property, but that simply didn’t enter into the calculus. As guaranteed by the First Amendment, “the freedom of speech” follows Americans into houses of worship, and everywhere else. Threats, incitement to riot, “fighting words,” defamation, fraud and a few other classes of expression are, as a matter of history, outside “the freedom of speech”; but otherwise, wherever in the U.S. speech occurs, a speaker cannot be punished by the state because of the message the speech conveys.
That’s not to say that 12Stone church can’t, if it chooses, ask Freeman to leave the service. If he refuses, he might be arrested—but that refusal is conduct, not speech. The church can also excommunicate Freeman or otherwise penalize him as a church member—church membership is a private matter. But the state can’t punish him for being a bad parishioner.
The distinction is important.  Thanks to President Trump, the First Amendment rights of professional athletes have become subjects of debate. In a speech in Alabama, Trump attacked Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who last season refused, because of his concern over police killings of African Americans, to stand for the national anthem—first remaining seated, then taking a knee—last season: “Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out! He’s fired. He’s fired!’”
Trump’s remarks turned into a series of angry tweets; in response, NFL players began kneeling during the anthem to show their solidarity with Kaepernick, who has yet to be signed to play for any pro team this year, and has filed a grievance accusing team owners of colluding to keep him unsigned.
Trump then demanded that the league, and the team owners, require players to stand. When some owners appeared reluctant, he turned up the heat, threatening retaliation against the league:
Why is the NFL getting massive tax breaks while at the same time disrespecting our Anthem, Flag and Country? Change tax law!
Meanwhile, in bars and parlors across the country, the issue of the flag and the anthem are being aired—and one massive misconception is that, because the players are private employees performing in a private venue, the First Amendment doesn’t apply to their protest.
Of course it does. Just like David J. Freeman in church, they are protected from being jailed, or in any way punished by the state, because someone considers their protests offensive or unpatriotic.
As private business owners, the owners may negotiate a contract with their players—including one that requires the players to stand during the anthem. Whether the NFL players’s agreement gives the owners that power may very well wind up in court—but as a matter of contract, not constitutional, law.
But, if the owners were acting for the government—or under government threat or  compulsion—then, as Sir Edward Plowden might once have said, the case is altered. The First Amendment really would come into play.
The First Amendment does not just protect the players against prosecution for crime. Under a long line of cases, it also forbids any kind of official retaliation because of their protected speech. Retaliation cases are a staple of public employee law; teachers, say, or other government workers may speak—outside of work—about public matters and find themselves demoted or fired not long afterwards. If the employee can show that the adverse action was taken because of the protected speech, then whoever ordered the retaliation can be sued for violating free-speech rights.
So what, right? The owners aren’t the government.
Or—are they?
If someone powerful—let’s say the president—uses threats, persuasion, and pressure to conscript the owners in his culture war; and if those owners, at the president’s demand, punish their players; then caselaw suggests those private figures may in a sense become the government—and thus can be sued as surely as a public official can.
Columbia Law Professor Tim Wu points to the case of Page v. Coyner, decided in 2010 by the Sixth Circuit. Martha Paige worked for a development company; as a private citizen, she appeared at a county hearing to oppose a road project. An outraged county official then called her employer and said (falsely) that Paige had used her company title in her remarks. Three days later, the company fired Paige.
She sued the official; the Sixth Circuit decided that, if the official called her employer as an act of retaliation, then the employer’s private action became “state action”—and thus could be the basis of a First Amendment lawsuit.  (One judge wrote separately to emphasize that Paige need not prove that the county official “ordered” the employer to fire her, simply that the official exercised “coercive power” or provided ”significant encouragement, either overt or covert” that led to the firing.)
Even if the players prove retaliation, they still won’t be able to get damages from Trump; in a 1982 retaliation case, the Supreme Court held that a president, acting in official capacity, is immune from damage suits.
But what about the owners? Last I checked, they had really deep pockets. What if they, like the company in Paige, become “state actors”?
Consider Dossett v. First State Bank, an Eighth Circuit case. A bank employee questioned a school district policy at a public meeting; afterwards, officials of the school district (which kept a lot of money in the bank) expressed their displeasure with her to the bank’s president. The president fired the employee. The appeals court held that if “a school official reach[es] a mutual understanding with a private actor to retaliate against a private citizen” that retaliating private actor becomes a “state actor”—and can be sued.
Trump’s tweets and threats may seem hollow, of course. The president by himself does not have the power to change the NFL’s tax status. But it is hornbook law that says even threats by themselves may chill protected speech. And in Dossett, the court of appeals emphasized that officials threats can establish state action even if the official lacks the power to carry them out. Maybe nobody could sue Trump; but if the owners reach a “mutual understanding” with him, they might not be immune.
The questions is whether the NFL’s actions in such circumstances, from a constitutional standpoint, are those of private entity or of a state actor. “I'd say that when the president orders a private entity to censor someone, and they do, the state has acted in constitutional terms, full stop,” Columbia’s Wu told me in an email.
“This is, to my mind, all about what happens when the White House commands or demands private censorship,” he added. “It has been a signature move of this administration—to order this or that private entity to fire someone for their speech, or begin [to] enforce the President's preferred speech rules, etc.  It is sort of outsourcing censorship, or censorship by proxy and I think it has begun to reach constitutional concern.”
Trump’s attack on free expression, if nothing else, represents an upraised middle finger directed at the First Amendment. Powerful private parties might want to hesitate before they say amen.


One of the stranger aspects of having a conspiracy theorist in the Oval Office is that it goes against the way conspiracy theorizing usually works.
Conspiracy theories are a way to stand up, through disbelief, against the powerful. Those who spread conspiracy theories in earnest are, whether they mean to or not, partaking in an act of defiance against established institutions as much as they are questioning accepted truths. Usually, then, a refusal to believe the widely accepted explanation of how something happened originates from outside of official channels like government. A president might be the one accused of the conspiracy; rarely is he the one spreading rumors.  
Donald Trump is not like other presidents.
Trump is powerful, yes. And he has been for decades. Before he was president he was a wealthy television star and real-estate developer. He was long famous for being famous, a fixture in the New York City tabloids since the 1980s. Yet he has all the while gravitated toward tall tales and hoaxes. Today he is the president who falsely cries “fake news” about the legitimate information he dislikes. He is also the most famous champion of Birtherism, the lie that Barack Obama was born outside of the United States. And he is a performer who has, for decades, relished occupying the public space between real and make-believe, whether as a game-show host on reality television or in the pro-wrestling cameos he made.
Trump’s involvement in all this isn’t universally—or even mostly—malicious, but looking at the president’s involvement in make-believe over four decades does reveal a spectrum of truth-bending. Far on one side is the playful end. That’s where you’ll find Trump doing scripted wrestling stunts and strutting around on The Apprentice. Opposite that is the manipulative and maybe even authoritarian side of the spectrum—where he’s peddled Birtherism and made increasingly disturbing attacks on the free press.
The curious thing about all this is the extent to which these various performances of alternate reality converge. In 2017, Trump’s previous pro-wrestling playacting dovetails neatly, and in gif form, with an attack on the Fourth Estate. And his tabloid-fueled, campaign-trail instigations about the JFK assassination—he suggested the father of a political opponent, Ted Cruz, was somehow involved—are the backdrop against which the public must attempt to contextualize a presidential decision about open records.
“Subject to the receipt of further information,” Trump tweeted Saturday morning, “I will be allowing, as President, the long blocked and classified JFK FILES to be opened.”
Trump’s announcement came a day after his longtime confidant Roger Stone went on Infowars, a radio show and website known for spreading conspiracy theories, and announced that Trump would not block the release of the documents, which are set to be issued by the National Archives in the coming days. Earlier that day, Politico Magazine had published an in-depth piece saying that Trump would likely block the release of the files.
Here’s the thing that happens, apparently, when a conspiracy theorist becomes president of the United States: The lines between decision and reaction blur. The American people are accustomed to public officials spinning their way through public office. No president has been truly forthcoming with the electorate. Many have misled the American people.
Yet Trump isn’t just indifferent to truth, as any neutral party can see; and he isn’t solely set on deceiving the public, despite what many of his critics insist. Donald Trump isn’t even first and foremost a performer. He’s a pretender. And he has a preternatural sense for what people want him to be.
So when Donald Trump suggests he will help the public access long-secret JFK files in the name of transparency, he’s doing it with the same talent for identifying the kinds of stories that captivate people that he’s leaned on his entire career. (Those who have studied the JFK assassination closely are mixed on the potential significance of these files. “I’ve always thought that the release of these documents is going to be something like what happened on New Year’s Eve 2000,” Josiah Thompson, the author of Six Seconds in Dallas: A Micro-Study of the Kennedy Assassination, told me on Saturday. “A great big zero of happening!”)
Regardless of the files, though, Trump’s attention to them is a window into how he wants to be seen. In one dashed-off tweet, Trump positions himself as doing something noble—advocating for transparency, against the warnings of the intelligence community—while feeding at least two major conspiracies. One, that the press is “the enemy of the American people” working in cahoots with the deep state, and, two, by lending credibility to the idea that the official story of JFK's assassination is indeed suspect.
“The best conspiracy theories have all the trappings of a classic underdog story,” wrote Rob Brotherton in his book, Suspicious Minds. “We want to see top dogs taken down a peg; we want the downtrodden underdog to triumph. And when it comes to conspiracy theories, unfair disadvantage is par for the course.”
The president of the United States is not an underdog. But Donald Trump has repeatedly leveraged a perceived underdog status into success—his comeback from bankruptcy in the 1990s and, more recently, his establishment-rocking presidential victory last year. Trump knows how well the underdog narrative has served him. And he knows exactly how conspiracy theories grab people. Spreading Birtherism was largely an attention campaign, one that helped establish a base of future voters who would eventually help elect him.
“Trump has built a coalition of conspiracy minded constituencies,” said Joseph Uscinski, a political science professor at the University of Miami and the co-author of American Conspiracy Theories. “Trump had no political experience, and he therefore had to justify his candidacy by appealing to conspiracy theories that impugned the establishment. Trump appealed to people who had conspiracy mindsets and who would normally be disinclined to vote, but Trump used conspiracy theories to motivate them.”
“Now, appealing to JFK conspiracy theories is a great idea for him,” Uscinski added, “because recent polls show that 60 percent of Americans believe in one form of JFK conspiracy or another.”
Trump’s focus on JFK comes, too, at a moment when it would serve the president to have the American people talk about anything other than his false claims about comforting grieving military families—and subsequent scramble to prove them. Trump certainly is not the underdog in that scandal.
“You need to be at a disadvantage, and your disadvantage needs to be unfair—due either to lack of resources or to the malicious actions of an aggressive opponent,” Brotherton writes of true underdogs in his book. “When we feel like somebody’s disadvantage is self-imposed—when they have all the resources to succeed and still fail regardless—we dislike them even more than a simple loser.”


There are no normal weeks in the Donald Trump era, just weird weeks and even weirder weeks. Last week was one of the latter. The week before it one of Trump’s most politically effective so far, bringing him closer to completing several key promises and stalling out a Democratic winning streak. So naturally, last week almost immediately went off the rails.
Monday afternoon, President Trump delivered a press conference from an alternative reality, or perhaps a slightly-less-dark timeline. His relationship with Mitch McConnell is great! They have the votes for Obamacare repeal! The hurricane relief effort in Puerto Rico is a smashing success! Democrats are to blame for GOP divisions on Capitol Hill! These claims range from the highly dubious to the patently false.
The most eyecatching claims from the press conference, however, were that he calls the family of every servicemember who dies, and that he was far more attentive to the concerns of Gold Star families. Over the course of several days, this was revealed to be false in dramatic fashion.
On Tuesday, pressed by Mike Sacks on why he kept saying, incorrectly, that U.S. tax rates were the highest in the world, Trump confidently, and just as incorrectly, said he meant they were the highest in the developed world.
Then on Thursday, Trump hosted Puerto Rican Governor Ricardo Rosselló at the White House. Even with barely a fifth of the island electrified and less than two-thirds with running water, Trump rated federal response to hurricanes there a 10 out of 10.
He topped it off on Saturday night by tweeting that “perhaps no Administration has done more in its first 9 months than this Administration.”
The question is not whether these claims are balderdash. The question is whether Trump believes them.
Politico’s Josh Dawsey wrote that the Monday press conference was Trump’s attempt to convince the public things were going well. “Friends say President Donald Trump has grown frustrated that his greatness is not widely understood, that his critics are fierce and on TV every morning, that his poll numbers are both low and ‘fake,’ and that his White House is caricatured as adrift,” Dawsey reported. Does Trump believe things are going beautifully, and that they’re simply misunderstood, as Dawsey’s sources contend? Or is his counterfactual spin part of an attempt to make his greatness real by convincing an obstinate public it does?
The idea that Trump’s problem is not substance but how he communicates it is not new (nor is it peculiar to him—it was also one of Barack Obama’s favorite fallbacks).
On the one hand, there have been repeated stories along these lines. On October 9, for example, The Washington Post reported that he was “frustrated by his Cabinet and angry that he has not received enough credit for his handling of three successive hurricanes.” On August 31, the Post reported that Trump “fumes that he does not get the credit he thinks he deserves from the media or the allegiance from fellow Republican leaders he says he is owed.” In May, the Chicago Tribune wrote, “Trump, for his part, largely believes his recent string of mishaps are not substantive but simply errors of branding and public relations, according to people close to him and the White House.”
The president also has a tendency to make factually incorrect statements seemingly off the top of his head, making it hard to know whether he is aware they are false, much like the tax-rate claim. During the health-care debate, he seemed often unaware of the details of the various plans he was supporting, expressing shock at what they did or simply claiming they did something else entirely. Other things are vague unto meaninglessness: What can it mean for Trump to say, “I’ve turned West Virginia around”?
Being misinformed is always a risk for a president. The Oval Office is an information bubble, and staffers have some perverse incentives to keep damaging information from the chief executive. In Trump’s case, both of these tendencies are exaggerated. He has shown himself unable to sort reliable sources of information from dreck, often falling for fake reports. Meanwhile, as The Washington Post reports, aides feed him positive information to help control his moods: “One defining feature of managing Trump is frequent praise, which can leave his team in what seems to be a state of perpetual compliments. The White House pushes out news releases overflowing with top officials heaping flattery on Trump.”
Certainly, Trump is unusual in being willing to fight this fight. Other presidents, faced with firestorms of controversy, tend to lie low and hope the moment passes. Trump’s answer is to call a press conference and plead his case, going around his communications staff. The condolence flap shows the risks of that approach.
Yet the idea that Trump believes all, or even most of this stuff, is difficult to credit. Even as he dismisses unflattering polling, he has revealed himself in the past as an assiduous pollwatcher. Nor can he believe that his relationship with McConnell is as good as he claims, having spent months deriding him. It can’t be a coincidence that Trump’s habit of protesting too much seems to coincide closely with low points; the worse things are, the harder he spins. The Dow only comes up in presidential tweets when the other indices of presidential success are down.
Instead, Trump’s PR strategy seems to resemble the way he approached his real-estate business: a mix of bluster, misdirection, and fake-it-’til-you-make-it. The tendency to simply make things up is most evident at Trump’s eponymous tower, which he boasts has 68 stories—when, in fact, it only has 58. But another example came in the recent story of how the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office investigated, and then decided under murky circumstances not to charge, Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump Jr. for making false representations about the beleaguered Trump Soho development.
The siblings claimed that the tower had sold 31, then 55, then 60 percent of units. As ProPublica and The New Yorker reported, “None of that was true. According to a sworn affidavit by a Trump partner filed with the New York attorney general’s office, by March of 2010, almost two years after the press conference, only 15.8 percent of units had been sold.”
In trying to convince the prosecutor not to charge them, Trumps’ lawyers effectively argued that such statements were an essential part of doing business in real estate:
The defense team acknowledged that the Trumps made some exaggerated statements in order to sell the units. But this was mere “puffery”— harmless exaggeration. Such language, they contended, didn’t amount to criminal conduct. The Trumps weren’t selling useless swampland in Florida. The condos existed. And the buyers’ money was in escrow the entire time.
They’d learned the trade from their father, of course. He has repeatedly shown a willingness to lie about things in the service of trying to make them happen. Why would he change now? As Senator Bob Corker is only the latest to realize, Trump has not changed his character or approach since becoming president.
There is a third possibility, which is that Trump sees no meaningful difference between the two. In The Art of the Deal, he introduced the oxymoronic concept of “truthful hyperbole,” suggesting that one could both be not telling the truth and also, somehow, be trying to convey the truth … even while employing untruths to sway someone’s opinion. Trump discussed a similar idea during a 2007 deposition, in which he explained, “You always want to put the best foot forward.”
“I try and be truthful,” Trump said. “I’m no different from a politician running for office.” Truer words may have never been spoken—at least not by him.


On Thursday morning, I planned to write a pointed screed decrying President Trump’s propensity to view the military community as a problem he can buy off with a check. Then, on Thursday afternoon, White House Chief of Staff John Kelly, himself a Gold Star father, decried the noxious politicization of the deaths of servicemembers and how we treat their families in the aftermath. His remarks gave me pause, as they were meant to.
“Let’s not let this maybe last thing that’s held sacred in our society, a young man, young woman, going out and giving his or her life for our country, let’s … keep that sacred” he implored, lamenting the ugly and voyeuristic events of the past week.
The Anguish of John Kelly
Who better to set the protocol and define the limits of this sacred space than a father who lost his son in Afghanistan? Unless you’ve walked in his shoes, don’t ask questions.
Don’t question the military response, Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis said regarding the tragic ambush in Niger that left four soldiers dead. We can’t always tell you the numbers, he said earlier this month regarding the number of troops in Afghanistan, and, earlier in Iraq and Syria. I think it’s appalling, Kelly commented, regarding Representative Frederica Wilson listening in on Trump’s call to Sergeant La David Johnson’s widow and then sharing her sense that it was disrespectful. There’s been total silence from the White House for a week regarding the deaths of four soldiers in Niger, and the administration remains relatively silent regarding the scope of their mission, and its own counter-ISIS and Afghanistan strategies.
I am not a member of a Gold Star family, or a veteran. I spent years as a civilian in the Department of Defense, and yes, I know Gold Star families. But these facts don’t make me more qualified than anyone else to note that Kelly has only defined part of what makes these men and women sacred. Who am I to contradict him? It makes me terribly uncomfortable to do so. But one fundamental part of honoring the sacrifice of servicemembers is understanding why they were put at risk, and demanding that those who did so hold themselves to account.
These questions are inherently political, and raising them in conjunction with the immediate loss of a Gold Star family becomes easily politicized and ugly. We have centuries of stories of shying away from such introspection: If you don’t support the war, you don’t support the troops. Questioning why they died tarnishes their loss.
By focusing on keeping the sacrifice of a Gold Star family sacred, I think Kelly missed the point of this last week’s distress. There is literally nothing a president can say or do to salve the grief of a parent or spouse who has lost a loved one serving their country. Nothing can rightly acknowledge or even measure the hole in their lives—no phone call or letter, not the benefits or life insurance provided by the Department of Defense, not even a personal $25,000 check offered to a grieving father. We shouldn’t fool ourselves into thinking there is a “right” way to mitigate their loss, though that shouldn’t stop us from trying.
The commander in chief and his key advisers have a duty to these men and women in uniform. The practice is complicated, but at heart it is simple: to do their utmost to define missions that will entail risks, but which have a purpose that the people in these positions own. When the worst happens, their job is to take on the pain of grieving families as an accounting for the decisions they made that cost the lives of young Americans.
I have no expectation that Trump will know what to say in the face of a grieving mother or husband. I wouldn’t either. I do, however, want to know that he feels that loss and has put the full weight of the U.S. government into considering why that risk was appropriate. Americans’ right to that knowledge is part of what makes the men and women who give that last full measure of devotion sacred. And for the moment, I have little confidence that he understands any of this.
Perhaps the public outcry is simply making the president a scapegoat for grief and responsibility that the American people, sheltered from nearly two decades of war, don’t want to feel. But Trump, like many Americans, seems deeply uncomfortable with this duty. He has not yet visited a war zone, and the litany of dismissive and insulting statements he has made about servicemen and women has almost lost its shock value. His administration has made little progress in making a public case for its strategies in Afghanistan and in Iraq and Syria. His general approach to the military is delegation and deference.
And this week, we learned he met a father’s grief with the promise of a check. That may reflect a common impulse. Americans all want to honor and compensate the military; nothing is too good for our troops. But much of the public is also apparently happy with the arrangement that leaves their sacrifices out of sight, and excuses their children from service.
Understanding the incalculable price that such families have been asked to pay on our behalf takes effort. Bob Gates has written and spoken movingly about his nightly ritual of penning condolence letters while Secretary of Defense.
I was determined that these young people would not just become statistics for me. And so I started out by handwriting parts of the—of the condolence letters. And then—and even then that wasn’t enough, I felt. And I so then I started asking that every time one of these packets came to me, that it’d have a picture of the—of the soldier or sailor, airman or Marine who’d been killed, along with the hometown news so that I knew, you know, what their coaches and their parents and their brothers and sisters and teachers were saying about them, so I felt like I had some personal knowledge about each one of them. And I would write those condolence letters every evening … In those evening sessions, writing the condolence letters, there probably wasn’t a single evening in nearly 4 1/2 years when I didn’t—when I didn’t weep.
These letters may have provided some comfort to their recipients, but as Kelly pointed out, the most important calls and notes came from the friends and fellow servicemembers of their son. The larger objective of the practice, I believe, was to give each death meaning, and even, to Gates, accountability. He signed the orders that sent them to their final resting place.
When I worked for Gates, I sat just down the hall from the young woman who put together these packets for him and occasionally saw her crying at her desk as she performed this awful duty. It was a keen reminder of the real consequences of these operations undertaken for our “national interest,” now underway for 16 years. I wish she would have placed those packets, pointedly, on my desk, on everyone else’s on that corridor, and on the nightly news, and started, rather than closed, conversations on these conflicts.
I worry that Kelly and Mattis, by making the loss of troops so sacred and dissuading hard questions about the objective of the risks they took, are widening the divide they so often lament between those who serve and those totally disconnected with the military. That would be ironic and sad, given that they are better positioned than almost anyone else to aid in closing this gap. Kelly’s decision to only accept questions from reporters who know Gold Star families was unsettling, later explained by a White House official: “What he wanted to convey … is that this was a serious time, and attacks were being lobbed that were not factual or fair—from people unqualified to make them and who had not suffered.” Did he make a point? Yes. But placing restrictions on the ability to ask questions about the rationale for a servicemember’s mission that cost his life makes that loss less sacred, not more.
I still have many questions. I want to be sure that the president does not treat the death of a servicemember who knew he or she might die like writing off a cost of doing business. I want him to affirm that he sees the risks men and women in uniform take on behalf of the United States as a matter that accrues most to him, regardless of their success or failures. I want to believe that he does not see military families as a problem he can keep quiet with a check. I want to be assured that he does not only pause to consider the cost of today’s wars when someone dies. And I want him to be able to explain, if asked, why they died.
Two weeks after the deaths in Niger, as my colleague Philip Carter notes, we still lack any real explanation of what they were doing there at all. “It would add insult to injury,” he writes, “for us to let this outrage blind ourselves to the bigger questions about how and why these troops died.”


Updated on October 22, 2017.
The Trump administration is scrambling to defend the president’s characterization of his communications with grieving military families, including rush-delivering letters from the president to the families of servicemembers killed months ago. Donald Trump falsely claimed this week that he had called “virtually” all fallen servicemembers’ families since his time in office.
Timothy Eckels Sr. hadn’t heard anything from President Trump since his son Timothy Eckels Jr. was killed after a collision involving the USS John S. McCain on August 21. But then, on October 20, two days into the controversy over the president’s handling of a condolence call with an American soldier’s widow, Eckels Sr. received a United Parcel Service package dated October 18 with a letter from the White House.
“Honestly, I feel the letter is reactionary to the media storm brewing over how these things have been handled,” Eckels told The Atlantic. “I’ve received letters from McCain, Mattis, and countless other officials before his. I wasn’t sure if the fact that the accident that caused Timothy’s death has still yet to officially have the cause determined played into the timing of our president’s response.”
He added that the letter “seemed genuine and even mentioned Timothy’s siblings.” It was “a respectful letter,” Eckels wrote. The family of Corey Ingram, another Navy systems technician who died in the collision on the USS John McCain, also confirmed to The Atlantic they received a rush-delivered letter from the White House on October 20. A third family, of another sailor who perished in the accident, John M. Hoagland III, said they, too, received a rush-delivery letter this week. A fourth family, that of Allen Levi Stigler Jr., who died in Iraq on August 13, also received a letter on Friday.
It was not immediately clear whether White House condolence letters are typically sent via this expedited shipping. But one former official who served in both Republican and Democratic administrations said that it would be unusual for condolence letters to be sent weeks after the fact, because they were seen as "priority correspondence, to get to the family in a week or two if possible."
The White House declined to address The Atlantic’s specific questions about how Trump has—or has not—comforted grieving military families. “The president and the nation are grateful for the service and sacrifice of our fallen American heroes,” a White House official told The Atlantic.“We have addressed the president’s outreach to the families extensively and out of respect, we are not going to comment further.”
The controversy began with a Rose Garden press conference on Monday, October 16, in which Trump was asked why he had not spoken out about the deaths of four U.S. servicemembers in Niger on October 4. He responded by falsely suggesting that previous presidents hadn’t made personal calls to the families of slain U.S. servicemembers. The next day, he followed up by claiming that he had called “virtually” all fallen servicemembers’ families, which was also false.
In the past week, The Atlantic made contact with 12 families who had been identified as having lost kin serving in the military since January. Along with those contacted by other news outlets like The Washington Post and the Associated Press, about 25 of the 46 families have been reached. Of those 25, a plurality—11 families—said they had received neither a call nor a letter from the president. Nine confirmed that they had received personal calls from the president. Members of four families said they had received a letter, but no call. And members of the remaining family were contacted by the White House, but declined to meet with the president.
According to Roll Call, by 5 p.m. on October 17, the White House had asked and received information from the Pentagon that indicated “senior White House aides were aware on the day the president made the statement that it was not accurate—but that they should try to make it accurate as soon as possible, given the gathering controversy.”
Especially during wartime, presidents are not expected to personally call the surviving family members of every fallen service member. More than 4,000 American servicemembers have died in the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yet the firestorm around Trump’s claims about his contacts with military families set off an effort within his administration to shore up the president’s claims.
On Tuesday, Trump called the families of four men who died in Niger on October 4, after promising to do so in the Monday press briefing. Then, along with the rush-delivered letters to the families of Eckels, Hoagland, Ingram, and Stigler, Trump also mailed a $25,000 check on Wednesday to a grieving father to whom he had promised money in a June phone call, the father told The Washington Post.
The money, the rush-delivered letters, and the recent phone calls all represent a sharp change for an administration whose outreach to bereaved military families had appeared to slow since June.
Two families of soldiers killed in Afghanistan on August 2, Christopher Harris and Jonathon Hunter, were told they should expect a call and never received one. The family of Sergeant Roshain Euvince Brooks, who died in Iraq in August, did not receive a call.
Several other families have talked to other news outlets about their experiences. Jasmin William Bays, the wife of Sergeant William Bays, received a call from Trump, and wrote on Facebook that “the President’s words to me were kind, genuine and sincere. His words helped me heal during my time of grief.” Other recent presidents have not personally called all military families who have lost relatives, but both presidents Obama and Bush occasionally made such calls.
This all comes after a turbulent week, set off by Trump’s claim to have been more involved than previous presidents in contacting military families. The president even involved his chief of staff, John Kelly, himself a retired Marine general who lost a son in the war in Afghanistan, in a feud with Florida Representative Frederica Wilson, who said that the president’s outreach to a slain U.S. servicemember’s family had been gone poorly.
Wilson said a call made to one of families of the four men slain in Niger in early October, Sergeant La David Johnson, ended with the family feeling disrespected. Wilson, a friend of the Johnson family, was present when the call was made. Johnson’s mother, Cowanda Jones-Johnson, confirmed Wilson’s account, telling The Washington Post that the president had  shown “disrespect” for her son and family with statements that her son “must have known what he signed up for.” Many questions remain about how Johnson became separated from the other members of his team.
Some families expressed that they were “disappointed” they had not received a call or letter from Trump, but still others questioned the relevance of the president’s actions in the larger scheme of things.
“If that letter or that phone call could bring my son back, I would run from here on foot to Washington, D.C., to get that letter,” Sheila Murphy, the mother of Army Specialist Etienne Murphy, who was killed in Syria in May, told MSNBC. “But right now it really doesn’t matter who did the greatest thing.”


ANAHEIM, Calif.—Breitbart News chairman Steve Bannon continued his campaign against the Republican establishment in a speech to the California Republican Party convention on Friday—while also calling for greater unity within the party. His targets included the current party leadership, but also the previous Republican president of the United States.
Bannon, who rarely spoke publicly during his time as White House chief strategist, has made a series of appearances in recent weeks promoting primary Republican senators in the 2018 election cycle. Boosted by former judge Roy Moore’s Alabama Senate primary win over the establishment’s (and President Trump’s) pick Luther Strange, Bannon is spearheading an intra-party war with the aim of removing Mitch McConnell as majority leader. He has said that he wants to challenge every Republican incumbent apart from Ted Cruz. He personally campaigned for Moore and for Kelli Ward, who is running a primary challenge to Jeff Flake in Arizona. Last week he promised a “season of war” against the establishment in a speech to the Values Voter Summit in Washington.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
“Victory begets victory,” Bannon told the crowd at the Anaheim Marriott in a wide-ranging speech that touched on everything from Hillbilly Elegy author J.D. Vance (Bannon’s a fan) to the “Fourth Turning” to Andrew Sullivan’s latest piece (Bannon’s also a fan). And after existing on the political fringes for most of his career, Bannon has finally notched some victories: His speech on Friday lingered on Trump’s election and on Moore’s win. “I was on the opposite side of the football with the president,” Bannon noted. “I think the president got some bad information.”
Though Trump publicly—albeit half-heartedly—asked for Bannon to calm down his campaign against Republican senators last week during a press conference with McConnell, Bannon said he is acting as Trump’s “wingman.” He launched a broadside against George W. Bush, who gave a speech rebuking Trumpian ideology last week. Members of the audience booed at the mention of Bush’s name.
“It’s clear he doesn’t understand what he’s talking about,” Bannon said, “Just like it was when he was president of the United States.”
“There has not been a more destructive presidency than George Bush’s,” Bannon said. The reaction to this line was more muted, with only scattered applause. One Republican strategist who spoke on condition of anonymity because of his involvement in some races in California told me that at his table only three of seven people applauded. “This was a populist speech, this was not a Republican Party speech,” the strategist said. “Nobody in this room had ever heard a speech like this before.”
Bannon tailored his speech to the California audience, warning darkly of the power of Silicon Valley, which he cast as the “beating heart” of the resistance to President Trump.
He even warned that Silicon Valley might engineer a secession attempt, saying that if California Republicans do not roll back the law that has made the state a “sanctuary state” for immigrants, “10 or 15 years from now the folks in Silicon Valley and the progressive left in this state are gonna try to secede from the Union.”
“We don’t have a problem with ideas,” Bannon said of Republicans. “We have a problem with understanding how to win. It is about winning, nothing else matters.”
Bannon has connections in conservative circles in California dating to his years as a film producer and banker in Hollywood. Los Angeles is where he met the late Andrew Breitbart, to whom he lent office space in the early years of Breitbart News.
California politics are dominated by the Democratic party, though the Republicans hold several key congressional seats. Seven of these 14 Republican incumbents’ districts were won by Hillary Clinton in 2016. The last Republican statewide office-holder, former Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, finished his last term in 2011.
But outside of electoral politics, California has been home to some of the most influential people on the right in recent years, including people like Breitbart, Ann Coulter, and White House domestic policy advisor Stephen Miller, who is close to Bannon. (Miller attended a party for Laura Ingraham’s new book held at the Breitbart “embassy” in Washington on Thursday night, where Bannon hailed him as “the last one behind enemy lines.”)
Apart from Bannon, few big names on the right were in attendance; at one point during his speech, Bannon gave a shoutout to one of them, tax-cut guru Grover Norquist, who is speaking at the convention on Sunday.
“I thought it was very interesting for [Jim] Brulte, the party chairman here, to make this pick,” Norquist said, citing Bannon’s “interesting non-consensus presentation at a party convention.” Bannon “wasn’t here to ra-ra for the president. It was sort of a not-too-veiled criticism of the president. Also a veiled criticism of how we’ve been doing things up till now.”
Despite his internecine war, Bannon told the crowd that in 2016 “we had to put our differences aside in order to win” and called for greater party unity in campaigns and in government. The unity message stood in sharp contrast to his criticisms of McConnell, Bush, and Karl Rove, who has written harshly in the Wall Street Journal of Bannon and who Bannon said he would not go after because he “doesn’t like punching down.”
Norquist said that although Bannon’s primary onslaught will be messy and cause Republican groups to have to spend more money, “half of the people on [Bannon’s] list are the completely consensus position in their Senate races.”
“His message is not off necessarily, it’s parallel to what the House and Senate are doing,” Norquist said. “It’s parallel to what the president wants. If the takeaway is go out there and get active and work on campaigns and work on stuff, that’s a very traditional Republican Party speech.”


With the cancellation of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, an estimated 200,000 children are at risk of losing their parents.
In September, the Trump administration announced it was rescinding DACA pending a six-month delay. The program is an Obama-era initiative that shields undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children from deportation, and allows them to work legally in the country. Unless the Republican-controlled Congress passes a law granting them legal status, they could soon be subject to deportation. That uncertainty has instilled fear among many of the nearly 700,000 DACA recipients, but particularly those who are parents of U.S. citizens.
The White House Lays Out Its Conditions for Extending DACA
“It’s been really tough, it’s been a rollercoaster of emotion,” said Eliana Fernandez, a DACA recipient and mother of two children, ages 10 and 5. “What’s going to happen with my life, with my work, with my children? I’ve been trying to process everything.”
The vast majority of DACA expirations will come after March 5, 2018. According to the Department of Homeland Security, 275,344 individuals will have their work permits expire next year and 321,920 work permits are set to run out from January through August 2019. That means that hundreds of thousands of immigrants will suddenly be eligible for deportation and lose their ability to work legally in country.
Though often described as “kids,” a majority of DACA beneficiaries are in their 20s—and some of them have children of their own. A recent study conducted by Tom Wong of the University of California at San Diego along with the Center for American Progress, National Immigration Law Center, and United We Dream found that 25.7 percent of DACA recipients have a child who is a U.S. citizen. “If extrapolated to the total population of DACA recipients, this suggests that at least 200,000 U.S. citizen children live in the U.S. currently who have a DACA recipient for a parent,” Wong told told The Daily Beast.
While DACA was always supposed to be temporary, the ultimate outcome was meant to be legal status for its recipients, not deportation. Lawyers and immigrant-rights groups are working to address that by helping DACA parents map out what few options they have, and prepare for the possibility of deportation, in anticipation of their permits expiring. The National Immigration Law Center hosted a call this month to discuss the impact of terminating the program on the children of beneficiaries. “Many young people with DACA are parents, the majority to U.S. citizen kids. These children should be entitled to the same rights and opportunities as any other child,” said Marielena Hincapié, the executive director of the center.
Trying to obtain legal status is out of the question for many DACA recipients. The process to becoming a lawful permanent resident requires individuals to have a qualifying petitioner and to have entered—and resided in—the country legally. The latter requirement bars a majority of DACA beneficiaries from obtaining legal status since they came into the U.S. illegally to begin with or they overstayed their visas.
Some DACA recipients might be eligible for cancellation of removal, which would shield them from deportation and provide them a green card. “What you have to prove is that you’ve been in the United States for 10 years, that you have a good moral character and your deportation would result in extreme, unusual, and exceptional hardship to a qualifying relative. It can be a child, parent, or spouse,” said Michelle Saenz-Rodriguez, an immigration lawyer in Dallas, Texas. Chances of qualifying are slim, however: Immigration judges are only permitted to grant 4,000 cancellations of removal per fiscal year. DACA parents are also having to consider power of attorney, the act of appointing someone to manage private affairs in their absence.
Saenz-Rodriguez’s law office has received five or six queries per week about alternatives since the administration’s announcement to terminate DACA. “I think all the advocates are looking at whatever mechanisms are available,” Saenz-Rodriguez said. “The bottom line is: If there were some other form of relief, most DACA recipients would’ve already done it and been in the process.”
DACA recipients are overwhelmingly from mixed-status families: some relatives are undocumented while others are U.S. citizens. DACA opened the door to opportunities, like earning a legal income, providing its beneficiaries with a sense of security.
For Fernandez, an immigration case manager for Make the Road New York, a Latino advocacy organization, DACA allowed her to provide for her family. “I, thankfully to DACA, was able to graduate [from] college, work in the line of work like I always wanted to do. I became a homeowner,” she told me. Now, Fernandez, among other DACA parents, is having to grapple with how she’ll take care of her family and what to do if she’s detained.
Trump has said that DACA recipients, all of whom must have a clean criminal record to qualify, are not enforcement priorities: “We are focused on criminals, security threats, recent border-crossers, visa overstays, and repeat violators. I have advised the Department of Homeland Security that DACA recipients are not enforcement priorities unless they are criminals, are involved in criminal activity, or are members of a gang,” he said in a statement.
But according to Immigration and Customs Enforcement figures, there was an increase in “non-criminal” arrests between January 22 and April 29 compared to the same period in 2016, around 10,800 in 2017 to 4,200 in 2016.
Karina Velasco, a DACA recipient and mother of a two-year-old girl, has had discussions with her husband about the possibility of being detained. “We discussed what would happen if a raid happens. We know that Immigration and Customs Enforcement is not going to honor DACA,” she told me. “We’re working on a plan: What’s going to happen? I don’t want my daughter to not have her mother; I don’t want my husband to not have his wife.” Velasco is in the process of adjusting her status to become a lawful permanent resident.
Concerns about what may happen to an undocumented parent can take an emotional toll on a child and hinder their integration into society. “Although they have a secure status, the constant fear of losing a parent or coming home and not knowing if your parent is going to be here is something we’ve seen rise,” said Sally Kinoshita, the deputy director of the Immigrant Legal Resource Center, which frequently works with undocumented parents with U.S. citizen children. Kinoshita added that over time, some DACA recipients have adjusted their status to become lawful permanent residents.
Still, the Trump administration’s decision to end DACA effects hundreds of thousands of its beneficiaries, and as many prepare to face the risk of deportation again, they’ll also have to wrestle with what comes next for their families, including their American children.


According to a spate of recent reports, accounts tied to the St. Petersburg-based Internet Research Agency—a Russian “troll factory”— used social media and Google during the 2016 electoral campaign to deepen political and racial tensions in the United States. The trolls, according to an interview with the Russian TV network TV Rain, were directed to focus their tweets and comments on socially divisive issues, like guns. But another consistent theme has been Russian trolls focusing on issues of race. Some of the Russian ads placed on Facebook apparently targeted Ferguson and Baltimore, which were rocked by protests after police killings of unarmed black men; another showed a black woman firing a rifle. Other ads played on fears of illegal immigrants and Muslims, and groups like Black Lives Matter.
Except for the technology used, however, these tactics are not exactly new. They are natural outgrowths of a central component of covert influence campaigns, like the one Russia launched against the United States during the 2016 election: make discord louder; divide and conquer. “Covert influence campaigns don’t create divisions on the ground, they amplify divisions on the ground,” says Michael Hayden, who ran the NSA under Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush and then became CIA director. During the Cold War, the Kremlin similarly sought to plant fake news and foment discontent, but was limited by the low-tech methods available at the time. “Before, the Soviets would plant information in Indian papers and hope it would get picked up by our papers,” says John Sipher, who ran the CIA’s Russia desk during George W. Bush’s first term. The Soviets planted misinformation about the AIDs epidemic as a Pentagon creation, according to Sipher, as well as the very concept of a nuclear winter. “Now, because of the technology, you can jump right in,” Sipher says.
Neither is playing on racial tensions inside the United States a new Russian tactic. In fact, it predates even the Cold War. In 1932, for instance, Dmitri Moor, the Soviet Union’s most famous propaganda poster artist, created a poster that cried, “Freedom to the prisoners of Scottsboro!” It was a reference to the Scottsboro Boys, nine black teenagers who were falsely accused of raping two white women in Alabama, and then repeatedly—wrongly—convicted by all-white Southern juries. The case became a symbol of the injustices of the Jim Crow South, and the young Soviet state milked it for all the propagandistic value it could.
It was part of a plan put in place in 1928 by the Comintern—the Communist International, whose mission was to spread the communist revolution around the world. The plan initially called for recruiting Southern blacks and pushing for “self-determination in the Black Belt.” By 1930, the Comintern had escalated the aims of its covert mission, and decided to work toward establishing a separate black state in the South, which would provide it with a beachhead for spreading the revolution to North America.
The Soviets also exploited the oppression of Southern blacks for their own economic benefit. It was the height of the Great Depression, and the Soviet Union was positioning itself not only as a workers’ utopia, but as a racial utopia as well, one where ethnic, national, and religious divisions didn’t exist. In addition to luring thousands of white American workers, it brought over African-American workers and sharecroppers with the promise of the freedom to work and live unburdened by the violent restrictions of Jim Crow. In return, they would help the Soviets build their fledgling cotton industry in Central Asia. Several hundred answered the call, and though many eventually went back—or died in the Gulag—some of their descendants remain in Russia. One of Russia’s best-known television hosts, for instance, is Yelena Khanga, the granddaughter of Oliver Golden, an agronomist from Tuskeegee University who moved with his communist Jewish-American wife to Uzbekistan to develop the cotton industry there.
The beginning of the Cold War coincided with the beginning of the civil rights movement, and the two became intertwined—both in how the Soviets used the racial strife, and how the Cold War propelled the cause of civil rights forward. “Early on in the Cold War, there was a recognition that the U.S. couldn’t lead the world if it was seen as repressing people of color,” says Mary Dudziak, a legal historian at Emory, whose book Cold War Civil Rights is the seminal work on the topic. When, in September 1957, the Arkansas governor Orval Faubus deployed the National Guard to keep nine black students from integrating the Central High School in Little Rock, the standoff was covered by newspapers around the world, many of which noted the discrepancy between the values America expressed and hoped to spread around the world, and how it implemented them at home.
The Soviets, again, took full advantage of the opportunity. Komsomolskaya Pravda, the newspaper of the communist youth organization in the USSR, ran a sensational story, complete with photographs, about the conflict under the headline, “Troops Advance Against Children!” Izvestia, the second main Soviet daily, also extensively covered the Little Rock crisis, noting at one point that “right now, behind the facade of the so-called ‘American democracy,’ a tragedy is unfolding which cannot but arouse ire and indignation in the heart of every honest man.” The story went on:
The patrons of Governor Faubus ... who dream of nooses and dynamite for persons with different-colored skins, advocates of hooliganism who throw rocks at defenseless Negro children—these gentlemen have the audacity to talk about “democracy” and speak as supporters of “freedom.” In fact it is impossible to imagine a greater insult to democracy and freedom than an American diplomat's speech from the tribunal of the U.S. General Assembly, a speech in which Washington was pictured as the “champion” of the rights of the Hungarian people.
The point then, as it was in 2016, was to discredit the American system, to keep the Soviets (and, later, Russians) loyal to their own system instead of hungering for Western-style democracy. But it was also used in Soviet propaganda around the world for a similar purpose. “This is a principal Soviet propaganda theme,” says Dudziak of the Soviet messaging at the time. “What’s described as communist propaganda that circulated in India overplays the story sometimes but also very maudlin stories about things that actually happened. Sometimes, in Pravda, all they needed to do was to reprint something that appeared in Time Magazine. Just the facts would themselves inflame international opinion. On top of that, the Soviets would push the envelope.”
This came at a critical time for time for the United States. After World War II, the U.S. was a new global power locked in an ideological struggle with the Soviet Union. As the United States tried to convince countries to join its sphere by taking up democracy and liberal values, the U.S. government was competing with the Soviets in parts of the world where images of white cops turning fire hoses and attack dogs on black protesters did not sit well—especially considering that this was coinciding with the wave African countries declaring independence from white colonial rulers. “Here at the United Nations I can see clearly the harm that the riots in Little Rock are doing to our foreign relations,” Henry Cabot Lodge, then the U.S. ambassador to the UN, wrote to President Eisenhower in 1957. “More than two-thirds of the world is non-white and the reactions of the representatives of these people is easy to see. I suspect that we lost several votes on the Chinese communist item because of Little Rock.”
“The Russian objective then was to disrupt U.S. international relations and undermine U.S. power in the world, and undermine the appeal of U.S. democracy to other countries,” says Dudziak, and Lodge was reflecting a central concern at the State Department at the time: The Soviet propaganda was working. American diplomats were reporting back both their chagrin and the difficulty of preaching democracy when images of the violence around the civil rights movement were reported all over the world, and amplified by Soviet or communist propaganda. On a trip to Latin America, then-Vice President Richard Nixon and his wife were met with protestors chanting, “Little Rock! Little Rock!” Secretary of State John Foster Dulles complained that “this situation was ruining our foreign policy. The effect of this in Asia and Africa will be worse for us than Hungary was for the Russians.” Ultimately, he prevailed on Eisenhower to insert a passage into his national address on Little Rock that directly addressed the discrepancy that Soviet propaganda was highlighting—and spinning as American hypocrisy. Whenever the Soviet Union was criticized for its human rights abuses, the rebuttal became, “And you lynch Negroes.”
Moscow never abandoned these tactics, which became known as “whataboutism,” even after the Soviet Union collapsed. Russian propaganda outlets like Russia Today—now known as RT—have always focused on domestic strife in the United States, be it homelessness or Occupy Wall Street or the Ferguson protests. The Facebook ads focusing on divisive issues like Black Lives Matter are just another page from the old Soviet handbook. The difference this time is that the Russians got better at penetrating the American discussions on these fraught subjects. They became a more effective bellows, amplifying the fire Americans built.
The good news, though, is that America can do things to disarm the propaganda. In the 1950s and 60s, for example, this was one of the reasons that American presidents pushed through various civil rights victories, culminating in the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act. This time, Americans can stop blaming the Russians and look at ourselves for what we do to fan the flames—to a far greater extent than the Russians ever could or do. “If there’s anyone to blame, it’s us,” says Sipher. “If we accept the stoking, it’s our fault.”


President Trump pledged to pass the “biggest” tax cut in American history the day after the Senate passed a $4 trillion budget paving the way for tax reform. White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders defended Chief of Staff John Kelly after his remarks criticizing Representative Frederica Wilson, who said Trump had disrespected a Gold Star family during a condolence call. “I think that if you want to get into a debate with a four-star Marine general, I think that's something highly inappropriate,” Sanders told reporters. Three white nationalists were charged with attempted murder after police said one of them shot at protesters after a speech by Richard Spencer, the leader of the so-called alt-right movement, in Florida on Thursday. NBC News reported that the attack in Niger that killed four U.S. servicemen was partly due to a “massive intelligence failure.”
Fired Up, Ready to Go: Stumping for gubernatorial candidate Ralph Northam in Richmond, former President Obama stuck to his old rallying cry of hope and change. But will that message have the same effect on voters in Trump’s America? (McKay Coppins)
A Significant Victory: The recapturing of Raqqa, Syria, doesn’t mean ISIS is gone—but it does mean that the group can no longer claim it has built a paradise on earth. (Graeme Wood)
He Can’t Handle the Truth: President Trump loves discussing violence and war, but his apparent refusal to take seriously the human consequences of such violence might have real consequences for America’s foreign policy. (Peter Beinart)
Why Do Happy People Cheat?: "Infidelity," Esther Perel writes in our October issue, "happens in bad marriages and in good marriages. It happens even in open relationships where extramarital sex is carefully negotiated beforehand. The freedom to leave or divorce has not made cheating obsolete." Adultery is as ancient as marriage, and as contemporary relationships have evolved, Perel writes, the causes and consequences of infidelity have much to teach us about the nature of commitment. In this episode of Radio Atlantic, Perel talks with our hosts about some of those lessons, culled from numerous sessions counseling couples as a psychotherapist.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

What to Watch: On Thursday, Senate Republicans approved a budget that will pave the way to accomplishing tax reform. Here’s what you need to know about the fiscal blueprint, the deficit, and how Senator Bob Corker feels about it. (Brian Faler, Politico)
A Preview?: During Thursday’s White House press briefing, Masha Gessen describes how Chief of Staff John Kelly gave Americans a taste of what a military coup might look like. (The New Yorker)
‘Acting White’: Conservatism used to be about taking responsibility for your actions, argues Kevin D. Williamson, but in the age of Donald Trump, it’s become a “white-minstrel show.” (National Review)
Inside Facebook: Here’s how the company’s employees feel about its role in the 2016 presidential election—and the subsequent investigations by Congress and the special counsel. (Charlie Warzel, BuzzFeed)
A Call With the President: Natasha De Alencar, whose husband was a U.S. serviceman killed in Afghanistan, shared a video of her conversation with President Trump that she described as “a moment of niceness that we needed.” (Thomas Johnson, The Washington Post)
Women in Prison: Oklahoma has the highest rate of female incarceration in the United States. In this short documentary, two reporters investigate why. (The Center for Investigative Reporting)
The Atlantic’s Michelle Cottle reported on Monday that younger politicians are growing frustrated with what they view as out-of-touch lawmakers clinging to power by continuing to serve well into their 70s and 80s. This week, we asked if you think there should be an age limit for politicians.
Cliff Wheeler says yes.
Like airline pilots and others that significantly affect the lives of others politicians should be required  to retire—when is subject to debate.  A prime example would be South Carolina senator Strom Thurmond in his last years.  While witnessing history  and hopefully gaining wisdom from years of service, there comes a time when our elders are just out of touch.
Gayle Golden has the opposite view:
Each candidate should be evaluated on their own merit and capacity to serve. Senator McCain's  remarks on the floor of the Senate and most powerfully at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia remind us of the importance of values, courage, integrity, and concern for others that have been the foundation of our democracy. We need some leaders whose experience provide the appropriate awareness of history as a context for current decision making.
But John McLeod believes the conversation should be about term limits, rather than age limits:  
I believe that any politician, no matter their party nor their intent for honest service, succumbs to both party and lobby pressures and becomes more concerned about being reelected than striving for good government. I am not sure what the limit should be be. Let’s say 12 years to start with—but there should be a time limit.
Thanks to everyone who submitted responses, and stay tuned for next week’s Question of the Week.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


The week of October 15 was supposed to be set aside to reflect on character.
“We celebrate National Character Counts Week because few things are more important than cultivating strong character in all our citizens, especially our young people,” President Trump said in declaring it. “The grit and integrity of our people, visible throughout our history, defines the soul of our Nation. This week, we reflect on the character of determination, resolve, and honor that makes us proud to be American.”
Trump's Unforced Error
There hasn’t been much time to talk about character. Instead, politics this week has been dominated by a peculiar scandal, beginning with one off-base remark from the president on Monday, that has managed to somehow leave everyone it touches worse off than they were at the start of the week—including the president, his chief of staff and spokeswoman, a member of Congress, and the family of a Special Forces soldier killed in Niger earlier this month.
The mess began on Monday, when Trump hastily called a press conference at the White House. The president made several noteworthy statements, some of them deeply dubious, but the one that grabbed the most attention was his unusual response to a question about the deaths of four U.S. soldiers in Niger in early October, about which the White House had been strangely quiet. For whatever reason, Trump took that as a personal attack on how effectively he had offered condolences to the families—not an attack that anyone had made, though one about which, as the next few days would show, Trump had reason to be defensive. Trump made two statements: First, that he had tried to call the family of every servicemember killed on his watch, and second, that previous presidents had not been so generous in their consolations.
The second of those claims was immediately debunked. Even within the course of the press conference, Trump was induced to tone it down, but the following day he doubled down on the claim, demanding that reporters ask whether President Obama had called John Kelly, the White House chief of staff and a former general, after his son was killed in Afghanistan. This was a surprising step because Kelly had in the past strenuously tried to avoid discussing his son’s death publicly. On the narrow question, Trump was truthful: Obama didn’t call Kelly, though Kelly himself later said this was not a sign of negligent consolation. The first of Trump’s claims was only a little slower to fall apart. Reporters found that Trump had not called around half of the families of fallen servicemembers; in some cases, he hadn’t even written, and in one, he had offered $25,000 but never delivered.
Meanwhile, Trump, now under pressure, hastened to call the family of Sergeant La David Johnson, one of the soldiers killed in Niger. The Tuesday night call didn’t go well. In an apparent attempt at honoring the call of duty soldiers feel, Trump told widow Myeshia Johnson that her husband knew what he was signing up for. His hamfisted condolence upset the family, and left them feeling “disrespected,” per Johnson’s mother. The contents of the call became public when Representative Frederica Wilson revealed them on TV.
That set off a new battle between Johnson and the administration. Trump called her account a “total fabrication” and said he had proof. Wilson stood by her story and told Trump to produce his proof. The White House, in a moment of either irony or disingenuousness, accused Wilson of “politicizing” an issue Trump had made a political centerpiece two days earlier.
Then on Thursday, Kelly showed up at the White House press briefing—an unusual appearance. During his time at the lectern, he defended Trump and took responsibility for his words to Myeshia Johnson—in effect acknowledging that Wilson’s account was basically right. He also slammed Wilson for politicizing the matter, overlooking his own boss’s central role. Finally, he delivered a broadside against Wilson, describing the dedication of an FBI building in 2015 and claiming the congresswoman—whom he called an “empty barrel”— had bragged about obtaining funding for the building from President Obama.
Wilson, known for her loud hats, is no shrinking violet, but as it turned out, Kelly’s version of what happened was not any more true than the things Trump had said earlier. Florida newspapers promptly turned up video that showed Kelly was wrong, and that Wilson had said nothing about funds—though she had noted her role in getting the Miramar, Florida, building named for two slain FBI officers.
It’s entirely possible that Kelly, who was clearly emotional about the question of Gold Star families, innocently misremembered what had happened in Florida. But rather than accepting that Kelly had been wrong, Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders tried to claim that he’d been right all along.
“General Kelly said he was stunned that Representative Wilson made remarks about her own action in Congress, including lobbying President Obama for funding. General Kelly said if you are making it about yourself you are an empty barrel,” Sanders said. “What General Kelly referenced yesterday, exactly what he said, there was a lot of grandstanding.”
Disturbingly, Sanders also suggested that it was inappropriate to even question Kelly, because of his military service. "If you want to get into debate with a four-star marine general, I think that is highly inappropriate," she said Friday. It’s easy to read warnings about military coups as hysterical, but the implications of Sanders’s statements are dark.
Sanders had a somewhat tone-deaf response to criticism of the president’s call to the Johnson family. “If the spirit in which those comments intended were misunderstood, that is very unfortunate,” she said. “But as the president has said, as General Kelly said, who has a very deep understanding of what that individual will be going through, his comments were very sympathetic, very respectful, and that was the spirit in which the president intended them. If they were taken any other way that's an unfortunate thing.”
So that was Character Counts Week. First the president, and then his chief of staff, made a series of easily disprovable false claims. Trump, by needlessly calling attention to his condolences to soldiers, revealed himself to have been negligent. Meanwhile, his untruths about both calling the soldiers and, based on Kelly’s account, the content of his call have managed to somehow even further degrade his honesty.
Kelly, too, has besmirched himself. Like H.R. McMaster, he entered the Trump administration enjoying nearly universal respect. As with McMaster, after his flimsy spin for Trump disclosing classified information in May, Kelly is demonstrating how quickly the job of defending Trump can destroy a carefully earned reputation. Between his own inaccurate account of the Florida event and Sanders’s doubling down on his version, reporters will now know just how seriously to take Kelly when the White House next sends him out to try to clean things up.
Sanders, with her dubious defense of Trump and Kelly and her “politicization” attack has also undermined her credibility. Wilson has been dragged into a public fight with the president. And perhaps most sadly, the Johnson family—whatever Trump’s intentions—has come out feeling disrespected.
“Character can be hard to define, but we see it in every day acts,” Trump wrote in his declaration for the week. “It is refined by our choices, large and small, and manifested in what we do when we think no one is paying attention.” In the days that followed, the nation has been treated to a display of how choices great and small, made when everyone is paying attention, can lead to fiasco.


Republican senators have found the secret to recovering the unity that’s eluded them on major legislation this year. All they had to do was sacrifice the deficit.
In narrowly approving a $4 trillion budget resolution on a 51-49 vote Thursday night, the GOP majority moved an important step closer to the major tax-cut plan that the party wants to enact by the end of the year. After this summer’s defeat on health care, Republicans momentarily eased doubts that they could ever get all of their members—everyone except Senator Rand Paul, at least—to agree to a complicated policy document.
But the unity, and the lure of tax cuts that drove it, come at a cost, both politically for Republicans and potentially for the nation’s debt. The Senate budget would allow Congress to reduce taxes by up to $1.5 trillion over the next decade without offsetting the cost. That had been in the Senate plan all along, but over the course of several hours on Thursday, Republicans had opportunities to shift course. Democrats offered amendments that would have forced Congress to work on a deficit-neutral tax plan, while Paul, the Kentucky spending hawk, tried to get his colleagues to reduce spending as well as taxes. The Senate rejected them all, choosing to forgo, for the moment, the more difficult decisions involved in picking what additional spending to cut or which taxes to raise.
“I will fight for the biggest, boldest tax cut we can pass, but I could not in good conscience vote for a budget that ignores spending caps that have been the law of the land for years and simply pretend it didn’t matter,” Paul said in a statement after the vote. “We can be for lower taxes AND spending restraint.”  
The GOP Tax Plan Inches Forward
Republicans in the Senate could have also accepted the more fiscally-conservative House budget, which passed earlier in the month and called for tax reform that would not add to the deficit. In a nod to the Freedom Caucus, the House plan also included an extra $200 billion in cuts to mandatory programs like food stamps. But with Republicans in a rush to get to the tax bill and needing to pass the budget first, the House is now more likely to accept the Senate plan than try to meet in the middle with a compromise.
“There was a time not long ago when many congressional Republicans demanded a budget that balanced within 10 years,” lamented Maya MacGuineas, the president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. “Today, with their vote, the Senate GOP has turned away from this goal, sprinting in the other direction and instead approving a plan that allows for $1.5 trillion in tax cuts to be added to the national debt.”
Democrats saw both hypocrisy and opportunity in the budget’s passage, hammering Republicans for proposing cuts to entitlement programs while advancing a tax plan that benefits the wealthy. “The same Republicans who criticized deficit spending under President Obama would run up the deficit by more than $1.5 trillion in order to benefit the richest Americans,” Senator Dianne Feinstein of California said Thursday.
Budget resolutions are not legislation signed by the president. They’re mostly non-binding, and the GOP plan does not preclude Republicans from pursuing deficit-neutral tax reform or seeking Democratic support. President Trump has made overtures to Democrats from states that he carried last year on the tax bill, but they have complained that the Republicans who are actually writing it are shutting them out of the process. Approval of the budget means Republicans can pass a tax bill with a simple majority in the Senate, bypassing a Democratic filibuster. But the budget’s passage doesn’t guarantee Republican unity on tax reform, and lawmakers in both chambers are still fighting over key details. “The sole purpose of this budget resolution was to kick-start the legislative process on tax reform,” said Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, who has warned that he won’t vote for a final tax bill that he sees as adding to the deficit.
Republicans in the Trump administration and on Capitol Hill have defended the budget by arguing that tax reform will generate economic growth that would refill the federal coffers, effectively paying for itself. But that line of thinking has generated more opposition within the GOP than it did when Congress passed budget-busting tax cuts under President George W. Bush in 2001 and 2003. The debate isn’t over, and it’ll likely be revived if and when Republicans unveil their tax bill. With the Senate’s approval of the budget resolution on Thursday, the party’s remaining deficit hawks have lost the first round.


RICHMOND, Va.— The event had all the trappings of a vintage Obama rally. There was the bouncy Motown soundtrack; the chants of “yes we can”; the call-and-response with a crowd of die-hards—Fired up, and ready to go!—for whom seeing Barack Obama in the flesh seemed to stir emotions akin to a religious experience.
And, of course, there was that hallmark of Obama’s rhetoric—audacious, unavoidable, dripping from every syllable of the former president’s speech: Hope.
“Look, I’ve been in this arena for a while,” Obama told a crowd of thousands at a campaign rally for Virginia gubernatorial candidate Ralph Northam Thursday night. American politics might be “depressing” now, “but what I also know is that as frustrated as you get … there are people all across this country who want to do things better.” After all, he reminded them, “I’ve seen the possibilities of our democracy.”
Obama’s return to the campaign trail Thursday, which included stops in New Jersey and Virginia, was timed to boost a pair of Democratic candidates in competitive races. But for a party in exile and a country in turmoil, the reemergence of a popular former president with a broad base of loyal supporters could have implications that reach far beyond two battleground states. What remains to be seen is whether the iconic message of hope and healing that propelled Obama to the presidency nearly a decade ago can still have anything like the same effect on the voters of Donald Trump’s America.
From the moment he stepped onto the stage at the 2004 Democratic convention, Obama has infused his speeches with a kind of defiant optimism. It is the signature trait of his oratory—maybe even of his entire presidency—and it’s part of what first made him such a phenomenon on the campaign trail. “In the unlikely story that is America,” he once said, in perhaps his most memorable speech, “there has never been anything false about hope.”
Of course, there were moments during the Obama presidency when that thesis was tested, and his buoyant, upbeat message didn’t always resonate perfectly with Americans. But trying to pull it off now—in the midst of what feels like a national nervous breakdown—is to risk coming off as downright delusional. No one in American politics is talking about hope and unity anymore. They are talking about resistance and conquest; victory and defeat; all or nothing, us or them, and to hell with anyone who picks the wrong side.
And yet, here was Barack Obama, in a Richmond convention center on a Thursday night in 2017, playing the old hits as if nothing at all had changed. His collar open, his smile broad, he reminisced warmly about the humble beginnings of his long-shot presidential bid, and reminded his audience of how Americans had united around the country’s shared ideals.
He did take time to bemoan the state of U.S. politics, but he generally avoided framing the problems in partisan terms. “We live in a time when all sorts of forces conspire to turn good people off of politics,” Obama said. “The way we get our news. The way money floods into our campaign. The way … our candidates are rewarded for pandering to the extremes instead of trying to keep common ground and forging consensus.”
Obama did not mention Trump by name in his remarks, and his one clear reference to the 45th president came in the form of a cautionary tale about the importance of fostering national unity. “If you have to win a campaign by dividing people, you aren’t going to be able to govern,” he said.
Toward the end of his speech, Obama turned his attention to the white supremacists who marched in Charlottesville over the summer.
“We saw what happened in Charlottesville,” he said. “But we also saw what happened after Charlottesville, when the biggest gatherings of all rejected fear and rejected hate, and the decency and goodwill of the American people came out. That’s how we rise. We don’t rise up by repeating the past. We rise up by learning from the past and listening to each other.”
Just as in 2008, Obama never acknowledged the irony of equating support for his partisan cause with the embrace of unity. And just as in 2008, the crowd that packed in to hear him loved him for it.
After he exited the stage to an ear-splitting ovation, I asked several attendees about their impressions of the speech. They used words like “inspiring” and “uplifting,” and invariably they talked about how much they missed his presence in the White House. Many of them seemed genuinely touched, and all of them promised they would be at the polls next month.
A black rally-goer named Love Mack (she declined to give her full name because her husband is in the military, stationed at a nearby base) told me that the months since Obama left office had been “terrifying” for her family. She said she lives in regular fear of how Trump’s unpredictable approach to geopolitics might end up affecting her husband. “We don’t know if it’s going to be World War III just because he doesn’t understand his words have consequences.”
When I asked Mack if Obama’s words had reassured her at all, she seemed to hesitate for a moment. “Honestly,” she told me, “after the election, I was questioning everyone who wasn’t my race. I could not understand how Trump won. You know, how many people really think like he does? Because he ran on a platform of hate, and people voted for that.” But the diverse turnout that night had given her hope. “This is the first time [since the election] that I’ve been in a room with a mixed-race crowd and actually felt like maybe we were all on the same page,” she said. “Like, maybe these people don’t hate me.”
After the rally, people spilled out of the convention center and onto the sidewalks, chattering happily with each other while vendors sold them pins celebrating Colin Kaepernick and t-shirts featuring Obama’s face next to the words, “Y’ALL MISS ME YET!!!” The mood was cheerful and friendly, like a church barbecue.  
But once they said goodbye and began ambling down the dark street toward their cars, the Obama-induced high seemed to recede as reality set in. It was still October 2017, just nine months into what could be an eight-year Trump presidency. The commander in chief was still culture-warring with black football players. White nationalists were still on the march. The local TV airwaves were still filled with ugly attack ads, and the never-ending campaign that now comprises our national politics was still just as tribal and toxic as ever.
Waiting at a crosswalk a couple blocks from the convention center, a trio of young professionals still carrying their “Northam for Governor” signs sounded deflated as they talked about the gubernatorial race, and how distant they felt from the other half of their state, the other half of their country.
“How do they see the world so differently?” one of the men wondered. “I just don’t get it.” There was a pause in the conversation, and then he sighed. “I know they’re saying the same thing about me.”


Former President George W. Bush’s speech this week in New York City flagged a malign force in the world: the “sustained attempt by a hostile power” to feed and exploit America’s divisions.
“According to our intelligence services, the Russian government has made a project of turning Americans against each other,” Bush said. “This effort is broad, systematic, and stealthy, it’s conducted across a range of social-media platforms.” He urged new efforts to secure the American electoral system against subversion in the digital sphere.
I agree with that prescription. But I’ve long thought that evidence of online political manipulation by Russia suggests a need for something beyond changes in policy. Internet users should change their comportment, showing more charity to competing political tribes and exhibiting less pessimism about the state of U.S. politics.
Yes, there’s good cause for pessimism—and plenty of homegrown ugliness and idiocy.
Yet it’s certain that at least some of the off-putting behavior that the most digitally engaged Americans encounter is fakery created to make us think less of one another.
Our authentic online behavior isn’t quite as bad as we imagine.
This first occurred to me back in 2015 when I read Adrian Chen’s “The Agency,” an impressive look at an operation in St. Petersburg, Russia, where “an army of well-paid trolls” tried to wreak havoc in American communities, fabricating a “toxic fume” disaster in St. Mary Parish, Louisiana, and an ebola outbreak in Atlanta, Georgia.
Among their other exploits:
… A totally different group of accounts began spreading a rumor that an unarmed black woman had been shot to death by police. They all used the hashtag #shockingmurderinatlanta. Here again, the hoax seemed designed to piggyback on real public anxiety; that summer and fall were marked by protests over the shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo. In this case, a blurry video purports to show the shooting, as an onlooker narrates.
And this:
Spread Your Wings described itself as “a community for everyone whose heart is with America.” Spread Your Wings posted photos of American flags and memes about how great it was to be an American, but the patriotism rang hollow once you tried to parse the frequent criticisms of Obama, an incoherent mishmash of liberal and conservative attacks that no actual American would espouse. There was also Art Gone Conscious, which posted bad art and then tenuously connected it to Obama’s policy failures, and the self-explanatory Celebrities Against Obama. The posts churned out every day by this network of pages were commented on and shared by the same group of trolls, a virtual Potemkin village of disaffected Americans.
We’ve since learned that Russian trolls organized anti-immigrant rallies in two states, and posed online as Black Lives Matter supporters in one instance and as members of a Muslim American organization in another. They hoped to spark discord among factions of our fellow citizens. So if you’ve ever felt at a loss to understand how some of your neighbors could possibly reach certain conclusions, consider that they could have been targeted by teens in a Macedonian village bent on duping them.
Literally!
And one needn’t have been targeted or duped by Macedonians or Russian ad buys to have been affected by foreign manipulation. As my colleague Alexis Madrigal noted:
… the 3,000 ads that have been linked to Russia are a drop in the bucket, even if they did reach millions of people. The real game is simply that Russian operatives created pages that reached people “organically,” as the saying goes. Jonathan Albright, research director of the Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia University, pulled data on the six publicly known Russia-linked Facebook pages. He found that their posts had been shared 340 million times. And those were six of 470 pages that Facebook has linked to Russian operatives. You’re probably talking billions of shares, with who knows how many views, and with what kind of specific targeting.
We cannot fully conceive of the effort to manipulate us. But we can safely extrapolate its effect: to make us think marginally less well of our neighbors than they deserve.
It is cathartic to adjust for that thumb on the scale. Go ahead. Indulge. Next time an anonymous vulgarian slides into your Twitter mentions; or a Facebook page ostensibly allied with your ideological opposites posts an update more vile than you imagined them to be; breathe deep, summon higher-order thinking, and say, “Not his time, Vlad!” Why not err on the side of charity?


When White House Chief of Staff—and Gold Star parent—John Kelly, on Thursday defended Donald Trump’s call to the newly widowed Myeshia Johnson, he was somber and sincere, which is refreshing. But he was wrong.
Context matters. From another person, at another time, observing that Sergeant La David Johnson “knew what he signed up for” by joining the Army wouldn’t have sparked outrage. But consider what else Representative Frederica Wilson—with the backing of Johnson’s mother—has alleged: that Trump didn’t know Johnson’s name; he repeatedly called him “your guy.” And that Trump’s tone was oddly jovial: “He was almost, like, joking.”
Above all, consider what we know about the way Trump discusses pain and death. This is the man who congratulated Puerto Ricans—whose island had been utterly devastated—for losing only “16” and not “thousands of people.” The man who told a crowd in Corpus Christi on August 29, while 30,000 Texans were displaced, “It’s going well.” And who said after touring the convention center where thousands of Houstonians were taking refuge that, “We saw a lot of happiness.”
Donald Trump minimizes suffering for which he might be held responsible. That’s likely what he was doing in his conversation with Myeshia Johnson. And it’s not just insensitive; it’s dangerous. As the former Missouri Senate candidate, and former Army intelligence officer, Jason Kander observed on Wednesday night on CNN, people say, “He knew what he signed up for” because “they are seeking emotional distance from the situation. People say that because they want to avoid feeling that pain.” That’s worrying, Kander added, because “I want the president, any president … when they’re making a decision about sending people to a dangerous place, I want them to have as one of the things in their mind, the visceral, emotional feeling” that comes from absorbing a widow’s inconsolable grief.
That’s the key point. Trump’s comments bespeak a refusal to face the human costs of violence and war that could have frightening consequences for American foreign policy.
Trump loves discussing violence. He does it often, and almost always in the same way. When committed by terrorists, criminals, or protesters, violence is horrific, and its perpetrators are subhuman. (“Animals,” is a favorite Trump word.) But when committed by Trump’s side, violence is righteous and heroic, evidence of a functioning moral order. Crucially, it is also cost-free. Trump barely ever admits that violence, when deployed by his side, causes suffering that need disturb his sleep.
This narrative is part of Trump’s own, self-styled, personal history. He’s said that, “In the second grade I actually gave a teacher a black eye. I punched my music teacher because I didn’t think he knew anything about music and I almost got expelled.” The story is likely invented. But what’s striking is the pride with which he recounts it. Far from expressing something troubling about his character, the incident shows that “I was a very assertive, aggressive kid.” The young Trump exhibited the very qualities he prides himself on today.
As an adult, Trump assiduously avoided real violence. He gained five deferments to avoid service in Vietnam. But he lustily participated in fake, consequence-free violence. His frequent appearances at World Wrestling Entertainment events got him inducted him into the WWE Hall of Fame. At WrestleMania 23 in 2007, he pretended to repeatedly punch WWE Chairman Vince McMahon and then, along with two wrestlers, brutally shaved his head while McMahon pretended to plead for mercy and scream in agony. It was simulated torture, and Trump appeared to thoroughly enjoy it.
Trump still finds the WWE paradigm—candy-corn violence—attractive. In July, he tweeted a video of himself at WrestleMania repeatedly punching a victim whose face was covered by the CNN logo. In August he retweeted a drawing of a train labelled Trump running over a person labelled CNN (before later deleting it).
At his campaign rallies, Trump tried to make this cartoon violence real. He often expressed a yearning to beat up protesters and congratulated his supporters when they did so on his behalf. Far from expressing concern that such violence might cause pain or even death, he described such concern as symptomatic of the cultural weakness he was running for president to overcome. “I’d like to punch him in the face,” Trump exclaimed as a protester was being escorted out of a rally in Las Vegas. “In the old days,” he added, such people were “carried out on stretchers” but unfortunately, “we’re not allowed to push back anymore.” Near Ferguson, Missouri, while bemoaning the time it was taking to eject a demonstrator, Trump declared that “part of the problem and part of the reason it takes so long is nobody wants to hurt each other anymore.” As guards removed protesters in Fayetteville, North Carolina, Trump said “They used to treat them very, very rough, and when they protested once, they would not do it again so easily.” As a society, he added, “we’ve become weak.” Since becoming president, Trump has tried to rectify this by urging police to “please don’t be too nice” with suspects. In August he said “tough police tactics” would stop the violence in Chicago “in a week.”
Another striking example of Trump’s refusal to face the human consequences of the violence he glorifies comes from his discussion of the NFL. The press has been filled in recent years with stories of former football players driven to suicide by the brain injuries they suffered on the field. But to Trump, they knew what they signed up for. In fact, he’s mocked the NFL for trying to minimize their suffering. Last year, when a woman at a Florida campaign rally passed out and then regained consciousness, Trump declared that, “That woman was out cold, and now she’s coming back. We don’t go by these new, and very much softer, NFL rules. Concussions. ‘Oh, oh! Got a little ding on the head. No, no, you can’t play for the rest of the season.’” In Iowa he said, “Football’s become soft like our country has become soft.”
Trump’s discussion of war is similar. He said last October that veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder were not “strong.” He yearns for the good old days when American soldiers did not acknowledge pain, and when law, morality, and empathy did not impede their ability to maim and kill. Trump has repeatedly cited a bogus story about General John J. Pershing killing Muslim terrorists with bullets smeared in pigs’ blood as his model for fighting terrorism. He’s called for torture techniques far “stronger” than waterboarding. And he’s called for killing the families of alleged terrorists.
He perfectly illustrates Robert E. Lee’s famous maxim that, “It is well that war is so terrible, otherwise we should grow too fond of it.” Except that Trump won’t admit it’s terrible. By ignoring, or even celebrating, its horror, he gives himself permission to delight in its pageantry and power. He relishes calling his defense secretary “Mad Dog.” He dropped the “mother of all bombs” in Afghanistan. He shocked Chinese president Xi Jinping when he informed him, over chocolate cake, that he had bombed Syria. He relishes public displays of weaponry: In June he flew to France to witness “one of the greatest parades I have ever seen … two hours” of “military might,” and then proposed something similar along Pennsylvania Avenue.
And he relishes threatening war against North Korea. By one estimate, he has done so five or six times. He’s claimed America will “totally destroy North Korea,” that “they will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen,” (Trump liked that line so much he tweeted it out twice), and that if North Korean officials keep threatening the U.S., “they won’t be around much longer.” Just as striking, Trump almost never mentions the obvious, colossal, human costs such a war would entail. His advisors have surely briefed him on them. But I’m unaware of any public statement, or private vignette, in which he acknowledges them in any meaningful way.
“I’m really good at war. I love war in a certain way,” Trump told an Iowa rally in 2015, “But only when we win.” It’s plausible that Trump will avoid war with North Korea because he fears America cannot prevail. It is far less likely that he will avoid war because he can’t bear the human cost. He never bears it.
That’s what Myeshia Johnson—who has a six-year-old, a two-year-old, and is pregnant, and who said she doesn’t know what she’ll do without her “soulmate”—confronted Trump with: the human cost. The human cost that doesn’t exist in professional wrestling. The human cost, which proves that violence and war aren’t always grand, manly spectacles, and that America doesn’t always win. The human cost, for which Trump, as commander in chief, bears responsibility.
He couldn’t handle it. His attacks on Wilson suggest he still can’t. He won’t abandon his decades-old intoxication with pretend violence and pretend war. And that makes him a very dangerous man to be leading the most powerful military on earth.


JERUSALEM—The scene was like a contemporary Christian music concert, but with a lot more Jewish swag. European pilgrims wore Star of David jewelry as they swayed among the palm trees of Ein Gedi, an oasis in the Judean desert. Spanish delegates sported matching “España loves Israel” T-shirts. A tiny woman from China jogged around waving a person-sized flag bearing a Hebrew word for God, while another Chinese woman periodically blew a giant shofar, the ram’s horn that is sacred in Judaism. The crowd sang songs from the Psalms, following transliterated Hebrew on giant television screens. As night fell, their chorus of “holy, holy, worthy, worthy” seemed to fill the desert.
This was the opening ceremony for the 2017 Feast of the Tabernacles, the International Christian Embassy Jerusalem’s annual celebration held during the Jewish holiday of Sukkot. More than 6,000 Christians from all over the world had come to show their love for Israel, and I tagged along with ICEJ spokesperson David Parsons and his wife, Josepha. “It’s like a pre-celebration before Moshiach comes,” she explained, using the Hebrew word for messiah.
Israeli Settlers Weren't Always So Religious—They Were Once Secular Hippies
Christian Zionism typically involves a belief that Jews must return to Israel in order to fulfill biblical prophecy. While the movement long predates the formation of the state of Israel in 1948, it got new energy from the American religious right in the 1980s. Now, according to Daniel Hummel, a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, the movement is undergoing a transformation, both theologically and geographically.
The ICEJ Feast is an example of a broader shift within Christian Zionism toward Pentecostal or charismatic traditions: Many attendees come out of traditions that emphasize present-day miracles, ecstatic worship, and God’s healing powers. The ICEJ also has an international rather than American focus: Parsons, an amiable North Carolinian who has lived in Israel for decades and casually uses Yiddish phrases like “oy oy oy,” proudly noted that Americans made up less than 10 percent of the Feast’s attendees this year.
Israel often stands alone on the international stage, save for the one ally that almost always comes to its rescue: the United States. Conservative Christians in America have long reinforced that partnership. In the future, though, Christians outside the U.S. may prove more organized and influential when it comes to Israel than their American counterparts.
White, American evangelicals have long been some of the most visible leaders in the Christian Zionist movement. In the 1980s, Jerry Falwell’s Moral Majority made Israel a Republican policy priority. Decades later, Christians United for Israel (CUFI), the Christian Zionist organization led by the Texas pastor John Hagee, is enjoying remarkable access to the Trump administration; Vice President Mike Pence addressed the group in Washington in July. At this year’s ICEJ Feast, a number of attendees expressed admiration for President Trump, who is more supportive of Israel than past administrations, they said. Charles Null, a 66-year-old pastor from Florida, noted that “I actually had hair” when he and his wife started coming to Israel. He wore a Make America Great Again cap.
Yet, there are signs that the ICEJ, founded in 1980, will have a more lasting influence on Israel than its American counterparts, Hummel said. This year’s Feast drew attendees from nearly 100 countries, according to the group, which is “by far the largest reach that any of the big Christian Zionist organizations have,” Hummel said. Other than CUFI, he added, no other group has as much visibility and contact with the Israeli government. And some Christian Zionists in America worry that they haven’t effectively reached young evangelicals with their message. “I don’t think it would be surprising if after Hagee dies, CUFI goes away,” Hummel said.
By contrast, local volunteers in roughly 86 countries coordinate activities and recruit delegations to attend the ICEJ Feast; the organization can legitimately claim that it represents a global, grassroots network. “The Embassy sees the future in the non-American Christian community,” said Hummel. “It’s another reason why the Embassy is a much more appealing partner than Americans.”
“We need these people to be our allies in the UN.”
ICEJ has expanded in tandem with the rise of global Pentecostal movements. Parsons said the Embassy’s presence has been growing in Asia, Latin America, and Africa, where Pentecostal revivals among the middle class are reshaping the religious landscape. In Brazil, for example, the Catholic Church is quickly losing followers to these lively churches. Dozens of people in this year’s Brazilian delegation traveled 22 hours to get to the Feast, said 33-year-old Alexandre Morales, who was there for the fifth time. “Our baby boy was conceived here, and his name is Israel,” he told me.
Local ICEJ representatives often seek to influence their home country’s politics and culture. Jehu Chan, 67, an evangelical who runs ICEJ’s program in Singapore with his wife, Christine Jael, was trained for military service years ago by the Israeli Defense Forces. Along with reaching potential Christian converts in his home country, he hopes to correct the record about Israel—even in Singapore, a country with a very friendly relationship with Israel. “There’s a lot of fake news about Israel,” he told me.
Many of the delegates came from countries that explicitly oppose Israeli policies. On the day of the Jerusalem March, when thousands of Feast participants parade through the city, a group from South Africa wore T-shirts declaring, “Am Yisrael Chai,” or “the People of Israel lives.” A year ago, the South African delegation to UNESCO—the United Nations body that protects the world’s cultural heritage—voted for a resolution that implicitly denied the Jewish claim to the Temple Mount, a contested holy site in Jerusalem. (This month, the United States and Israel both announced decisions to leave UNESCO over this and other related issues.)
This may be one reason why the Israeli government bothers to confer its blessing on the Feast: This year, as in the past, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu shared his greeting via a taped message.
“The future investment the state is doing is hoping that these groups end up actually representing important players in their own countries,” Hummel said.
A number of organizations—including Jewish ones—are investing in the same hope. At the Pais Arena, the giant Jerusalem venue where most of the Feast was held, attendees could visit a booth for Israel 365, an organization founded by a Modern Orthodox rabbi that aggregates news about Israel into newsletters for largely Christian audiences. Visitors could learn to shake a lulav and etrog, the fronds and fruit traditionally waved during the Jewish holiday of Sukkot, or take selfies with an image of the “soon-to-be Third Temple,” as Maayan Hoffman, the director of publishing, called it. “When it comes to diplomatic support, evangelicals are our best friends,” she said. “We need these people to be our allies in the UN.” They’re also good for business: In addition to having a non-profit arm, Israel 365 also acts as a for-profit consultancy to organizations and companies that want to reach Christians.
“Usually we have rocks thrown at us. Today, we’re being thrown candy.”
All the Christians I met at the Feast saw Israel as central to their understanding of Christianity. Julio Caesar, a 49-year-old pastor from Madrid, said his church holds a special Friday service to honor Israel and pray for peace in Jerusalem. Gift Sabeno, a 36-year-old from Angola, said he has “concerns about what we see in the news” about the Arab-Israeli conflict, but “we can pray and know it is being changed while we’re praying.” Most people didn’t have a deep knowledge of the country’s complicated politics. “I think it’s a shame that it’s been like this,” said 18-year-old Drea Fosse of Norway, who supports Israel “100 percent” and can sing the words to “Hava Nagila” from memory. But on the conflict, she said, “I think I have too little knowledge to say something.” Lydia Tang, a 35-year-old delegate from China, said she is not at all concerned about Palestinian humanitarian issues or Israel’s conflict with its Arab neighbors. “God can take care of that,” she said. None of the people I met said they had any interaction with Arabs during their visit to Israel, except for the delegation of 20-something women from Samoa, who had befriended a Muslim woman at their hostel.
Few Feast attendees said they had interacted with Jews in Israel, either, outside of the occasional tour guide or Messianic Jews, people who claim Jewish heritage and practice but embrace Christian teachings. Other than speakers and presenters, Jews do not attend the ICEJ’s annual event.
While some Christian Zionist movements can seem actively hostile toward Jews—particularly those that emphasize supersessionism, the teaching that Christianity has displaced the Jewish covenant with God—Feast attendees were wary of saying that Jews should convert. At most, said 46-year-old Marco Canovas from Sao Paolo, he hopes Jews might learn about Jesus—slowly, on their own time. For its part, the ICEJ scrupulously tries to avoid any impression of proselytization, which is prohibited under Israeli law. “We’re a Christian Zionist organization focused on the restoration of Israel, but we’re also interested in the Jewishness of Jesus,” Parsons said.
At the Jerusalem March, Jewish families stood at the edge of a holding area for participants, watching men in traditional Thai costumes blowing shofars and crowds of Finnish tourists singing Jewish folk songs. They weren’t bothered. “It’s cute,” said Rivka Horowitz, an ultra-Orthodox Jewish woman who visits the Feast every year with her family. If they were bemused at the whole spectacle, they also saw its advantages. “Usually we have rocks thrown at us,” her husband, Zev, added. “Today, we’re being thrown candy.”


White House Chief of Staff John Kelly made some extraordinary remarks during Thursday’s White House briefing. They were extraordinary not only because Kelly seldom speaks on the record to the press and was doing so for the second time in a week, but also for the deeply personal nature of what he said—discussing the death of his son in combat, a topic he has in the past been careful to avoid. Yet Kelly’s defense of President Trump, who is embroiled in a self-inflicted crisis over his condolences for the families of fallen servicemembers, also contained the grain of a strong rebuke to the president.
Kelly began with a description of what happens when a soldier, sailor, marine, or airman or -woman is killed in battle. Then he said:
Who are these young men and women? They are the best 1 percent this country produces. Most of you as Americans don’t know them. Many of you don’t know anyone who knows any one of them. But they are the very best this country produces and they volunteer to protect our country when there’s nothing in our country anymore that seems to suggest that selfless service to the nation is not only appropriate but required.
Kelly’s point is correct—as my colleague James Fallows wrote in 2015, the military is increasingly cut off from the mainstream of American culture, with terrible consequences for both. (It is a critique that sweeps in the president, who assiduously avoided serving in Vietnam.)
On Wednesday, Representative Frederica Wilson said that in a call to the family of Sergeant La David Johnson, who died in Niger earlier this month, Trump had told Johnson’s widow, “He knew what he was getting into when he signed up.” Trump denied ever saying that, but as I wrote on Wednesday, it seemed possible that Trump had simply been speaking about soldiers’ sense of duty. And that’s what Kelly, contradicting Trump’s denial, said. Kelly said the president had asked him what to tell the family.
I said to him, “Sir, there’s nothing you can do to lighten the burden on these families. Let me tell you what I tell them, let me tell you what my best friend Joe Dunford told me, because he was my casualty officer, he said, ‘Kel, he was doing exactly what he wanted to do when he was killed. He knew what he was getting into by joining that 1 percent. He knew what the possibilities were. Because we’re at war. And when he died’—in the four cases we’re talking about Niger and my son’s case in Afghanistan—‘when he died he was surrounded by the best men on this earth, his friends.’ That’s what the president tried to say to four families the other day.”
Kelly then laced into Wilson. “It stuns me that a member of Congress would have listened in on that conversation. Absolutely stuns me,” he said. “When I listened to this woman and what she was saying and what she was doing on TV, the only thing I could do to collect my thoughts was to go and walk among the finest men and women on this earth. And you can always find them. Because they’re in Arlington National Cemetery. Went over there for an hour and a half, walked among the stones, some of whom I put there because they were doing what I told them to do when they were killed.”
He then continued to attack Wilson on other matters, but the core of his critique was that she had improperly politicized the matter. (Wilson’s office did not immediately respond to a request for comment.)
It’s hard to hear or read Kelly’s words about his son’s death and not be moved, especially given his reticence in the past; his decision to open up now seems telling, even if it’s not immediately clear what it tells. Likewise, his defense of the president’s call as well-intentioned is plausible, and his comments about the insulation of military grief from most of society are important. But the charge of politicization is less credible, not because of anything Kelly said, but because of who he works for.
After all, it’s Trump who, when asked about the deaths in Niger during a press conference on Monday, opted to personalize the question and treat it as a challenge to his reputation for offering condolences. It is also Trump who, in that answer, unfairly and inaccurately accused previous presidents of not offering condolences. (Kelly confirmed that he had told Trump that Obama did not call him after his son’s death, though he added, “That was not a criticism.” Contra Trump’s jab, he suggested it was reasonable for presidents not to call every family, especially during periods when there are many casualties.) And it was Trump who, as further reporting has revealed, was not telling the truth about having called all or nearly all of the families of servicemembers who died during his presidency.
Kelly argued that the political debate over the past few days was proof of the coarsening of American culture.
“When I was a kid growing up a lot of things were sacred in our country,” Kelly said. “Women were sacred and looked upon with great honor. That’s obviously not the case anymore as we’ve seen from recent cases. Life, the dignity of life, was sacred. That’s gone. Religion. That seems to be gone as well. Gold Star families, I think that left in the convention over the summer.”
It wasn’t clear what “recent cases” Kelly meant; it would be surprising if it was a reference to allegations of sexual assault against Harvey Weinstein and others, coming from the chief of staff for a man caught on tape boasting about sexual assault. It’s hard to know exactly what Kelly meant with that final sentence, but one reading is that it is a swipe at Khizr and Ghazala Khan, the Gold Star parents who spoke at the Democratic National Convention. Trump responded to that speech with days of insult and attacks on the Khans. Kelly may very well have a valid point about the politicization of military suffering, but if he wants to single out culprits in that desacralization, he could start with his boss’s comments, from both last summer and this week.


During an emotional address at the daily White House press briefing, Chief of Staff John Kelly defended President Trump’s handling of a phone call with a Gold Star family and described his own son’s death in Afghanistan. Former President George W. Bush warned against the rise of “nativism” and said bigotry in America “seems emboldened.” Ohio Representative Pat Tiberi said he’s resigning from Congress to lead the Ohio Business Roundtable. Senator John McCain threatened to seek a subpoena to get more information on the attack in Niger that killed four U.S. service members. Former President Obama will speak at a rally for Virginia gubernatorial candidate Ralph Northam in Richmond at 6 p.m. ET.
‘How Money Became the Measure of Everything’: It wasn’t until the turn of the 20th century that Americans started using economic terms to quantify their well-being. (Eli Cook)
Problematic Influence: Publishers like Google and Facebook are increasingly targeting readers with personalized news—a development that comes with a lot of risks. (Adrienne LaFrance)
Is Public Corruption Legal?: Matt Ford explains how a 2016 Supreme Court ruling could have long-term effects on America’s republican institutions.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Victory on His Watch: Since Donald Trump’s inauguration nine months ago, ISIS has lost much of its territory—and Trump has played a significant role in that transformation. (Jonathan S. Tobin, National Review)
Order in the Court: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch is reportedly irritating his colleagues on the bench—especially Justice Elena Kagan. (Mark Joseph Stern, Slate)
A Fight for Honor: Former White House strategist Steve Bannon and Senator John McCain represent two rival factions within the Republican party: the hedgehog versus the honey badger. (Bret Stephens, The New York Times)
Rigged: Ari Berman explains how voter suppression helped Donald Trump win the 2016 presidential election. (Mother Jones)
Leaked: An internal White House “wish list” obtained by Crooked Media shows the objectives and fixations of the Trump administration—from sex education to childhood obesity. (Brian Beutler)
‘Nationalism without a nation’ 
by Elizabeth Bruenig
In a short but insightful blog post, Bruenig reasons that the nationalism most closely associated with Trump is more transactional in his mind than it is for many of his devoted followers.
—Senior editor Adam Serwer
‘I’m Crying for My Motherland’: In the past two months, nearly 600,000 Rohingya refugees have fled from Burma to Bangladesh to escape persecution. See photos of the fastest-growing refugee crisis in the world. (Alan Taylor, The Atlantic)
Senators Dianne Feinstein and Chuck Grassley are two of the oldest and longest-serving members of Congress, and both could be sticking around for the foreseeable future. The Atlantic’s Michelle Cottle reported on Monday that younger politicians are growing frustrated with what they view as out-of-touch lawmakers clinging to power by continuing to serve well into their 70s and 80s.
Do you think there should be an age limit for politicians? Why, or why not?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


For a few days earlier this month, it looked like the years-long corruption probe targeting New Jersey Senator Bob Menendez would fall apart seven weeks into his trial. At issue was the prosecution’s “stream of benefits” theory, which argues that the steady flow of donations and gifts from a wealthy Florida doctor to the Democratic senator—and the flow of favors from the senator to the doctor—amounted to quid pro quo corruption.
During a hearing last week, Judge William Walls seemed to signal that argument was dead on arrival by citing a recent Supreme Court ruling that has vexed public-corruption investigators across the country. “I frankly don’t think McDonnell will allow that,” Walls told prosecutors, referring to the decision in McDonnell v. United States that fundamentally changed the standard for bribery.
How to Build an Autocracy
Walls eventually decided to let the case proceed, declining to throw out most of Menendez’s charges. But the close call underscores the continuing fallout from McDonnell last year. That ruling, like a series of others from the Court in recent years, recast actions once eschewed in politics as reasonable behavior for elected officials. The justices have portrayed these rulings as necessary on First Amendment grounds. But the long-term effects could imperil the public’s faith in democratic institutions.
“There’s a way in which a lot of the Supreme Court decisions have been ever narrowing what corruption means,” Tara Malloy, a staff lawyer at the Campaign Legal Center, told me. “And McDonnell is one further example of it.”
The case narrowed what could be defined as an “official act” under federal corruption statutes—the quo of a quid pro quo, so to speak. Since McDonnell, it only applies to direct exercises of a government official’s power, like voting for legislation or signing an order. More seemingly mundane activities, like urging other officials to intervene in someone’s favor or setting up meetings for donors, do not qualify.
Before the decision, federal prosecutors brought cases against Democrats and Republicans alike by arguing that “official act” applied to all sorts of actions taken by public officials. Former Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell, a Republican, was convicted in 2015 after taking more than $175,000 in luxury gifts, personal loans, and more from Johnnie Williams, a Virginia businessman who received favors from the governor. On appeal, McDonnell argued his actions were part of being an elected official and fell beyond what federal bribery laws could prohibit.
The Supreme Court agreed. Chief Justice John Roberts, who wrote the Court’s opinion, appeared to anticipate a public backlash. “There is no doubt that this case is distasteful; it may be worse than that,” he wrote. “But our concern is not with tawdry tales of Ferraris, Rolexes, and ball gowns. It is instead with the broader legal implications of the government’s boundless interpretation of the federal bribery statute.” All eight justices sided with McDonnell, with the ninth seat vacant after Antonin Scalia’s death in February.
“The concern of the Court was that the prosecution not define ‘official act’—which is what the statute there required—too broadly,” Malloy said. “They thought that ‘official act,’ according to the prosecution, was basically anything a public official did by reason of their position or through the resources of their position. And the Court said, ‘No, no, no.’”
At the same time, Roberts also took an exceedingly generous view of McDonnell’s activities. Where the Justice Department saw an elected official providing special perks for a lucrative donor, the chief justice saw the risk that “conscientious public officials” could be hauled in by prosecutorial zealots. “Officials might wonder whether they could respond to even the most commonplace requests for assistance, and citizens with legitimate concerns might shrink from participating in democratic discourse,” he mused, as if to suggest judges and juries would not be able to tell the difference.
Randall Eliason, a George Washington University law professor and former federal prosecutor, described McDonnell to me as “a lawyerly opinion in the worst sense of the word.” By focusing on just one aspect of the statutory definition of “official act,” he said, the Court missed the broader issues with the relationship between McDonnell and an influential donor who showered him, and his wife, with lavish gifts. He offered a jarring hypothetical that illustrates how officials could leverage their power in a post-McDonnell world:
Currently, I could set up a system where I’m a governor and I tell everybody who might want to meet with someone in my cabinet to make a pitch, or try to get a contract, or advocate for some program. I could say, “Okay, I’ll set up a meeting for you. The cost is $10,000.” And that just goes in my pocket. That’s not a campaign contribution; it’s not going to be reported to the public anywhere. That’s just going to be a gift for me, and I’ll set up the meeting. I’m not going to tell anybody what to do, I’m not going to tell them what to decide, I’ll just get you in the room. And if you don’t pay me, no meeting.
Eliason and other legal observers had thought McDonnell could prevail in his appeal, but the scale of the ruling came as a surprise. “I mean, access is valuable, right?” Eliason told me. “And you can just pay for access as long as the official doesn’t actually agree to decide something for you, but can get you in the room with the other movers and shakers who are going to do it. Now that’s not considered corruption.”
Three months after the ruling, the Justice Department abandoned its efforts to prosecute McDonnell and his wife. “After carefully considering the Supreme Court’s recent decision and the principles of federal prosecution, we have made the decision not to pursue the case further,” it said in a terse press release. McDonnell celebrated the outcome, telling reporters his “wrongful” conviction was “based on a false narrative and incorrect law.”
If it hasn’t already, McDonnell could affect how prosecutors build corruption cases and limit the range of behaviors for which they’ll pursue charges. Those watching the Menendez case in New Jersey could be even more motivated to do so. But Malloy also warned that McDonnell fits into a broader pattern of how the Roberts Court approaches corruption in politics, and what it could do in future cases.
“We’re not simply talking about these criminal prosecutions. We’re talking about the full range of laws that attempt to protect the integrity of government,” she said, citing statutes on ethics, political transparency, and campaign finance the justices have taken a narrower view of. Malloy attributed the shift to the departure of Sandra Day O’Connor in 2005.
“Once upon a time, for instance, a campaign-finance law could be justified if there was a concern that money could provide influence or access to officials,” she explained. “The Supreme Court in recent years has said, ‘No, no, no, we don’t really care if your campaign contribution gets you access or ingratiation or a whole bunch of favors. We think corruption is much more like quid pro quo and maybe even just cash for votes.’”
In the 2003 case McConnell v. FEC, for example, O’Connor voted with the majority to uphold most of the McCain-Feingold campaign-finance-reform law. Seven years later, a five-justice majority—including Samuel Alito, O’Connor’s replacement—overturned McConnell in Citizens United v. FEC to allow unlimited independent expenditures in political campaigns. And in 2014, the Court struck down aggregate limits on campaign donations in McCutcheon v. FEC.
Following the justices’ decision last year, McDonnell’s impact quickly reverberated through other public-corruption cases, including two high-profile prosecutions in New York. In July, a three-judge panel in the Second Circuit Court of Appeals tossed out the conviction of Sheldon Silver, once the powerful state-assembly speaker. The judges ruled that the jury instructions had conformed to the pre-McDonnell standard of “official acts” and couldn’t be reconciled with the Supreme Court’s ruling. Three months later, in September, the Second Circuit also overturned the conviction of Dean Skelos, the state senate’s former majority leader, on similar grounds.
Silver had been convicted of extortion, fraud, and money laundering in 2015. Prosecutors said he helped funnel state funds to a Columbia University cancer researcher in exchange for millions of dollars; they also connected him to favorable-treatment deals for two real-estate development firms. Skelos was found guilty of eight corruption-related charges the same year for allegedly using his influence to secure jobs and payments for his son. Federal prosecutors plan to seek retrials for both Silver and Skelos, who were known as power brokers in the state.
McDonnell also came down as federal prosecutors were preparing to go to trial against Menendez, a senator since 2006. At the crux of the case is his friendship with Salomon Melgen, a wealthy Florida ophthalmologist and frequent campaign donor. Prosecutors have depicted Menendez as a personal legislator of sorts to Melgen. He allegedly used his political influence to help obtain visas for Melgen’s girlfriends, secure contracts for him in the Dominican Republic, and intervene in a Medicare billing dispute with the Department of Health and Human Services.
Menendez has denied any wrongdoing, and his lawyers argue the favors don’t rise to the newly heightened standard of official acts. Federal prosecutors, for their part, argue that the stream of benefits that flowed from Melgen to Menendez meet the threshold under federal law without linking specific quids to specific quos. Even though Walls declined to dismiss the charges against the lawmaker, he could still dismiss some of them later in the trial if the prosecution fails to present enough evidence. And like McDonnell himself, Menendez could also challenge any convictions under the stream-of-benefits theory on appeal.
Behind these legal doctrines and prosecutorial theories are questions about the popular legitimacy of the republican system—about voters being able to trust that the officials they elect aren’t the puppets of the country’s richest patrons. What McDonnell and other recent public-corruption rulings risk are institutions where cash and favors flow freely, where consequences are exceptional, and where public vice is made indistinguishable from civic virtue. No Americans expect a government of saints, but they expect their government to be able to root out the sinners in its midst.


The U.S. is just one of two nations in the world with a money bail system; the other is the Philippines. The system means that people are held in jail while they wait for trial, unless they can afford to pay to go free. Defendants who can’t pay their way out of jail often lose their jobs, homes, children, and sometimes even their lives.
Courts across the country are starting to face legal and legislative challenges to their bail systems. And New Orleans has become a key battleground, as lawmakers try to shake its legacy as “the most incarcerated city in the most incarcerated state in the world.”
The bail bonds industry has argued that financial collateral is the only effective way to ensure defendants return to court for their trials. Starting in the spring, the Orleans Parish criminal district court decided to test this theory with a pilot program that came close to approximating what it would be like if the court eliminated bail altogether. It used a risk assessment tool to identify who was most likely to return to court without incident—and then it released them without making them pay.
The result? People released in the pilot returned to court at roughly the same rate as defendants in other commissioners’ courtrooms, according to a new report by the civilian court monitoring group Court Watch Nola. The rearrest rate was also comparable, although somewhat higher, at 4.5% rather than 2.9%. In all, 9 people out of 201 people in the program were arrested again after they were released without bail.
The findings help debunk warnings by opponents that replacing money bail will release dangerous criminals into the streets and allow fugitives to flee from justice.
These results were promising enough that the court expanded the program to all four commissioners’ courts in October. If implemented widely, the program could lead to a dramatic reduction in the city’s pretrial jail population.
At a press conference Wednesday morning, executive director Simone Levine noted that in the year observed by Court Watch volunteers, 36% of felony defendants at first appearances in magistrate court were considered “low-risk” for release—about three times the number of high-risk defendants appearing in court.
“This means that the biggest reason we are paying so much for unnecessary incarceration is to incarcerate defendants who will likely return to court and are not a danger to public safety,” Levine said.
“Low risk” is defined in New Orleans by a risk assessment tool developed by the Vera Institute that analyzes data like prior missed court appearances, criminal history, age, and residency to predict the likelihood that a defendant will be re-arrested or fail to appear in court if released before their trial.
Over the six months of the program, jail stays dropped dramatically for these defendants. In March, before the program began, low-risk defendants were sitting in jail for an average of twelve days. That quickly dropped to four days. By June, the average jail stay was two days.
A similar risk assessment tool produced by the Arnold Foundation is used in 38 local jurisdictions, and many of these places have reported similar success in reducing jail populations. The pretrial crime rate also fell in some places, according to the Foundation. One state, New Jersey, has gone even further, essentially eliminating bail statewide. The change has already led to a dramatic reduction in the jail population with no increase in crime. But representatives of the bail industry have launched aggressive legal challenges, noting that some individuals released were rearrested for other crimes.
New Orleans’s pilot program was a key step in a set of reforms the city has tried over the past several years. Though the risk assessment tool has been in place for years, many judges are still setting high bail amounts for low-risk defendants. In this latest effort, one commissioner who makes bail determinations, Jonathan Friedman, was encouraged to release low-risk defendants on only a written promise to return to court in lieu of a bail bond. If required by law to set bail on certain charges, the commissioner was encouraged to set it at just a few dollars or some other nominal amount that defendants could afford. He could also choose to require defendants to undergo pretrial supervision rather than send them to jail.
The city has made other recent moves to reduce its dependence on bail. In 2012, it started using pretrial services to release more people ahead of trial. Last year, the city passed municipal bail reform to eliminate bail for most minor offenses.
As bail reform gains more momentum, the industry organized around it is growing more frantic to stop it. New Orleans bail bondsmen mounted a massive lobbying campaign to try to stop pretrial services in 2012, while judges initially refused to implement the program, seeing the replacement of money bail as a “direct hit” to their budget.
Now that pretrial services have been in place for a few years, however, the current city administration has touted the program for saving millions of dollars in incarceration costs.
But it’s not out of the woods yet. This year, control of the program was transferred from the nonprofit Vera Institute to the same judges who tried to block it.
And Court Watch Nola found these pretrial hearings varied dramatically depending on the courtroom, making for “an uneven, haphazard type of justice, where constitutional rights are afforded depending on the judge in front of whom the defendant appears.” One magistrate judge even used an hourglass to limit the amount of time defendants can talk to their lawyers before going through these hearings.
Court Watch Nola raised the concern that financial support for pretrial services could be jeopardized with a new administration taking office next year. City Councilmember Latoya Cantrell and former municipal judge Desiree Charbonnet are headed to a mayoral run-off election on November 18, and neither has committed to protecting pretrial services’ funding.
“We will have a new mayor next year and so far this has really not come up on the campaign trail,” Levine said. “We think that this is an extremely important issue that really needs to be addressed by the candidates if they are going to be supporting this program or not. And if they don’t, we simply fall back to where we were before.”
Notably, one of Charbonnet’s top campaign advisers is Blair Boutte, a local bail bonds leader currently battling allegations that he kidnapped and extorted his clients, even holding them for ransom in his office until their family members could come up with a certain amount of money. Charbonnet helped enact bail reform for minor offenses as a municipal judge. But Boutte was one of the most active voices against pretrial services in 2012. He’s continued to helm the campaign against broader bail reform in the city. If Boutte and his fellow bondsmen succeed, the New Orleans jail might get a lot more crowded again. “We cannot go back to determining pretrial release by taking a stab in the dark,” Levine said.


With most big cities’s economies continuing to grow, the most pressing issue they face is how to connect their low-income communities to the opportunities that growth creates. New efforts developing in Charlotte, North Carolina, and Chicago show the many creative alternatives cities are exploring to respond to that challenge—and the obstacles they face.
From 2010 through 2015, all of the 100 largest metropolitan areas added jobs, and 98 of them increased their total economic output, according to calculations by the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program.
Why America’s Richest Cities Keep Getting Richer
But in most cities, that revival has largely bypassed communities of concentrated poverty, like large swathes of Chicago’s predominantly African-American South Side or mostly Hispanic East Charlotte. Across the country, many cities have fueled their growth by importing streams of young college graduates from elsewhere, while struggling to place their own low-income kids on a track to obtain the education necessary to compete for those same jobs. Compounding the problem, longtime residents and commercial establishments in moderate- and low-income neighborhoods can find themselves pushed out by rising rents as developers pursue young white-collar workers flocking to urban environments.
These frustrations echoed through a panel I moderated this week in Charlotte at an Atlantic conference on race and criminal justice. Since 2010, according to Brookings, the area has ranked in the top 20 among large metros for growth in terms of jobs and overall economic output. But activists in Charlotte’s African-American and Hispanic neighborhoods uniformly said that dynamism had failed to reach their communities. “It’s growing so much, but it’s leaving a lot of people behind,” said Oliver Merino, an organizer at the Charlotte Center for Legal Advocacy who works mostly with Hispanic families.
More mayors are confronting these complex issues head-on. They are looking for ways to channel more of their growth into neglected neighborhoods, or trying to leverage the tax resources the growth provides, or both. “The common thread is mayors and other local leaders see outsized growth coming into their communities … and want to make sure it is equitably distributed,” said Brooks Rainwater, the director of the National League of Cities’s Center for City Solutions.
Charlotte has examined these problems more systematically than most. After a study led by Stanford University economist Raj Chetty ranked it last among the 50 largest metropolitan areas in promoting upward mobility for low-income kids, local leaders convened a task force on opportunity that produced an extensive report this spring. That effort urged the city to focus mostly on three areas: expanding access to early-childhood education, building a better bridge between high school and post-secondary education, and strengthening families.
In late September, a follow-up report from the Mecklenburg Board of County Commissioners presented a detailed plan for advancing the most important of those recommendations, the one on early-childhood education. Today, the county study noted, less than one-third of the roughly 12,000 children who enter kindergarten each year attend publicly funded preschool for four-year-olds. The study laid out a plan to cover all of them—at no cost to families earning twice the poverty level or less, and with sliding-scale tuition fees for those from more affluent families. Simultaneously, it said, Charlotte should invest in upgrading the quality of its preschool teachers.
The report proposed raising either sales or property taxes to help fund an annual cost for preschool that would reach about $75 million when fully phased in. Endorsing those taxes would mark a tangible first step toward Charlotte’s leaders demonstrating they are committed to tapping the community’s growing prosperity to expand opportunity for all their residents.
In Chicago—a less genteel place where these issues of growth versus need provoke even more friction—Mayor Rahm Emanuel has already undertaken most of the initiatives the Charlotte opportunity task force proposed. (He’s funded a big expansion of pre-K, as well as a community-college scholarship for high-school graduates who maintain good grades.)
In the city budget Emanuel released on Wednesday, he charted a new way for cities to provide opportunity for the many by tapping resources that now mostly benefit a few. Emanuel proposed a first-in-the-nation fee on ride-sharing services like Uber to fund mass transit. The city estimates the fee (eventually up to 20 cents per ride) would provide $20 million annually to help fund the Chicago Transit Authority’s massive ongoing upgrade of bus and subway services.
That tactic creatively responds to the risk that ride sharing will affect mass-transit systems exactly as Federal Express affected the U.S. Postal Service: by siphoning away more affluent consumers, while leaving the public service with diminished resources to serve those who can’t afford alternatives. While ride sharing has usefully expanded people’s choices for getting around, to ensure that transportation remains affordable and accessible for all residents, “I have to keep mass transit competitive,” Emanuel told me.
All of these initiatives would be easier for cities if their respective states or leaders in Washington were helping them. But while Republicans with few ties to urban America are controlling Congress and most state houses, that help isn’t likely.
Even so, Emanuel’s unexpectedly difficult reelection in 2015, and Charlotte Mayor Jennifer Roberts’s defeat last month in a Democratic primary, shows that mayors can’t be complacent about waiting for growth to trickle down into all of their neighborhoods. They will need to keep advancing the kind of ideas Charlotte and Chicago are now considering—and likely go beyond them to confront even more difficult dynamics of racial segregation and bias in housing, education, and policing. Cities face a future of inexorably rising tensions if the renewed flow of opportunity now coursing through them only widens the moat between their places of prosperity and need.


The question to President Trump on Monday sounded relatively innocuous: “Why haven’t we heard anything from you so far about the soldiers that were killed in Niger? And what do you have to say about that?” It’s certainly not the kind of question that seemed likely to set off several days of heated controversy.
But the hubbub that has ensued, centering on Trump’s response to the deaths of four soldiers in Niger and, more broadly, the way he deals with grieving military families, is yet another example of how this president inflicts crises on himself. This pattern has happened several times since Trump entered office, with the tussle over the size of his crowd on Inauguration Day and his claim that Barack Obama “wiretapped him.” In each case, Trump’s bluster and his seeming obsession with Obama have led him to commit serious unforced errors.
'President Trump Did Disrespect My Son'
As is now well known, Trump took that question as an opportunity to unfavorably compare previous presidents’ methods of consoling Gold Star families to his own, suggesting his predecessors had done little or nothing, while he tried to call the family of every fallen soldier. That answer was off-key not only because of the unsolicited slur of other presidents but also because Trump so quickly made the story about himself. While the gap between the October 4 deaths and the October 16 comment remains unexplained, Trump could easily have offered an anodyne statement praising the men’s valor and the importance of U.S. troops to fighting violent extremism.
In fact, Politico reports that the National Security Council staff drafted exactly such a statement for release on October 5, the day after the deaths. “The heroic Americans who lost their lives yesterday did so defending our freedom and fighting violent extremism in Niger,” a draft read in part. “Our administration and our entire nation are deeply grateful for their sacrifice, for their service, and for their patriotism.” Yet for reasons that are still not clear, the statement was never released. Putting it out might have dampened any questions about the mission—which, it is increasingly appears, was ridden with problems—and avoided the press-conference question.
Instead, Trump took the opportunity to claim he called nearly every family of a fallen servicemember. “I’m going to be calling them. I want a little time to pass,” he said. (It’s worth noting that Trump seemed to be short-circuiting his own communications staff by holding the press conference, making the error his alone.) On Tuesday, he added, “I think I’ve called every family of someone who’s died.” By making the debate about himself, by attacking former presidents of both parties and thus guaranteeing their staffers would jump into the fray, and by inviting reporters to dig into the matter—“You could ask General [John] Kelly, did he get a call from Obama?” he said Tuesday—Trump was begging reporters to peer under rocks they might not have otherwise noticed.
Predictably, once they started turning over rocks, there was some gross stuff beneath them. First there was Trump’s call to the widow of La David Johnson, killed in Niger, which only came Tuesday night, when Trump was facing pressure. The call was a fiasco, ending with the widow in tears and Johnson’s grieving mother feeling her family had been “disrespected.”
Then came an Associated Press story reporting that contrary to his claim, Trump had not called every family of a servicemember killed on his watch; in fact, he had snubbed one despite repeated requests, and had not even sent letters to others.
Then The Washington Post published a devastating follow-up. “At least 20 Americans have been killed in action since he became commander in chief in January,” the paper reported. “The Washington Post interviewed the families of 13 and found that his interactions with them vary. About half had received phone calls, they said. The others said they had not heard from the president.”
Furthermore, Trump had offered $25,000 to the family of slain Corporal Dillon Baldridge of Zebulon, North Carolina, and offered to establish an online fundraiser for them during a conversation in June. The Baldridges had never seen the money nor heard another word, the Post reported. Once contacted by the paper, the White House said Wednesday the check was in the mail.
The anecdote is stunning for several reasons. First, it’s odd for the president to offer a five-figure check to one family and not to others. Second, it’s odd to offer huge sums and then not follow through—though as David Fahrenthold demonstrated during the campaign, promising large checks and then not following through has been a signature Trump move for decades. Third, Trump should have known that he had made promises like this and not followed through, and that by encouraging reporters to look around, he was inviting disaster. It was like Gary Hart telling the press they could feel free to look into his personal life, only adding the explosive element of national reverence for the military.
Audaciously, White House Press Secretary Sarah H. Sanders on Wednesday attacked Representative Frederica Wilson, who first disclosed the fiasco of the call to the Johnson family, for “trying to politicize this issue,” as though Trump had not done that with his answer at the press conference on Monday.
Where will the latest self-inflicted crisis go? It is, of course, unpredictable. Respect for the troops has typically been a dangerous third rail for politicians, though Trump has grasped the electrified rail repeatedly throughout his presidency and lived to tell the tale. But the Inauguration Day and “wiretapping” incidents both offer some hints.
In each of those cases, the error was unforced. Photos that revealed that the crowds at Trump’s inauguration were smaller than at Obama’s first inauguration were, perhaps, wounding to the pride of a man who wants everything to be the biggest and best, but the story would have quickly faded. Yet whenever there’s a comparison with Obama on the table, the president seems unable to resist the bait. The Trump administration decided to pick a fight, deleting a National Park Service tweet comparing crowds and marching then-Press Secretary Sean Spicer out the next day to upbraid reporters and insist to them, against all available evidence, that in fact Trump’s crowds were bigger. A day after that, Kellyanne Conway went on Meet the Press and uttered her infamous claim about “alternative facts.” That pair of incidents immediately poisoned whatever good will or willingness to start afresh the press corps might have had, established the administration’s weakness for bogus claims, and, with“alternative facts,” provided a convenient shorthand for that tendency.
The wiretap claim followed a similar arc. With stories of Russian interference in the election bubbling in March, Trump uncorked a series of tweets on a Saturday morning, beginning with, “Just found out that Obama had my ‘wires tapped’ in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is McCarthyism!” There was no evidence for the claim except speculation by conservative journalists Mark Levin and Breitbart, but once again, the specter of Obama seemed to drive Trump to distraction.
Trump proceeded to demand that Congress investigate and insisted he had evidence for his claim, even as he failed to provide it. The ensuing circus led to Representative Devin Nunes, a close Trump ally and the chair of the House Intelligence Committee, being forced to recuse himself from the Russia investigation (though he continues to involve himself). Later in March, James Comey testified to Congress that there was no evidence of a wiretap—a conclusion the Trump Justice Department has since affirmed—and also disclosed that the FBI was investigating whether the Trump campaign colluded with Russia to interfere in the election. Nunes’s tainting of the House Intelligence Committee process and Trump’s decision to fire Comey on May 9 were both key catalysts of Robert Mueller’s appointment as special counsel, which threatens the Trump administration on many fronts.
If these two examples hold, here are three predictions: In the immediate term, Trump’s unforced error will crest and then decline, eventually fading into a new news cycle. In the longer term, however, this flap will undermine faith in the administration and have unintended side effects for Trump’s presidency. Finally, whatever else happens, it’s only a matter of time before Trump finds himself unable to resist another comparison with Barack Obama, and as a result, inflicts another crisis on himself.


President Trump criticized a new bipartisan deal aimed at stabilizing Obamacare exchanges, a day after he publicly praised the proposal. Trump disputed an account that he was insensitive during a phone call with the widow of Sergeant La David Johnson, one of four U.S. servicemen killed in Niger on October 4. But Johnson’s mother said Trump “did disrespect” her son. The White House reportedly drafted a sympathy statement for Trump to make after the servicemen were killed, but he never released it. Appearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee, Attorney General Jeff Sessions defended Trump’s decision to fire former FBI Director James Comey and said he had not been questioned by Special Counsel Robert Mueller.
Drama in the Scouting World: The Boy Scouts’ decision to admit girls into its Cub Scouts program is a major reversal that could offer more opportunities for young girls—while ultimately hurting the Girl Scouts. (Elaine Godfrey)
Real Consequences: Last week, President Trump ended cost-sharing reductions, a move health-policy experts argue caused instability in the individual-insurance market. Here’s what that means for people relying on Obamacare. (Olga Khazan)
The Devastation to Come: The extent of the damage left behind by Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico has yet to be realized. “All of this is just the beginning,” said one environmental activist. “This is catastrophic.” (Vann R. Newkirk II)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

What Trump Promised: President Trump reportedly offered the father of a fallen U.S. soldier $25,000. But he never followed through. (Dan Lamothe, Lindsey Bever, Eli Rosenberg, The Washington Post)
Modus Operandi: After almost a year in office, President Trump has solidified his doctrine: “Obama built it. I broke it. You fix it.” (Thomas L. Friedman, The New York Times)
Just Threats: Steve Bannon has threatened to go after the Republican establishment ahead of 2018, but the former White House strategist “hasn’t demonstrated the ability to put tactical bite behind his bark.” (Josh Kraushaar, National Journal)
What Else Is Keeping the GOP in Line?: If President Trump signs a tax-reform bill, “he might as well be signing his political death warrant.” Matt Latimer explains why. (Politico)
A 21st Century Police State: Welcome to Kashgar, a city in remote Western China that one researcher calls the “frontline laboratory for surveillance.” (Magha Rajagopalan, BuzzFeed)
‘Inside the Campaign Merch Graveyard’: Elaina Plott discovers what happens to all the campaign merchandise—from Jeb! t-shirts to Marco Rubio cufflinks—after the race is over. (GQ)
How Single-Payer Works: Democrats are eyeing a change to the nation’s health-care system. See how the system is funded now—and how it would look under a single-payer plan. (Kim Soffen, The Washington Post)
Senators Dianne Feinstein and Chuck Grassley are two of the oldest and longest-serving members of Congress, and both could be sticking around for the foreseeable future. The Atlantic’s Michelle Cottle reported on Monday that younger politicians are growing frustrated with what they view as out-of-touch lawmakers clinging to power by continuing to serve well into their 70s and 80s.
Do you think there should be an age limit for politicians? Why, or why not?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


ARECIBO, P.R.—“There’s no way there were just 45 deaths,” said Myrna Conty, an environmental activist whose work takes her regularly across the most remote parts of the island. She scoffed at the radio reports of the official death toll, a common refrain among Puerto Ricans whose personal stories—a cousin who died needing dialysis here, a neighbor who simply hasn’t been heard from there—when multiplied 3.5 million-fold make the official estimate seem impossible.
We’d followed the path that Hurricane Maria’s eye had taken along the highway to the west of San Juan. Three weeks after the storm, the tropical green was just starting to come back, sprouting over the brown wounds of mud and giant trees pulled up from their roots. Here in Arecibo, a small municipality about 40 minutes from San Juan on a good day, high-water marks from the flood stood out on building walls, seven or eight feet high. Obliterated houses marked the deserted hamlets along the road. Smokestacks had been snapped in half and wires lay slack where giant power pylons had fallen. The Río Grande de Arecibo that cuts through the municipality remained an swollen brown expanse, still threatening to drown bridges and homes. Arecibo was a ghost town.
But Conty’s dismay was also about the destruction that couldn’t be seen. For Conty, an old-guard environmental warrior in the countryside, Arecibo had been one of the key battlegrounds in her groups’ fights to contain poisons that affect much of Puerto Rico. But all of the signs around us showed that the battle had been—at least for now—lost. Across the island, residents already beset by water and food shortages are also facing real threats of contamination that have already spread illness and worse. “All of this is just the beginning,” Conty said. “This is catastrophic.”
Maria blew through the island in a matter of hours, but what was left behind wasn’t just traditional hurricane damage. The storm uncovered and intensified long-term environmental challenges that have long blighted Puerto Rico and now threaten its future. And securing a viable future for the island will mean more than just rebuilding what was lost from the wind and rain—it will require addressing those challenges in sustainable ways.
Residents across the island have had to drink water contaminated with sewage, and their water purification systems have largely failed in the wake of the storm, the AP reports. In the municipality of Dorado, about 15 miles to the west of the capital, citizens resorted to drinking well water from Superfund sites, according to local news reports and an EPA brief. The vulnerability of Superfund sites during disasters has been vividly illustrated by the ecological damage in Texas during Hurricane Harvey—and before that, in Louisiana during Katrina and New Jersey during Sandy—but in Puerto Rico, where water deliveries have been bottlenecked by supply and infrastructure issues, those vulnerabilities are much more pronounced.
CNN reported on Saturday that the Puerto Rican water utility had pumped water from a well in the Dorado Groundwater Contamination Site, which had been closed off to avoid human exposure to the carcinogens tetrachloroethylene and trichloroethylene, in order to distribute water to citizens who’d queued up in long lines. While the well in question had been found to be within certain federal safety standards for the industrial chemicals chloroform and PCE, residents await further tests to assess the quality of the Dorado water.
“Following reports of residents attempting to access water wells at Superfund sites in Puerto Rico, EPA sent assessment teams to evaluate sites in Dorado, Caguas, and San Germán, Puerto Rico,” a spokesperson with the EPA’s Region 2 office said. Those teams are looking at the security of the contaminated sites and the condition of the wells they contain, but still have not been able to visit five Superfund sites on the island.
But wells are only one of the avenues by which people are exposed to water pollution, especially where flooding from Irma and Maria was worst. Arecibo is one such place. Myrna and I visited the Battery Recycling Company, an old temporarily-closed facility that in its heyday smelted used batteries into lead ingots, and now sits behind a rusting fence just off the highway. The site was just added to the Superfund list in July of this year, after the EPA found that lead dust from the facility had contaminated local homes and families.
While the Region 2 office says that after Maria, the EPA “completed the assessment of Battery Recycling Company Superfund site in Arecibo on September 22,” and that it had “not identified any contaminants leaving the site,” residents were skeptical. A man who greeted us near the facility, who declined to be identified, shared photographs of the entire facility still flooded four days after the storm. Conty, who leads a coalition of local residents against the siting of additional incinerators and landfills in the areas, echoed their concerns. “This was all flooded,” she told me. “That water has to be contaminated with lead, because it’s in the ground. It’s everywhere.”   
Even without the danger of pollutants leaching from Superfund sites, the water in Puerto Rico is still a problem. The Río Grande de Arecibo, which carves its way into the highlands from Arecibo, and is connected to the interior town of Utuado by the Río Viví tributary, has been polluted at multiple points along its route. The EPA found that an active paper and plastics factory in Utuado has been dumping and leaking wastewater in the Viví for 40 years, and the factory itself was named to the Superfund National Priorities List in 2009. Further downstream, the municipality of Arecibo was cited in 2012 under the Clean Water Act for dumping stormwater and untreated sewage into the river, after which the waste wound up in homes that had been flooded by the river. The river has been declared an “impaired” watershed under that act, from both chemical and biological pollution. And that’s the same water that brought an eight-foot inundation and a layer of mud to Arecibo during the storm.
Other parts of the island face the danger of long-term corruption of drinking water supplies after Maria. I found Ruth Santiago, an environmental lawyer based at the Inter American University Law School in San Juan, holding an open-air legal clinic session, training lawyers to offer pro bono legal aid for numerous environmental and housing complaints. Santiago told me that communities in southeastern Puerto Rico, where much of the island’s power is generated, had seen their grievances with the local industry balloon since the storm.
“On Saturday [October 7], we were over at Miramar in Guayama, which is a coastal community of fishers and former sugar cane workers and people who’ve sort of been excluded from the kinds of development you might see in the metro area,” Santiago said. “We were at the house of Mavet Colon-Perez. She’s 17 years old, and she took it upon herself to take a picture of the mountain of coal ash.”
Colon-Perez’s photos show what residents of Guayama claim is large-scale leaching of lime and other chemicals from local waste piles from the AES coal plant. AES Puerto Rico did not immediately respond to requests for comment, but a September 18 press release on the company’s website says that “AES-PR has implemented the necessary measures to guarantee the safety of the communities surrounding its plant in Guayama and that of its personnel activated to work during the hurricane.”
Since Santiago’s visit, lines of communication and roads out of San Juan have worsened. I was unable to reach Colon-Perez or her family to confirm Santiago’s account, or the local authorities to secure comment.  But residents from dozens of other municipalities have contacted Santiago’s legal clinic since the storm with their concerns over drinking water and industrial pollutants.
Just as the dire situation in Puerto Rico after the storm is at least in part an outgrowth of existing financial and infrastructural woes, the ubiquitous threats of contamination are outgrowths of problems that plagued people before the storm. Indeed, the island’s financial crisis was also an environmental crisis. Much of the commonwealth’s debt is attributable to PREPA, the island’s government-owned power authority, whose ongoing problems produced rolling blackouts even before Maria.
Like most islands, Puerto Rico is largely reliant on petroleum derivatives and coal for power, using very few renewable sources, even as backups for the primary grid. For years the PREPA has shipped diesel and fuel oil to the island for use in its centralized power plants, a power plan that ensures environmental fallout and maximizes emissions.
The other major portion of the Puerto Rican portfolio is coal, a source that might provide more problems for residents recovering from two hurricanes. The AES facility in Guayama is the lone coal-power plant on the island. It sits just miles away from the oil-power PREPA Aguirre plant in Salinas. In May, AES filed a petition with the EPA to lift some of the restrictions of its placement of coal ash, citing the island’s economic problems.
Southern communities have long complained about coal-ash waste from the plant, and in 2016 environmental activists in the southwestern community of Peñuelas were successful in blocking coal-ash dumping there. But since the island’s landfills are overflowing, piles like the mountain of coal-ash that Colon-Perez documented near Guayama still dot the Puerto Rican landscape, and waste disposal has become a pressing concern.
According to Santiago, who hails from Salinas, the problems of coal power and waste disposal impose a severe burden on the most vulnerable populations in Puerto Rico. “Places here near landfills, plants, and coal ash tend to have a higher poverty rate, a higher unemployment rate, and one of the highest levels of people of African descent,” Santiago told me. “It’s a classic environmental-justice situation.”
Conty, who has been involved in protests against the conversion of an old asbestos-lined paper mill into a waste-to-energy incinerator in Arecibo—a plan touted as an answer to both the island’s trash and the energy problems—agreed with that assessment. “It’s always in the poor communities,” she said as we toured the flooded grounds of the mill. Somehow the signs that Conty’s activists placed on a tree in front of the proposed site asking passersby to honk their horns to support the anti-incinerator group survived the storm that had stripped sheets of metal and girders from the mill itself. “I take it as a sign that Maria was actually against the incinerator,” Conty said.
The problems in Puerto Rico feel almost too big to grasp. The mounting pressures of an aging and inefficient energy infrastructure, multiplying contaminated sites, waste disposal, and the most contaminated drinking water supply in the United States have long pointed in the direction of disaster. And now the problems are so much bigger. Tons of manmade debris and millions of pounds of foliage clog streets and waterways, and threaten to produce an acute trash and pollution crisis in the months to come. At least four hurricane-related deaths have been attributed to diseases like leptospirosis from bacteria in water, a number that seems likely to rise.
And in the constant state of emergency, the most expedient solutions—like rebuilding the fossil-fuel grid, utilizing even more diesel power, lifting coal-ash restrictions, and creating new incinerators—will likely be pursued regardless of their contribution to long-term environmental problems. Additionally, EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt seems determined to ease the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act guidelines that help contain the worst of the pollution from landfills and plants.
But some citizens are attempting to combat pollution even as they work to stave off the worst after the storm. In the flickering downtown lights of San Juan, the prominent Puerto Rican journalist Jay Fonseca regularly holds meetings of concerned citizens who are attempting to offer services that FEMA and the local government have been unable to provide, but in a sustainable manner. I attended one such meeting last Wednesday. “We just said ‘Fuck it, we’ll do it,’” Fonseca told me afterwards. “We don’t want politics involved, and we aren’t asking for their permission.”
To provide those services, Fonseca’s ad hoc group is utilizing a new online disaster response and triage app, Connect Relief, in order to gauge the needs of desperate people across the island and find sustainable ways to meet them. Right now, reusable water filters are the most pressing concern, but the group has pursued a number of initiatives—from setting up solar-powered microgrids to using unused shipping containers to create “islands of sustainability” in relief camps. One member of the group, Maria Elena García of the Organización Pro Ambiente Sustentable (OPAS), says that she plans to study the U.S. Virgin Islands’s effort to create a chop-and-compost program for organic storm debris instead of burning it as a template for Puerto Rico’s trash problems.
Fonseca’s own pet project is the creation of a solar-powered laundromat, where local families can rotate laundry shifts on any day the sun is shining. “It’s a model community,” he told me.
Unfortunately, solar power is mostly unattainable as a source of immediate relief for most Puerto Ricans. These days, San Juan is abuzz with the name of Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk, who donated $250,000 and an unspecified number of Powerwall solar batteries to the island, but so far those donations have provided little in the way of scalable energy. On October 5, Musk floated the idea on Twitter of Tesla helping rebuild the entire Puerto Rico power grid using renewable sources, but no concrete plans have yet emerged. When reached for comment, a Tesla spokesperson told me in an email that “it is too preliminary to comment on a story at this point, but [we] welcome you to follow Elon on Twitter.”
Necessity prevails, and those places that do have access to solar power have been pillars of the recovery. They offer glimpses of what life on Puerto Rico might look like in a more sustainable future. At the northern tip of the island, in Old San Juan, Eddie Ramirez’s Casa Sol bed and breakfast has become the de facto hub of the surrounding neighborhood, since (as the name implies) the business is completely powered by solar panels and a solar battery.
“I figured that we lived on a tropical island,” Ramirez said, “so going solar seemed like a good idea at the time.” Ramirez’s good idea is now a one-stop shop for community residents, who often come by to freeze their water, charge their phones, or do their laundry. The hotel lost four solar panels in Hurricane Maria, but Ramirez was able to quickly replace them after the storm passed.
Like many intact hotels, Casa Sol also houses journalists, FEMA contractors, charity workers, and storm victims who lost everything. But unlike most other hotels, residents at Casa Sol can grab hot showers, use WiFi, and even watch the news now and then when the battery is charged. “Just like everyone here, I try to do my part,” Ramirez told me. “It’s not a lot, but it’s what we have.”
Most places in Puerto Rico don’t have a Casa Sol nearby, and most residents don’t have the means to purchase solar batteries. But Ramirez’s example shows the simple advantages that investment in resilience and renewable energy can have in a disaster, a need that will only be more pressing in the years to come. The most ominous portent for Puerto Rico is that experts don’t view this extreme hurricane season and multiple direct hits to the island as aberrations, but as previews of the new normal in the near future of a changing climate.
David Ortiz, the executive director of the Enlace Latino de Acción Climática, says that climate change has already been wreaking havoc on the island, and that it now creates a positive feedback loop with related environmental terrors. “We didn’t need a hurricane to say climate change exists, because we’ve been seeing it already,” Ortiz notes. “I think people are learning that they need to better prepare themselves. Folks aren’t understanding that climate change is real. But they are now.”
The impacts on Puerto Rico in the past two years alone look like something out of a disaster movie. With changes in ocean temperature and acidity, corals in the island’s barrier reef have suffered bleaching. Beaches have eroded, and wetlands have been degraded. Agriculture has suffered three straight bad seasons, and in 2015 the territory faced a severe drought that forced authorities to implement widespread water rationing. And now Irma and Maria have brought the message home: Here, sustainability is literally survival.
For Ortiz, in the wake of federal decisions that have left the island disadvantaged in almost every way and local decisions that have worked against sustainability almost at every turn, the onus is on Puerto Rican citizens to ensure their own survival. “We’re all victims helping victims,” Ortiz told me. “You’re suffering too, but at the very same time you’re leading a relief effort. It’s hard. It’s mentally exhausting, and it’s also physically exhausting.”
“This could take us backwards, but this is an opportunity to move forward,” he continued. “We can redefine ourselves as a people, as an island, and as a country, and recognize that we live in a different world now.”


PHILADELPHIA—During the 15 months that Allen Woods has been held, awaiting trial, at a federal detention center downtown, he has only seen his six-year-old son once. This has been hard on them both, as they used to spend time together almost every day. Woods would pick his son up from school, take him to T-ball practice—all the things that an involved parent does.
“A child that was raised with both parents and one is suddenly taken away—he is going to be confused,” the boy’s mother, Chamira Williams, told me. “He has been depressed, confrontational, not understanding why he can’t see his father. It’s hard.”
The detention center is the federal version of the local county jail; most inmates there haven’t been convicted of a crime, while a small minority is serving short sentences. The center’s rules, which appear to be the most restrictive in the country, prohibit any inmate awaiting trial from having a visitor who is not an immediate family member; only a parent, step-parent, foster parent, sibling, child, or legal spouse qualifies. That means that Williams, Woods’s ex-girlfriend, is barred. And without relatives willing or able to accompany her son on a visit, the restrictions effectively block him, too. “I should have the option to take him to see his father,” Williams said.   
In theory, the impact of this policy would be minimal, as it applies only to the pretrial period. But in reality it can take months or years for a case to make its way through the court system—delays brought on and exacerbated by public-defender shortages and case backlogs. Woods faces charges of possession of large amounts of marijuana with the intent to distribute. Ironically, when he is finally sentenced—and no matter the verdict—he will have a much easier time seeing his son.
Woods is one of two named plaintiffs in a federal class-action lawsuit filed last week against the detention center’s warden, which alleges that the visitation policy makes it “impossible or unreasonably difficult for many pretrial inmates to see their minor children while in custody.” It estimates that, out of the roughly 900 pretrial inmates, there are more than 100 whose children have a tough time visiting—whether those kids are with a romantic partner they aren’t married to, with an ex-girlfriend or -boyfriend, or with an ex-spouse. Woods’s attorney, Dana Bazelon, told me that prior to the policy change in July 2016, the visiting room would be “packed” any time she went to see a client, but “now it’s a different world in there—there are just not as many visitors.”
The lawsuit argues that the policy infringes upon the inmates’ constitutional rights—to freedom of association, against cruel and unusual punishment, and against unequal treatment without a rational basis. The suit also claims the rule is at odds with a Federal Bureau of Prisons directive that “encourages visiting by family, friends, and community groups to maintain the morale of the inmate.” Bazelon found no rule so restrictive when she surveyed other federal detention centers; they all allowed at least some visitation from non-family members. At the state level, the Mississippi Department of Corrections tried limiting visitors to its facilities to immediate family last year, citing security concerns. But the short-lived policy was postponed indefinitely following a rebuke from family members and prisoner advocates.
There are two exceptions to the Philadelphia center’s rule: one for inmates who have no living immediate family members, and another for inmates who can show a demonstrable need, including seeing a child whose other parent is not their legal spouse, Michael Carroll, the detention center’s public-information officer, wrote in an email. Those exceptions, however, can be difficult to secure. Bazelon has helped 10 or so clients apply for one, but all were denied.
The reasons varied. One inmate, for example, was rejected because he’s not listed on his son’s birth certificate. To change that, he would need to submit a notarized form to the state, but having a notary visit the prison would cost him $150—money he doesn’t have. Another could not track down the death certificate of his estranged father in order to prove he had no living family. And another asked that his ex-girlfriend be allowed to bring their child because his immediate family would not, due to a conflict. The warden’s rejection letter simply restated the center’s policy on visitors, and didn’t explain why he didn’t qualify for an exception.
Asked about the policy’s impetus, Carroll told me that restricting visitors “was necessary to enhance the safety and security of the institution.” He specifically cited an “increase in the amount of illegal drugs entering the facility through the visiting room.” Carroll did not respond to request for further comment—on the severity of the increase, any additional security steps taken, or how long the policy will stay in place. Without those answers, it’s difficult to assess officials’ plans. Bazelon, for her part, told me “the security issues that they raised could be addressed with fairly easy security measures or steps that don’t involve restricting access to kids”—like more guards in the visiting room or increased video surveillance.
That’s more or less how New York City’s Riker’s Island, the country’s largest pretrial lockup, has handled its own contraband problem. In 2015, administrators brought in more drug-sniffing dogs, installed machines to detect hidden cellphones, and launched an “amnesty program” wherein visitors are allowed—and encouraged—to hand over illicit items without risk of punishment. With these measures in place, guards seized drugs from 45 percent more visitors the following year. All along, inmates could be seen by both friends and family.
More forgiving policies reflect years of academic research, which suggest that maintaining close ties with loved ones provides emotional relief for inmates and helps with their transition back into their communities after release. Fewer studies, however, have evaluated how contact with an incarcerated parent helps children deal with the stress of their absence. In a 2015 study from Child Trends, a nonpartisan childhood-research nonprofit, the authors explained that the loss of an “attachment figure,” the psychological term for an adult with whom a child is emotionally bonded, can be potentially—and unsurprisingly—traumatic. “One thing that policymakers can do is make it easier for children to maintain positive relationships with their parents during the period of incarceration,” the authors wrote.
Woods is awaiting his trial date at the end of this month. Williams continues to struggle with helping her son cope, and he still asks frequently when he can visit Woods. “Children should have the option to see their parents no matter what the situation is,” she said. “Whatever reason he is in there, that has nothing to do with family.”


On Wednesday morning, another leading Republican senator suffered an injury that has struck lawmakers throughout the Capitol in the last nine months: presidential policy whiplash.
President Trump can’t seem to decide whether he wants Congress to pass a bipartisan deal to shore up the Affordable Care Act. On Tuesday afternoon, the president praised and appeared to endorse an agreement that aimed to stabilize the law’s faltering exchanges by restoring crucial insurer payments that Trump had cancelled last week. Hours later, however, Trump was telling a conservative crowd that he opposed “providing bailouts to insurance companies.” And by Wednesday morning, the president had formalized his criticism in a tweet.
I am supportive of Lamar as a person & also of the process, but I can never support bailing out ins co's who have made a fortune w/ O'Care.
“Lamar” is Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the Republican health committee chairman who negotiated the bipartisan accord with Senator Patty Murray of Washington State, the panel’s top Democrat. In the you’ve-got-to-give-something-to-get-something style of congressional dealmaking, the Alexander-Murray legislation would restore what are known as “cost-sharing reduction” payments to insurance companies for two years—a Democratic demand—while also making it easier for states to opt out of some of Obamacare’s regulations, which Republicans insisted on. The goal of the bill is to shore up the law in the short term and head off premium increases resulting from Trump’s refusal to reimburse insurers for subsidies they are required to pay out to lower-income consumers.
A Bipartisan Obamacare Breakthrough
Unveiling the compromise on Tuesday, Alexander made sure to emphasize that Trump had encouraged his dealmaking, and the president himself had boasted—inaccurately—that his decision to cancel the insurer payments last week had brought both parties to the negotiating table. The president had called Alexander twice in the last two weeks, the senator said, and told him “he doesn’t want people to be hurt in the interim.” Trump said as much in public on Tuesday. “It will get us over the immediate hump,” he told reporters. “It is a short-term solution so that we don’t have this very dangerous little period.”
The president called Alexander again on Wednesday morning to offer encouragement, the Tennesseean said at an event hosted by Axios. But Trump’s subsequent tweet could scuttle the deal altogether, providing cover to conservatives who are already denouncing it as a cave to Democrats and a retreat from the Republicans’ longstanding, if unrealized, commitment to repealing and replacing Obamacare entirely.
As if on cue, a spokesman for House Speaker Paul Ryan signaled opposition to the agreement after withholding judgment a day before.  “The speaker does not see anything that changes his view that the Senate should keep its focus on repeal and replace of Obamacare,” Ryan spokesman Doug Andres said. In his own series of tweets, Alexander tried to offer a path forward, saying that while his legislation had “strong language” to guarantee insurers wouldn’t simply pocket the payments from the government, he would work with Trump to make it even tighter.
Trump’s flip-flop may be jarring to Alexander, but it’s not surprising. For a president who campaigned as a decisive deal-maker, inconsistency has been a hallmark of his first year in office. Back in July, my colleague David Graham catalogued his ever-changing positions on health care.
But Trump’s handling of this latest episode closely tracks his more-recent moves on immigration. In September, the administration announced an end to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, raising the specter that millions of young people brought illegally to the U.S. as children could be at risk for deportation. As on the insurer payments, Trump couched his decision in legal terms, arguing that the administration could not act without the approval of Congress. Then, he surprised both his party and the public by floating the outlines of a deal with Democrats in which he would agree to protect DACA recipients in exchange for additional border security measures.
Yet that position, too, did not last long. After blowback from conservatives, Trump issued hardline demands that departed wildly from what he told Democrats he could accept. More than a month after Trump’s first optimistic meeting with Democrats on immigration, the DACA deal has gone nowhere.
The flirtation with bipartisanship on health care could follow the same murky path. Once again, Trump revoked a policy and is forcing Congress to restore it. But his own inconsistency seems to be standing in the way. Lawmakers on Capitol Hill often issue vague demands for “presidential leadership” when they don’t want to take responsibility for a problem or make a decision themselves. In this case, however, Trump’s opinion matters to Republicans. They need to know, first of all, whether he would sign legislation if they pass it, and second, whether he will help defend the law to conservative voters who may recoil at a measure propping up Obamacare. “You cannot govern a country if you do not know what a bill does and keep a consistent policy about it,” Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer said on Wednesday.
The president’s tweet isn’t necessarily a death knell for the Alexander-Murray deal, just like his wish list on immigration doesn’t preclude an eventual compromise on DACA. A number of Republican senators have already signaled their support for the Obamacare fix, and they could pressure the party leadership to bring it to a vote. Given that the agreement enjoys broad support among Democrats, it would likely have the votes to pass if it got the chance.
A more likely scenario, however, is that Democrats will demand that Republicans add the legislation to a broader deal to prevent a government shutdown in December. Democrats will also be pushing for a DACA bill at that time, and Trump likely will try to use those issues to extract victories of his own on a border wall, increased military spending, and other priorities.
Then again, Alexander and Murray might not have to wait that long for their Obamacare compromise to get a boost. With this president, few policy positions are permanent, and he might well change his mind again.


Thirteen days after Sergeant La David Johnson was killed in Niger, and a day after Donald Trump boasted about his actions to console grieving families in contrast to his predecessors, the president called Johnson’s family Tuesday night.
It didn’t go well.
Representative Frederica Wilson, a Florida Democrat, was with widow Myeshia Johnson when Trump called. “She was crying the whole time, and when she hung up the phone, she looked at me and said, ‘He didn’t even remember his name.’ That’s the hurting part,” Wilson told MSNBC.
How Trump Changed the Topic to Obama's Consolation Calls
“He said, ‘Well, I guess you knew’—something to the effect that ‘he knew what he was getting into when he signed up, but I guess it hurts anyway.’ You know, just matter-of-factly, that this is what happens, anyone who is signing up for military duty is signing up to die. That’s the way we interpreted it. It was horrible. It was insensitive. It was absolutely crazy, unnecessary. I was livid.”
Trump disputed that account in a morning tweet, claiming he had proof that Wilson was not telling the truth:
Democrat Congresswoman totally fabricated what I said to the wife of a soldier who died in action (and I have proof). Sad!
Trump did not say what his proof was; on several occasions, he has promised to produce recordings of conversations, only to fail to do so or admit he had none.
But Johnson’s mother Cowanda Jones-Johnson, who was also in the car, told The Washington Post, “President Trump did disrespect my son and my daughter and also me and my husband.” She declined to elaborate but told the Post that Wilson’s account was accurate.
In Trump’s defense, comforting people who have just lost a family member is difficult. They are, reasonably, upset and angry. (Dana Perino tells a story of George W. Bush being moved to tears by an angry mother.) Perhaps the president intended to say something about the sense of duty soldiers feel, and it was simply taken the wrong way.
But it’s difficult to give Trump too much benefit of the doubt, or to take seriously the White House’s statement that “the president’s conversations with the families of American heroes who have made the ultimate sacrifice are private.” By taking a question on Monday about his response to the Niger attacks as an invitation to brag about his outreach to military families, the president chose a fight about his methods of consolation, and chose to make it a public one.
On Monday, Trump told reporters he had written letters to the families of the four men who were killed in Niger, and that he intended to call them. He explained the delay, saying, “I'm going to be calling them. I want a little time to pass.”
Trump also claimed that his predecessors hadn’t done anything like that. “If you look at President Obama and other presidents, most of them didn't make calls, a lot of them didn't make calls,” he said. Later in the press conference, he backed off a little. “President Obama I think probably did sometimes, and maybe sometimes he didn't. I don't know. That's what I was told. All I can do—all I can do is ask my generals. Other presidents did not call. They’d write letters. And some presidents didn't do anything,” he said.
On Tuesday, Trump returned to the fight, saying Obama had not called John Kelly, then a Marine general and now White House chief of staff, after Kelly’s son Robert was killed in Afghanistan. “I think I’ve called every family of someone who’s died,” Trump said.
It is not just that Trump claimed, falsely, that his predecessors had insufficiently consoled grieving families of servicemembers. He also spent most of the last month wrapping himself in the flag while waging a fight with NFL players and other athletes who have kneeled or undertaken other protests during the National Anthem. The athletes say these protests are a way of bringing attention to police violence and racism. But Trump has insisted that the kneeling “has nothing to do with race. It is about respect for our Country, Flag and National Anthem.” The president has used his powerful Twitter account to pass along the idea that players who kneel are slighting the American military.
Even as he insists that NFL players are disrespecting the military, Trump did not make any public comment about the deaths in Niger until he was asked about it at a public press conference. Only after this prodding, and his bragging that he called every family he could, did Trump make a call to La David Johnson’s family. And when he did, he botched the call badly enough that he left Johnson’s widow in tears and his mother feeling disrespected. The president cannot be both the foremost patriot and the utmost consoler while at the same time dragging his feet on calls and angering military families.
What’s more, the Associated Press reports that despite Trump’s claims, he has not actually called the family of every fallen servicemember. In some cases, he has been very attentive. During a speech to a joint session of Congress in February, Trump celebrated Carryn Owens, widow of slain Navy SEAL Williams Owens, in a widely praised moment. Aldene Lee told the AP she had a touching call with Trump after her son Weston Lee was killed in Iraq.
But not everyone had that experience, the AP found:
After her Army son died in an armored vehicle rollover in Syria in May, Sheila Murphy says, she got no call or letter from President Donald Trump, even as she waited months for his condolences and wrote him that “some days I don’t want to live.”… The Associated Press found relatives of two soldiers who died overseas during Trump’s presidency who said they never received a call or a letter from him, as well as relatives of a third who did not get a call.
In summary, Trump spent weeks portraying himself as the defender of the flag and the military, then dragged his feet on responding to the deaths of soldiers, then lied about how he handles deaths, and then offended the family of a slain soldier. Meanwhile, intentionally or not, Trump has entirely derailed any conversation about the mission the soldiers were conducting in Niger.
Having decided to push his line on Tuesday and then attacked Wilson on Wednesday, the president now has a choice on whether to escalate or to try to calm matters. Trump has picked a fight with Gold Star families before, after Khizr Khan’s dramatic speech at the Democratic National Convention. (Notably, one common thread between the Khan and Johnson cases is that both cases involve families of color.) At the time, that seemed like political suicide, and Trump was the target of widespread bipartisan condemnation. Yet a few months later, he was elected president. And now, serving as commander in chief, the AP revelations and the Johnson family’s anger suggest he may soon again be feuding with the families of servicemembers killed in action.


Last week, the New York Times and The New Yorker published multiple allegations of abhorrent sexual misconduct against the movie producer Harvey Weinstein, drawing on years of costly investigative reporting; risking legal retaliation that could cost millions to litigate; and forcing its subject from his powerful perch in Hollywood, where his ability to lure aspiring film starts into hotel rooms is all but gone.  
The episode was a credit to the reporters, editors, and publishers who broke the story; an example of why it is vital to support an independent press that probes wrongdoing; and a spur to examine all the factors that delayed the truth outing for so long, including apparent failures by some journalists and news-gathering organizations.
Still, it was surreal to see pundits employed by populist news organizations that didn’t break the story characterizing it as a dark moment for the liberal mainstream media.
Take Sean Hannity, who works at the Fox News, which didn’t break the story, and beneath Rupert Murdoch, who owns all sorts of media properties that didn’t break the story. “Everybody in Hollywood knew. This wasn't a secret,” Hannity declared. “Everybody knew apparently in the news media too, and everybody in the political world.”
Did Brit Hume know? Did Bret Baier? Did Chris Wallace?
His guest, RNC spokesperson Kayleigh McEnany, called out NBC, which employed Ronan Farrow before he took his reporting to The New Yorker. “I just have to say Sean, this is sick,” she said. “This is the media elite covering for the Hollywood elite.” But she wouldn’t know the story save for liberal media elites in L.A. and New York City!
Nevertheless, the segment ended with this surreal exchange:
Hannity: Journalism is dead, Kayleigh, I've been telling people forever. Is this now the final nail in the coffin?
McEnany: It should be!
Tucker Carlson, another Fox News pundit, used his show to attack a long list of liberals for staying silent despite knowledge of abuse, among them magazine editor Tina Brown. She worked for Harvey Weinstein while running Talk magazine starting in 1998. “Brown conceded yesterday that there were whispers about Weinstein’s behavior,” Carlson said. “She admits she saw Weinstein give favorable treatment to beautiful women he was cultivating. She saw him quash negative articles about himself by leaking information about other stars. Yet despite all of that, Brown tells us, nobody really knew for sure. Oh, come on. I worked for Talk magazine at the time. Trust me. Tina Brown knew. She was Weinstein’s business partner for two years and a famously perceptive person. And yet until now she’s never mentioned any of it.”
The condemnation was intentionally vague. Tina Brown “knew” what, exactly? That Weinstein was a creep? That seems obvious. That multiple women had accused Weinstein of sexually assaulting them? That is rather different knowledge. Did she have it? If so, did she have proof those rumors were true? Because there are right-leaning media outlets that savage liberal women who alleged sexual misconduct without proof. And what if Brown had proof but the victim didn’t want to go public?
I don’t know what Brown knew, or when. Neither does Carlson. But I do know that Carlson is sanctimoniously scolding a woman for failing to call out Weinstein, despite all the legal and social risks that doing so would have entailed, even as Carlson explicitly holds himself to a very different standard on the same subject.
Here’s a relevant passage from a GQ profile of the Fox News host:
At Fox, he has a resolute policy of see no evil, hear no evil. “I have few rules, but ‘Don’t criticize the boss’ is one of them,” says Carlson. He offers platitudes of thanks to Roger Ailes, who, like O’Reilly, left the network following widespread accusations of sexual harassment. “He was an amazing guy,” says Carlson. “He was one of the most interesting people I’ve ever met, a really insightful, deep person and a great guy to talk to.”
For a smart man, Carlson can play dumb with the best of them—he is well informed, except when it doesn’t serve him. Call it Tucker Disassociation Syndrome. Ask where he sees Fox News going after a year of chaos and he chuckles. “I’ve been so busy with my show, I haven’t thought about it at all.” He professes to know little about Sean Hannity’s ludicrous charge that nefarious killers somehow connected to the Democratic Party had murdered Seth Rich, a low-level DNC staffer. I ask Carlson about his take on the Hannity-Rich fiasco. “If I attack Hannity for being a right-winger, I would be adding my voice to a chorus,” says Carlson. “I’d rather express opinions that aren’t being expressed elsewhere.”
Compare how Brown talks about Weinstein now that the allegations against him are public with how Carlson talks about Roger Ailes now that the allegations against him are public; one wonders how the Fox host can be such a sanctimonious demagogue on air without losing all respect for himself when the lights dim. The liberal Brown turns out to be superior by the Swamp-dwelling pundit’s own standards. And that’s to say nothing of how he and his network have treated multiple, credible accusations of sexual misconduct against the president of the United States.
A similar dearth of self-awareness played out at Breitbart. Its namesake founder, Andrew Breitbart, created a “Big Hollywood” vertical way back in 2009 with the explicit mission of taking down an industry he regarded as deeply corrupt and filled with bad people. It is hard to imagine a scoop that would’ve been more beloved to the Los Angeles-based company than taking down a huge producer and major Democratic donor.
Yet the publication didn’t have a clue as to the truth about Harvey Weinstein. (Its focus was … elsewhere.)
Nevertheless, here’s John Nolte, who has been around Breitbart since almost the beginning:
Hollywood knew.
The national media knew.
The entertainment knew.
And for decades they have protected, enabled, and openly celebrated evil.
Which makes them evil.
Nolte would be unable to make those undifferentiated condemnations of “the national media” if not for the reporting, editing, and lawyering of national, mainstream media organizations. He signals moral superiority with the best of them when attacking the liberal media; yet the alternatives he allies with are parasitic on it.
Breitbart’s overarching posture toward the mainstream media is as shortsighted as it is idiotic. My colleague McKay Coppins captured it in his recent Columbia Journalism Review article “What If the Right-Wing Media Wins?” Its most memorable quotes come from the Breitbart News Washington editor Matt Boyle. “Journalistic integrity is dead,” he said. “There is no such thing anymore. So everything is about weaponization of information.” It’s a position one might come to if surrounded by the sort of people who disproportionately staff Breitbart, or if trying to rationalize a dearth of integrity in the media product one helps produce; but it cannot account for the New York Times’ and the New Yorker’s work on Harvey Weinstein.
“We envision a day when CNN is no longer in business,” Boyle declared. “We envision a day when The New York Times closes its doors. I think that day is possible.”
If Matthew Boyle had gotten his way last year, Harvey Weinstein would still be a powerful Hollywood producer able to summon aspiring teen actresses to his hotel suites.
If he ever gets his way, the beneficiaries will be corrupt, powerful actors in Hollywood, Washington, D.C., Silicon Valley, and elsewhere—corrupt actors on the left and on the right—because like a petulant child throwing a tantrum with lit matches in a dry forrest, Boyle and his ilk will have destroyed that which they lack the talent to recreate.
Why didn’t NBC provide better backing for Ronan Farrow after assigning him the story?
I’d like to know.
I’m glad that the New York Times is delving into the matter, as it possesses the professional talent to find an answer. As yet, The Daily Beast has offered more information than the entire conservative media. I’m glad to know Jake Tapper of CNN is on the case too; that the Columbia Journalism Review is doing press autopsies of the coverage; and that various mainstream media organizations are probing the ways that the press could have performed better, as is routine in this industry of ombudsmen, press critics, and journalism reviews. If the right-wing media were a fraction as self-critical about their tribe’s shortcomings they’d have more to offer.
They could begin here: A Weinstein groping incident “made tabloid headlines in April 2015, and the New York Daily News even reported at the time that Weinstein’s denial might be contradicted by an NYPD sting tape, which hadn’t surfaced until Farrow’s piece,” Politico reports. “The same day, entertainment gossip site Defamer—once part of the Gawker Media empire—asked readers for information about Weinstein’s ‘open secret’ and optimistically predicted that ‘accusations that once existed only as loud whispers were finally being dragged into the light.’”
So much for a liberal conspiracy of silence.
Meanwhile, the victim of that incident, Battilana Gutierrez “was smeared in the gossip pages as a gold digger.” Smeared in which gossip pages? Among others, The New York Post, a Rupert Murdoch owned tabloid and one of the only papers to endorse Donald Trump. The Huffington Post published this screenshot of the Post’s 2015 coverage:
Even now, right-wing populists will not investigate how this happened.
Right-wing press critics like Sean Hannity and John Nolte are not invested in truth enough to tackle angles that reflect badly on their tribe, even when its behavior is worse on a story they purport to care about. They work for organizations that advanced the Weinstein story much less than even NBC, yet still dedicate all their energy to attacking the left, evincing not an ounce of curiosity about how their tribe might produce journalism that better serves the public. It’s as if, without admitting it to themselves, they see their tribe as incapable of reporting even scoops they believe everyone knows. God save America if they ever reduce the Fourth Estate to their level.


Last week, the Boy Scouts of America announced it would reverse its century-old policy of no girls allowed—and the Girl Scouts aren’t happy.
“Why not ask us how we could help them serve the 90 percent of the boys they’re choosing not to serve instead of pursuing serving girls?” asked Lisa Margosian, the Girl Scouts’ Chief Customer Officer, in an interview.
On October 11, the Boy Scouts said it will begin accepting girls into its Cub Scouts program, as well as establish a program for older girls to earn their Eagle Scout Award. The reaction from many, including some former Boy Scouts, was one of outrage: Why should girls join a boys’ organization when there’s already one specifically designed for girls? The Girl Scouts felt the same way. In a blog post on October 11, the organization called itself the “girl leadership expert,” and stressed the power of the “single-gender environment.”
The Boy Scouts’ decision is a major reversal from an organization that has always been staunchly committed to single-sex programming, and has, in its early history, bristled at the idea of girls getting involved in scouting. While the change does offer another choice for young girls, it also introduces a new competitor into the field of girls programming, which could ultimately hurt the Girl Scouts and undermine their mission to cultivate leadership skills and self confidence in young girls. (For full disclosure, I was a Girl Scout throughout elementary and high school, although I’m no longer directly involved with the organization.)
Starting next year, the Cub Scouts, which is an introductory Boy Scout program made up of boys in first through fifth grades, can opt to create girls-only packs or co-ed packs with girls-only dens. (In Cub Scouting, packs are comprised of dens, which are smaller groups of scouts.) And by 2019, the Boy Scouts say they will also offer a program for older girls to earn the Eagle Scout Award. The Boy Scouts currently offer a handful of smaller co-ed programs, like Venturing and Sea Scouting, but none are as prominent as the Cub Scouts.
The Boy Scouts say they’re doing it to make life easier for busy families with multiple children who might want to enroll their kids in a single organization. But the move could also help the organization grow its steadily declining membership.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
In its official response to the news, GSUSA accused the Boy Scouts of adding an “accelerant” to its “house fire” of an organization, referencing recent allegations of sexual abuse within the Boy Scouts, as well as accusing it of offering “deficient programming.” Margosian told me she was disappointed when she learned of the Boy Scouts’ decision. “In many communities across the country we’ve really worked together to serve youth,” she said. “So I think it’s disappointing that when they started to contemplate this three years ago, they didn’t reach out.”
The two organizations disagreed over how clued-in the Girl Scouts were before the decision to admit girls was made. The Boy Scouts said they held several phone and in-person meetings with the Girl Scouts to discuss the move, but the Girl Scouts say that no one from BSA reached out to them before or after the announcement—that the Girl Scouts  took the initiative to contact BSA but were only able to after the issue of admitting girls was already decided.
In clear contrast with the Girl Scouts’ swift and aggressive comments denouncing the Boy Scouts’ decision, Margosian said she isn’t worried that girls will choose Boy Scouts over Girl Scouts. “There will be some girls who make that choice, but the reality is we, for 105 years, have really focused on serving girls and their emotional, psychological, and developmental needs,” she said. “We’ll be sorry for those girls because they will miss out on the best experience, and that’s just a shame.”
The experts I spoke with were doubtful that the Girl Scouts’ current membership would be significantly affected—but they acknowledged that they might lose some potential scouts. “I don’t think there’s going to be a whole lot of impact as far as a whole bunch of Girl Scouts deciding to join the Boy Scouts,” said Elizabeth Searing, an assistant professor of public administration and policy at SUNY Albany and Director of the Institute of Nonprofit Leadership and Community Development. “The experience of the two organizations are very different.”
Both groups, Searing says, are embodiments of existing cultural norms—their mottos, their structures, and even their messaging. The Girl Scout program is designed to build girls’ confidence and promote girls’ participation in STEM fields, where there are historically fewer women than men. It’s also designed with the idea that single-sex environments work best for developing girls’ leadership skills.
“Who this is going to capture are the girls who are not into what Girl Scouts does,” Searing said, noting that she used to be a Girl Scout troop leader but that she and her daughter both left the organization to focus more on camping. She says the development might be good for girls like her daughter who simply weren’t interested in the Girl Scout model.
The Boy Scouts say their Cub Scouts’ program offers a more gender-neutral approach, and they don’t plan on tailoring it for girls. From a societal perspective, their decision means more options for girls to pursue their interests. As my colleague James Hamblin wrote on Monday, accepting girls into the Cub Scouts might put the Boy Scouts in a better position to address gender fluidity and will give boys more opportunities to interact with girls.
But it doesn’t seem like the move was intended that way.
“I find it interesting that now it seems to be cast as a progressive move on the part of the Boy Scouts,” said Susan Miller, an assistant professor childhood studies at Rutgers University. “It’s hard for me to believe it’s a philosophical change.” Rather, she said, “it’s kind of an attempt at a hostile takeover.”
In an interview, Boy Scouts spokeswoman Effie Delimarkos denied this. “This isn’t an intent to take away any membership from the Girl Scouts. This is an effort to try to extend the benefit of scouting to families.” she said. “If families love the Girl Scout program, then we hope they stay and grow and advance in the program.”
But the about-face on gender is surprising, and experts say they were just as blindsided as the Girl Scouts claim to have been. After all, the Boy Scouts have never been as welcoming or open to change as the Girl Scouts. Barbara Arneil, a political science professor at the University of British Columbia, told me that observing the complicated relationship between the two organizations “is all the context you need to understand why the Girl Scouts are quite justifiably upset about this decision.”
In a 2010 essay published in Perspectives on Politics, Arneil described the Girl Scouts’ progressive streak as being baked in at the organization’s conception. In 1910, the father of scouting, Robert Baden-Powell, established the Boy Scouts Association in the United Kingdom. But, despite enthusiasm from girls who had eagerly attended the first Scout Rally in 1909, he excluded them from the group, and later started a separate group for girls called the Girl Guides.
In 1912, Juliette Gordon Low held the first U.S. meeting of the Girl Guides in Savannah, Georgia. The Boy Scouts were vehemently against the group, and took pains to disassociate themselves from the girls: After the Girl Guides changed their name to the Girl Scouts in 1915, the Boy Scouts sued them for using the word “scouts,” claiming they “sissified” the word. And during the Girl Scouts’ early years, the Boy Scouts encouraged them to emphasize domesticity over traditional scouting. “From that very beginning they were two different organizations,” Arneil said, “with Girl Scouts speaking to the equality of girls.”
The scouting movements grew throughout the early 20th century, but in the 1970s, both groups’ membership began to decline. The organizations offered different responses to the changes brought on by the Civil-Rights Movement, with the Girl Scouts making a point to embrace diversity and be open to change, while the Boy Scouts, Arneil said, became “very reactive, very conservative, and very exclusionary.”
Though it originally had segregated troops, the Girl Scouts pushed for desegregation in the 1950s, and in 1956, Martin Luther King Jr. described the organization as "a force for desegregation.” The Girl Scouts were organized as a non-sectarian group, and in 1993, the organization voted to allow girls to substitute another word for “God” in the Girl Scout Promise, encouraging members “to establish for themselves the nature of their spiritual beliefs.” In 2011, the Girl Scouts clarified that it would accept all girls who identify as female, including lesbian and transgender girls.
The Boy Scouts, on the other hand, have had many well-known membership controversies. The organization continues to prohibit atheists and agnostics from its membership, and it wasn’t until 2015 that it lifted the ban preventing “open and avowed homosexuals” from holding leadership positions. Transgender boys were allowed to join the organization starting in January of this year. Because of these differing policies, Arneil said, “the Girl Scouts grew back in numbers, whereas the Boy Scouts continually declined.”
When asked about her organization’s history, Delimarkos told me that the Boy Scouts have made a great effort to improve communication with their membership, and make scouting accessible to all kids. After all, she says, all youth organizations need to focus on nurturing all young leaders, regardless of their gender.
But the experts I spoke with, including Arneil, aren’t so sure it’s an overall positive move. “It’s taken so long for the Boy Scouts to embrace change, so I think that the idea of them opening up … is a very good thing,” Arneil said. But ultimately, their choice to include girls and take on their sister organization as a market competitor, could be seen as “another example of this long history of hostility toward the values of the Girl Scouts.”


When Donald Trump last week opted to decertify the nuclear agreement that Barack Obama forged with Iran, it appeared to fit a pattern in the president’s emerging foreign policy. In withdrawing from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal and the Paris climate-change accord, in announcing that he was “canceling” the U.S. opening to Cuba, Trump seemed similarly determined to dismantle Obama’s achievements in international affairs. “The organizing principle for how he approaches foreign policy appears to be, in part, trying to look like he’s doing the opposite of his predecessor,” Ben Rhodes, Obama’s former deputy national-security adviser, told me.
But to the extent that Obama’s foreign-policy legacy is under threat, it’s not only Trump that’s doing the threatening. Some accomplishments are fraying for reasons that have nothing to do with the 45th president’s apparent contempt for the 44th. Obama’s legacy partially depends on his bets that certain countries—Cuba, Iran, Burma—would, with time, respond positively to diplomacy, which the former president once described to The Atlantic as “the element of American power that the rest of the world appreciates unambiguously.”
Yet in the admittedly short time since Obama left office, those bets haven’t paid off unambiguously. The Obama administration’s efforts to encourage Burma’s transition to democracy and to create favorable conditions for Iranian leaders to moderate, for instance, are now in jeopardy in large measure because of actions taken by those governments. These shortcomings raise questions about whether Obama, who considers himself a realist, was overly optimistic about the possibilities of engagement.
Conversely, Trump has quietly continued some of his predecessor’s  initiatives. In substance though obviously not in style, Trump has retained certain features of Obama’s campaigns against ISIS and North Korea’s nuclear-weapons program. The focus on Obama’s record also obscures the broader challenge Trump poses to U.S. foreign-policy traditions that stretch back decades.
The Obama Doctrine
Consider the cases in which events beyond Trump’s control are undercutting Obama’s policies. Obama made the first American presidential visit to Burma to reward democratic reforms by Burma’s authoritarian military government. Now Burma’s security forces—with surprisingly little resistance from the nation’s democratically elected, semi-empowered leaders, including the reputed democracy activist Aung San Suu Kyi—have engaged in what UN officials have condemned as “ethnic cleansing” against a Muslim minority group. The torching of villages and slaughter of civilians has sent hundreds of thousands of Rohingya fleeing to Bangladesh. This outcome was hardly unforeseeable. In late 2016,  as Obama lifted U.S. sanctions against Burma, the country’s military carried out a brutal scorched-earth campaign against the Rohingya that presaged its more recent one.
Then there’s the Cuba opening. The Trump administration recently expelled 15 Cuban diplomats from the United States, pulled non-essential personnel from Cuba, and warned Americans not to travel to the island. They did this not to erase Obama’s Cuba policy, but because someone—and there’s no public evidence yet that it was the Cuban government—appears to have sickened nearly two dozen American diplomats, perhaps using mysterious sonic weapons. (Rhodes acknowledged that the U.S. government had to respond to the attacks on its officials, but said Trump’s reaction was too “punitive.” As for the lack of democratic reforms by the Castro government since Obama touched down in Cuba to “bury the last vestige of the Cold War in the Americas,” Rhodes argued that “they’ve proceeded at the pace of reform that I think would be expected—we never promised a transition of the Cuban political system quickly. What we wanted to see was more engagement, more investment in the Cuban private sector, and ultimately the promotion of reform in Cuba through American travel, American commerce, American and other ideas reaching Cubans.”)
Meanwhile, Obama prided himself on keeping the United States out of new military quagmires—on endeavoring to leave his successor with a “clean barn”—but his failures to halt North Korea’s nuclear-weapons advances, tame the Taliban and other militant groups in Afghanistan, and stanch the bloodletting in Syria saddled the Trump administration with the prospect of new or renewed military conflicts in those countries. In announcing a troop increase in Afghanistan, for example, Trump argued that Obama’s war plans were too focused on withdrawal timelines rather than “conditions on the ground.” In explaining why Trump launched strikes against the Syrian government for using chemical weapons, after Obama recoiled from a similar decision in 2013, National Security Council spokesman Michael Anton claimed that the president thought it would help restore American “resolve in the war.”
Even with Iran, the situation is more complicated than the headline news of Trump declining to certify Obama’s nuclear deal. (It’s worth noting that in decertifying, Trump has has left the agreement itself intact, but asked Congress to consider whether the United States should remain in the pact, blow it up, or seek to revise it legislatively.) Obama administration officials always insisted that the nuclear deal was just that: a deal to prevent the Iranians from acquiring nuclear weapons. And judged by these narrow goals, the 2015 agreement has been successful. The U.S. government, UN inspectors, and the other world powers who negotiated the pact all agree that the Iranians are upholding the obligations they undertook in exchange for relief from international sanctions.
Still, what some Obama administration officials hoped but rarely said explicitly—that Iran might moderate its behavior in the Middle East by the time certain restrictions on Iranian nuclear activities lapsed after 10 or 15 years—hasn’t yet come to pass. As Philip Gordon, Obama’s top Middle East adviser until 2015, has noted, part of the administration’s theory in thinking about these “sunset” provisions was that “openness and engagement creates constituencies for cooperation” and that most Iranians, especially young Iranians, “want change in their system.” When Iran joined “the international community,” when it became less “insecure,” a new generation of leaders might recognize that “they would have more to lose by having a confrontational approach,” he said.
Gordon acknowledged, however, that there were “no guarantees.” And while Iran has tacitly cooperated with the United States against ISIS since the nuclear deal was signed, it has pursued confrontation with America in other areas. Iran has persisted with developing ballistic missiles, and sponsoring militant groups such as Hamas and Hezbollah that the U.S. government considers terrorist organizations. As the Islamic State has been uprooted, the Islamic Republic has wrested influence away from the U.S. in Iraq and joined forces with Russia and Hezbollah to prop up an American opponent, Bashar al-Assad, in Syria. “Iran actually is in a much stronger position across the region today than it was two years ago or five years ago,” The New Yorker’s Robin Wright recently observed. That is “the grounds on which the Trump administration is basing its new policy.”
Explaining his theory of diplomatic engagement in 2009, Obama observed that “in light of the Cultural Revolution’s horrors, Nixon’s meeting with Mao appeared inexcusable—and yet it surely helped set China on a path where millions of its citizens have been lifted from poverty and connected to open societies.” But recent events suggest that the Nixon-goes-to-China move doesn’t always produce economic uplift and international integration. Sometimes what follows is ballistic-missile tests and stricken diplomats and the near-purge of an entire ethnic group.
The not-Obama narrative also overlooks areas in which Trump has largely continued Obama’s policies, such as the military campaign against ISIS in Syria and Iraq and even (with the glaring exception of the administration’s escalating rhetoric about initiating another war on the Korean peninsula) elements of the previous administration’s approach to North Korea’s nuclear program, including military exercises, the deployment of missile-defense systems, and the use of sanctions to pressure North Korea into talks.
Even when Trump has appeared to wipe out Obama-era initiatives, the truth in many cases has been less dramatic. Rhodes pointed out that while Trump has placed some new restrictions on American travel and business ties to Cuba—restrictions, incidentally, that have yet to be implemented—he has not severed the diplomatic relations that Obama restored. As for the Paris climate agreement, Rhodes added, the United States can’t fully withdraw until 2020, which means a future administration could rejoin it, and every other country is sticking to the pact, which means “it remains the framework within which the world is going to deal with climate change.”
Danielle Pletka, a senior vice president at the American Enterprise Institute, expressed similar skepticism about Trump’s actions—but argued that in several instances they didn’t go far enough in overturning Obama’s initiatives. “I think of the Trump administration as [having] a very scattershot, not principle-driven, not ideology-driven foreign policy,” she told me. “And insofar as things have gotten rolled back, they’ve gotten rolled back in very nominal ways rather than in meaningful ways that actually reverse the failures of the previous eight years.”
In Syria, for example, “the Trump administration doesn’t say, ‘We need a systematic effort to roll back the failings of the [Obama] administration and show once again that America is the tribune of human freedom in the world,’” Pletka noted. “What they say is, ‘Oh wow, episodically, that chemical-weapons attack was a horror. Let’s hit those guys.’”
Trump has also made clear that his iconoclasm extends far beyond the last administration, according to Jeremi Suri, a historian of the American presidency at the University of Texas at Austin. Trump hasn’t just nixed the TPP; he’s signaled that the North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico—which was implemented under Bill Clinton, after the groundwork was laid by Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush—could be next. And though it’s common for a new administration to try to distinguish itself from the previous one, Suri said what sets Trump apart is that he “is trying to undo these broader strategic commitments that in fact predate Obama—many of them go back to Ronald Reagan.”
It’s more common for presidents to make tactical adjustments to predecessors’ policies—see Obama trying to exit Iraq quickly without fundamentally changing the U.S. role in the Middle East. As a result, from Eisenhower and Kennedy to Bush and Obama, there has often been more continuity than change when it comes to the grand strategy of U.S. foreign policy.
That’s why Rhodes is alarmed by Trump’s flippant handling of the commitments the United States made to Iran, its European allies, and China and Russia as part of the international pact. Trump’s decision not to certify the nuclear agreement seemed to stem from “a desire to tear up the deal … [prompting] a search for a justification for tearing up the deal,” Rhodes says. The risks of that approach may not yet be apparent, he adds, but they will be. “There’s a tail to the things that you do on foreign policy—it takes some time for the chickens to come home to roost,” he said. “And it can feel like there’s no cost to standing up and decertifying the Iran deal. But you’re playing a serious game of chicken in terms of what comes next—whether or not Iran restarts its nuclear program, whether or not the Europeans defy additional U.S. sanctions, whether or not there is an increased risk of conflict in the Middle East, whether or not the dollar as the world’s reserve currency is put at risk because we continue to use our sanctions as an extension of domestic politics.”
Speaking to reporters last week, John Kelly, Trump’s chief of staff, offered a different interpretation of why Trump has pursued the policies he has. “I don’t mean any criticism to Mr. Trump’s predecessors,” Kelly said, before laying the criticism on thick: “But there is an awful lot of things that were, in my view, kicked down the road that have come home to roost, pretty much right now, that have to be dealt with.”


Representative Tom Marino withdrew his name from consideration to be the White House drug czar following the publication of a news report that revealed he had tried to hinder government efforts aimed at combatting the opioid epidemic. Senators Lamar Alexander and Patty Murray reached a bipartisan deal to stabilize Obamacare, which President Trump supported as a temporary fix. After Senator John McCain condemned the “half-baked, spurious nationalism” in America’s foreign policy, Trump said he would “fight back.” A federal judge in Hawaii blocked the third version of Trump’s travel ban the day before it was slated to take effect. The Defense Department launched an investigation into the deaths of four U.S. soldiers in Niger.
Commanding Without Policy: President Trump’s main achievements in office thus far have not hinged on any policy proposals of his own. Instead, he’s largely focused on dismantling Obama-era policies. (David A. Graham)
LBJ, Culpable Commander in Chief: From The Butler to Selma, Hollywood has tended to emphasize President Lyndon B. Johnson’s civil-rights legacy. But that ignores the recklessness with which he handled the Vietnam War, argues Julian E. Zelizer.
Claiming Victories: Is Trump responsible for the Dow hitting an all-time high? Despite his tweets, writes Gillian B. White, the president has a very small role in the stock market’s success.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Us Too: As allegations of sexual misconduct against movie mogul Harvey Weinstein swirl in Hollywood, women in California politics are calling out the “pervasive” culture of harassment in their industry. (Melanie Mason, Los Angeles Times)
Tillerson, Unraveled: Nine months into his presidency, Donald Trump still hasn’t built a rapport with his secretary of state. The question now isn’t what’s preventing Rex Tillerson from quitting; “it’s what’s stopping Trump from firing him.” (Jason Zengerle, The New York Times)
The Mutineers in 2018: If President Trump continues to align himself with the Republican establishment, like he did in his press conference with Mitch McConnell on Monday, then he risks losing the loyalty of the “vanguard of insurgents” from which his campaign sprang. (Noah Rotham, Commentary)
Trump’s Silence on Talk Radio: Conservative talk-radio hosts, including Rush Limbaugh and Laura Ingraham, are some of President Trump’s most vocal supporters. So why hasn’t he done a single interview with either of them since becoming president? (Oliver Darcy, CNN)
Innocent and in Jail: Some prosecutors are jailing innocent crime victims and witnesses in an attempt to compel them to appear in court. The stories of these New Orleans material witnesses, however, reveal something more sinister. (Sarah Stillman, The New Yorker)
Putting Up Roadblocks: Since Republicans were unable to pass health-care reform, President Trump has taken steps to chip away at Obamacare. Here’s what the Trump administration has done to undermine the law. (Kim Soffen, The Washington Post)
Senators Dianne Feinstein and Chuck Grassley are two of the oldest and longest-serving members of Congress, and both could be sticking around for the foreseeable future. The Atlantic’s Michelle Cottle reported on Monday that younger politicians are growing frustrated with what they view as out-of-touch lawmakers clinging to power by continuing to serve well into their 70s and 80s.
Do you think there should be an age limit for politicians? Why, or why not?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey), Lena Felton (@lenakfelton), and Taylor Hosking (@Taylor__Hosking)


Being a liberal in the Donald Trump era is tricky. On the one hand, you’re grateful for any conservative who denounces the president’s authoritarian lies. On the other, you can’t help but notice that many of the conservatives who condemn Trump most passionately—Bill Kristol, Bret Stephens, Michael Gerson, Jennifer Rubin—remain wedded to the foreign policy legacy of George W. Bush. And in criticizing Trump’s amoral “isolationism,” they backhandedly defend the disastrous interventionism that helped produce his presidency in the first place.
The godfather of this brand of hawkish, anti-Trump conservatism is John McCain. Sure, McCain—being a Republican Senator—doesn’t condemn Trump as forthrightly as his “neoconservative” allies in the press. But the terms of his critique are similar.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
Look at his speech on Tuesday after being awarded the National Constitution Center’s Liberty Medal. In a clear swipe at Trump, McCain warned that, “To fear the world we have organized and led for three-quarters of a century, to abandon the ideals we have advanced around the globe, to refuse the obligations of international leadership and our duty to remain ‘the last best hope of earth’ for the sake of some half-baked, spurious nationalism cooked up by people who would rather find scapegoats than solve problems is as unpatriotic as an attachment to any other tired dogma of the past that Americans consigned to the ash heap of history. We live in a land made of ideals, not blood and soil. We are the custodians of those ideals at home, and their champion abroad.”
As a man, McCain is as honorable as Trump is dishonorable. But this narrative is false. The last seventy-five years of American foreign policy are not the story of a country consistently pursuing democratic ideals, only to see them undermined now by a fearful “blood and soil” isolationism.
Between 1947 and 1989, the defining imperative of American “international leadership” was anti-communism. At times, anti-communism nurtured ideals of freedom, human dignity and peace. In the name of anti-communism, America protected fragile democracies in West Germany, Italy and Japan. In the name of anti-communism, the United States fed Europe’s starving post-masses via the Marshall Plan. In the name of anti-communism, the United States committed itself to Western Europe’s defense, thus keeping German nationalism in check and laying the groundwork for a postwar economic boom.
But anti-communism also justified America’s overthrow of elected governments in Iran, Guatemala and Chile. It justified Ronald Reagan’s decision to label Nelson Mandela’s African National Congress a terrorist organization and America’s longtime assistance to the kleptocratic Congolese dictator Mobutu Sese Seko. And far from keeping the peace, it led the United States to drop more bombs on Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War than it had during World War II.
Since 1989, this moral duality has continued. The United States has sought to extend its global preeminence while battling a range of enemies—from “rogue states” seeking “weapons of mass destruction” to hyper-nationalists murdering ethnic minorities to jihadist terrorist groups—that challenge the American-led order. During the Gulf War, this imperative led the United States to strengthen the United Nations and defend international law. But during the Iraq War, it led the United States to defy international law and obliterate the Iraqi state, thus creating the conditions for ISIS. In Bosnia and Kosovo, American power helped stop genocide. In Libya, it helped create chaos.
The point is that American “leadership” sometimes furthers the ideals that Americans revere and sometimes it desecrates them. Sometimes it makes America stronger; sometimes it doesn’t. McCain’s implication is that it’s only when American “abandon[s]” and “refuse[s]” its leadership role that it fails its people and the world. But that’s not true. Over the last fifteen years, in a spasm of military hyperactivity, the United States has toppled governments in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya, in wars that have cost America dearly, and bred more conflict in their wake. Trump won the Republican nomination, in part, because—facing establishment candidates who would not criticize George W. Bush’s foreign policy—he condemned such adventures and pledged to avoid new ones.
McCain is right to (obliquely) condemn Trump’s hostility to refugees, his indifference to human rights and obsession with ensuring that America’s allies don’t rip it off. But that’s not the same as foreign policy restraint. Sometimes America best serves its people and its ideals by not trying to bend the world to its will. Harry Truman was right to reject preventative war when the Soviet Union was racing towards an atomic bomb; Dwight Eisenhower was right to accept a draw rather than seek the reunification of Korea in 1953; John F. Kennedy was right to admit failure in the Bay of Pigs rather than launch an American invasion of Cuba; George H.W. Bush was right not to march to Baghdad at the end of the Gulf War, and Barack Obama was right to accept an imperfect nuclear deal with Iran rather than risking a fourth war in the greater Middle East.
John McCain once understood that. As a young congressman in 1985, he told the Los Angeles Times that America was neither “omniscient nor omnipotent. If we do become involved in combat, that involvement must be of relatively short duration and must be readily explained to the man in the street in one or two sentences.” In violating that principle, George W. Bush—with the support of an older John McCain—helped discredit the Republican foreign policy establishment, and lay the groundwork for Trump’s nationalist insurgency.
Now McCain and many of his hawkish allies are criticizing Trump’s amoral nationalism, which is good. But until they question the disastrous overstretch that helped create it, they will remain his useful ideological foils.


Updated on October 17 at 5:42 p.m. ET
When it comes to the Affordable Care Act, Congress may fix what President Trump tried to break.
Senators Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and Patty Murray of Washington state announced a tentative agreement on Tuesday that would shore up Obamacare’s shaky insurance exchanges, offering the first glimmer of bipartisan dealmaking after months of GOP attempts to rip out the law.
The accord between Alexander, the Republican chairman of the Senate health committee, and Murray, the panel’s top Democrat, would restore for two years the payments to insurance companies that Trump canceled last week. And in what Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer described as “anti-sabotage provisions,” the deal would also force the administration to spend $106 million in funds that it cut from outreach programs to encourage enrollment in the health law’s exchanges.
In exchange, Democrats agreed to expand eligibility for cheaper, catastrophic insurance plans and to make it easier for states to opt out of some of Obamacare’s regulations—while still protecting the law’s core protections for people with preexisting conditions and the requirement that insurers cover essential health benefits.
“Overall we are very pleased with this agreement,” Schumer told reporters. After a lunchtime briefing from Murray, Schumer said there was broad support among Democrats for the deal. But more importantly, it appeared to win an endorsement from Trump just days after he scrapped the very payments—which he derided as an insurer bailout—the senators are trying to restore. “It will get us over the immediate hump,” the president said when asked about the agreement at a White House press conference. “It is a short-term solution so that we don’t have this very dangerous little period,” he added, while insisting that Republicans would continue trying to replace the law entirely.
Alexander and Murray have been negotiating for more than a month, since the GOP’s plan to repeal and replace Obamacare initially failed over the summer. But their talks took on new urgency after Trump announced last week that he was axing the payments known as “cost-sharing reductions,” which reimburse insurance companies for subsidies that the federal government provides to lower-income Americans who buy coverage on the ACA exchanges. Those payments have been the subject of litigation from House Republicans over whether Congress explicitly signed off on them when it passed the health law. Trump cited the lawsuit in withholding them, but his administration had been making the payments anyway for months, and the timing of his decision to cut them off was widely seen as an attempt to unravel Obamacare just weeks before next year’s enrollment period is set to begin.
Trump's Assault on Obamacare Could Revive a Deal in Congress
The president’s move prompted immediate spikes in premiums in certain states, and it raised the possibility that more insurers would leave the market altogether. Democrats were outraged, and many Republicans were annoyed over the possibility that they would draw the blame from constituents who’d see their health-care bills go up and their choices go down. “After he did what he did, the negotiations got better for us,” Schumer claimed. A document sent to Republican offices summarizing the agreement on Tuesday warned of “chaos” in the insurance markets if it was not enacted and that the fallout would create a “four-lane highway to single-payer” favored by liberals.
While Trump’s endorsement could be crucial, the fate of the Alexander-Murray deal is uncertain. It will need to win the support of Republican leaders in both the House and Senate, none of whom were willing to give it yet. “We haven’t had a chance to think about the way forward yet,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said after the Republicans met on Tuesday. Before the Senate failed in its last repeal attempt in September, Speaker Paul Ryan had warned that the House would not consider an attempt to shore up the ACA. His office wasn’t commenting on Tuesday.
It’s also unclear just how firmly Trump will back the agreement once all of its details are known. In recent days, the president has veered from declaring Obamacare dead and boasting about his role in killing it to taking credit for spurring an outbreak of bipartisanship on Capitol Hill. As recently as Friday, Trump’s budget director, Mick Mulvaney, was pooh-poohing the framework that Alexander and Murray were working on.
Alexander insisted to reporters and then in a speech on the Senate floor that Trump was encouraging his effort. The president, he said, had called him twice in recent weeks and told him he “doesn’t want people to be hurt in the interim.” But the Tennessee senator acknowledged that it wasn’t his agreement with Murray that mattered, but whether “a significant number of Republican and Democratic senators” would soon get behind it. “We wouldn’t have come to an agreement ourselves if we didn’t think that was likely,” Alexander said.
At a minimum, Republicans were demanding substantive changes to the ACA’s waiver program that would relax insurance standards for states, and it remains to be seen whether the Alexander-Murray deal would meet their test. Democrats were willing to expedite the process and allow governors to sign off on waivers without approval from their state legislatures. But they were leery of changes that could allow states to wriggle out of Obamacare’s core requirements, which is what Senators Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Lee of Utah had been pushing for as part of the GOP repeal proposals.
Conservatives had been warning against any agreement to prop up what they consider to be a failing law. “A deal that helps people sign up for Obamacare when Obamacare should be repealed doesn’t sound encouraging,” tweeted Dan Holler, a spokesman for the advocacy group Heritage Action. Representative Mark Walker of North Carolina, chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee, also panned the agreement. “The GOP should focus on repealing & replacing Obamacare, not trying to save it. This bailout is unacceptable,” he said in a tweeted statement. Indeed, Democrats had been worried that Trump’s attacks on the insurer payments as an industry payoff would doom their chances of winning Republican support for an agreement to restore them. But Schumer said the ultimate legislation would address that concern. “They cannot use the money for themselves,” he said of the insurers. “They have to pass it on to consumers.”


With the political press in a volley of anonymous leaks and counterleaks about how Barack Obama did or did not console John Kelly after his son’s death, it’s important to reflect on how we got here—and what it shows about President Trump’s methods of controlling the media and the news cycle.
First, a brief timeline. On October 4, four U.S. Special Forces soldiers were killed in an ambush in Niger, a country where the United States is not formally at war, and where American troops were supposedly in an advisory and training role. For 12 days, Trump said nothing about the deaths, even as he opined about plenty of other things. The White House was not forthcoming with information, either.
Why Trump Accused Obama of Not Consoling Families of Fallen Soldiers
On Monday, Trump threw an impromptu press conference, and was asked about the deaths. “Why haven’t we heard anything from you so far about the soldiers that were killed in Niger? And what do you have to say about that?” a reporter asked.
Reading that question charitably, the reporter wanted to know both why the voluble Trump had been so quiet and also what had happened to the soldiers and why they were on patrol in Niger. But Trump took it only to have the first meaning, and as an affront. He reacted somewhat defensively, comparing himself—as he is wont to do—to previous presidents:
I’ve written them personal letters. They’ve been sent, or they’re going out tonight, but they were written during the weekend. I will, at some point during the period of time, call the parents and the families—because I have done that, traditionally. I felt very, very badly about that. I always feel badly. It’s the toughest—the toughest calls I have to make are the calls where this happens, soldiers are killed. It’s a very difficult thing. Now, it gets to a point where, you know, you make four or five of them in one day—it’s a very, very tough day. For me, that’s by far the toughest.
So, the traditional way—if you look at President Obama and other presidents, most of them didn’t make calls, a lot of them didn’t make calls. I like to call when it’s appropriate, when I think I’m able to do it. They have made the ultimate sacrifice.
Aides to both Obama and George W. Bush reacted angrily, saying both men had taken many steps to console the families of slain service members. A few moments later, reporter Peter Alexander of NBC asked how Trump could claim Obama never called families, and Trump backed off, a little:
I don’t know if he did. No, no, no, I was told that he didn’t often. And a lot of presidents don’t; they write letters. I do a combination of both. Sometimes—it’s a very difficult thing to do, but I do a combination of both. President Obama I think probably did sometimes, and maybe sometimes he didn’t. I don’t know. That’s what I was told. All I can do—all I can do is ask my generals. Other presidents did not call. They’d write letters. And some presidents didn’t do anything. But I like the combination of—I like, when I can, the combination of a call and also a letter.
Trump’s claim that some presidents “didn’t do anything” appears to be bogus, but there’s also no indication that Obama called the family of every soldier, sailor, marine, or airman who died during his presidency (nor, for that matter, that Trump has done so). In anti-Trump precincts, there was immediate fury—first, that he had claimed that some presidents didn’t reach out to families at all, and second, that he’d turned the question of slain soldiers into a matter of oneupmanship with other presidents. Four Americans were dead, the president had golfed rather that attend the return of their coffins, and now here he was making it a political matter.
But by inspiring that immediate fury, Trump had already shifted the conversation away from the question of why the troops were in Niger, and away from the question of why Trump had said nothing about their deaths until asked. Then on Tuesday morning, he picked up on the grain of truth in his original statement—Obama had not called the family of every slain soldier—and pushed it forward.
“As far as other presidents, I don’t know, you could ask General Kelly, did he get a call from Obama? I don’t know what Obama’s policy was,” Trump said on Fox News radio, referring to his chief of staff, John Kelly, whose son was killed in Afghanistan in 2010.
That has produced a new maelstrom. First, several journalists reported, using unnamed sources, that Obama had not called Kelly. Then others reported, again with unnamed sources, that Kelly sat with First Lady Michelle Obama at a gold-star breakfast in 2011. Still others dug up old comments from Kelly that emphasized how Kelly hadn’t wanted his son discussed publicly. “The death of my boy simply cannot be made to seem any more tragic than the others,” he wrote in an email.
So by Tuesday afternoon, Trump had pushed the conversation even further away from the actual question of the fallen soldiers. He’d begun with a largely false diversion about other presidents’ consolations; then, he focused on the deeply narrow question of whether Obama had called the Kellys. This is a clever trap for media outlets. If they don’t take Trump’s lead and report out whether Obama called Kelly, he’ll bash them for not pursuing questions unfavorable to Obama; if they do take his lead, they’re following him down a rabbit hole. (This does not justify the use of unnamed sources on this story; if current White House staffers or Obama-allied sources want to participate in this volley, why can’t they be named?)
Is Trump’s decision to bring Kelly’s son into the debate tacky and graceless? Of course it is, especially in light of Kelly’s past statements begging superiors not to bring it up. Yet the pundit outrage on Kelly’s behalf is peculiar. He’s a grown man, a retired four-star general, and if he is offended by it, he always has the option to remonstrate with Trump or even to resign. Harping on Trump’s gracelessness is perhaps cathartic for his critics, but it’s only going to make him look bad to people who already dislike him. His fans, by contrast, will see a case of the president being crucified for making a claim—Obama didn’t call every gold-star family—that turned out to be true.
And that’s where things stand now. The debate is now over what Barack Obama did or didn’t do and, to a lesser extent, whether Trump’s response measured up. We still don’t know whether Trump’s letters to the families of the fallen soldiers have actually been sent.
CNN reports that almost two weeks after the deadly firefight, the Pentagon still doesn’t understand what happened, and is conducting a preliminary review to see whether there should be a formal investigation and whether military procedures need to be changed. The president of the United States has made no comment on the deaths of four soldiers except to exculpate himself. Beyond that, a president who promised to pull the United States back from its engagements around the globe hasn’t made any statement to the American people about why Special Forces soldiers were in Niger, why they were out on patrol despite their advisory role, who was responsible for their deaths, or why it’s important for U.S. troops to be in West Africa.
Trump is eager to talk about the troops when he is accusing NFL players of disrespecting them by kneeling during the National Anthem. But conversations about what American troops are doing in places like Niger and why are complicated, difficult, and uncomfortable for Trump and everyone else involved. It’s much easier to snipe about which president’s consolations were most patriotic than to actually talk about the troops as anything more than a signifier.


President Trump’s pick to be White House drug czar, Representative Tom Marino of Pennsylvania, withdrew his name from consideration on Tuesday following the publication of a critical news report. It detailed how a law he wrote at the behest of pharmaceutical distributors has made it harder for the federal government to combat the opioid epidemic.
Trump announced Marino’s withdrawal on Twitter, calling him “a fine man and a great congressman!” His exit seemed likely after the president repeatedly declined to give him a vote of confidence during a press conference on Monday.
What the 'Crack Baby' Panic Reveals About The Opioid Epidemic
The fourth-term Republican congressman had been at the center of a joint investigation by The Washington Post and “60 Minutes” that seemed to have all the elements of the D.C. “swamp” culture Trump has pledged to drain. Former top officials at the Drug Enforcement Administration alleged that a law Congress wrote and passed without significant public debate effectively stripped the agency of its power to go after opioid distributors who turned a blind eye to suspicious sales, which poured millions of prescription pain pills into U.S. cities and towns.
The whistleblowers, led by the former head of the agency’s Office of Diversion Control, pinned much of the blame on ex-DEA officials who passed through the Beltway’s infamous “revolving door” and became highly-paid industry lobbyists. But it was Marino, a former prosecutor, who introduced and shepherded to passage the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act, which raised the standard for the DEA to be able to suspend shady drug shipments. The Post and “60 Minutes” reported that the text of the bill was actually written by a former senior lawyer at the DEA, and Marino overcame objections from the agency and the Justice Department to get a version of the legislation passed by Congress and signed into law last year by former President Barack Obama. When reporters tried to interview Marino in person for the story, his office called the Capitol Police.
This is the second time Marino has pulled out of consideration to be the director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. Trump had been weighing his nomination in the spring before Marino cited a “critical family illness” in withdrawing his name. But with the job still unfilled months later, the White House announced in early September that Marino would indeed be the president’s nominee. As Trump noted on Monday, Marino had been one of the earliest congressional supporters of his campaign.
On Monday, Democratic Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia said he would introduce legislation to repeal the law that Marino got passed. But that may not be so easy: Later in the day, Republican Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah delivered a floor speech defending the measure and accusing the Post and “60 Minutes” of airing a “one-sided” account of its enactment. Marino, who has not spoken publicly about the report, will remain in Congress.


Last week was a banner week for Donald Trump—after the first week of his presidency, perhaps the most productive, at least in terms of raw political accomplishments.
The two big headlines, pulling the plug on subsidies in Obamacare insurance markets and tossing the Iran nuclear deal to Congress, are both highly fraught. Yet with these two decisions, President Trump has brought himself closer to following through on major campaign promises than nearly anything else he has done as president.
Trump Has Quietly Accomplished More Than It Appears
There are two notable things about the moves. First, they are both incomplete. President Trump has neither repealed and replaced Obamacare, nor has he shredded the Iran deal. Second, they have real potential downsides. Ending the Obamacare subsidies could end with millions of people losing their health insurance, a disaster both moral and, potentially, political. And decertifying the Iran deal could allow it to build nuclear weapons, and undermine American credibility in the Middle East and beyond for decades to come. Taken together, though, they show how Trump’s accomplishments at this stage in his presidency are almost entirely destructive, rather than constructive. Trump made his reputation as a builder, but he’s made demolition his mode in the White House.
Trump has not yet found a way to get Congress to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. Several attempts by lawmakers came to naught—and although it’s still possible that leaders in the House and Senate could try to revive repeal, neither leaders nor rank and file seemed eager to fight another bruising internecine fight, and the repeal effort only went as long as it did because Trump almost single-handedly willed it to do so. Part of the problem is that the Republican Party is deeply divided over the aims of a replacement, and so is the president. His statements about what he wants out of a new system are self-contradictory and frequently change.
While Trump has not yet found a way to fix the health-care system, he has found a way to further break it—and to get political credit for doing so. As my colleague Olga Khazan explains, the revocation of the subsidies could destroy the entire market for private insurance, which is just what Trump would like credit for.
“You saw what we did yesterday with respect to health care,” he said Friday at the Values Voter Summit. “It's step by step by step. And that was a very big step yesterday. Another big step was taken the day before yesterday. And one by one it's going to come down, and we're going to have great health care in our country.… We're taking a little different route than we had hoped, because getting Congress—they forgot what their pledges were. So we're going a little different route.”
As for that “great health care,” Trump is leaving it all up to Congress, trying to force it to come up with something. He still hasn’t put forth a coherent health plan of his own. It’s no wonder that GOP lawmakers are expressing unease about the subsidies’ demise. Between their own dysfunction and Trump’s disinterest, the prospects for avoiding market collapse seem dim.
The Iran deal fits a similar mold. Trump promised during the campaign to negotiate a better deal with Tehran, but since he entered office, reality has begun to pinch him. Neither Iran nor the American allies who are party to the deal are willing to reopen it. Trump seems to have preferred to simply walk away from the deal, though his aides convinced him instead to instead decertify it and, yet again, pass the buck to Congress.
That’s risky, as the president acknowledged during a Cabinet meeting on Monday. “I'm not going to blame myself,” he said of Congress. “I'll be honest. They’re not getting the job done.”
I have written previously that the chaos and disorder that characterize the Trump administration often eclipse his accomplishments, which will shape American society for decades. But nearly all of these things—with the notable exception of appointing Justice Neil Gorsuch and a handful of other federal judges—are cases where Trump has dismantled something, not built it. This is true of a slew of environmental regulations overseen by both the EPA and the Interior Department; financial-industry regulations; and the Paris climate accord, from which Trump has announced plans to withdraw the United States.
What these things share is that they are all doable by executive fiat, without the involvement of Congress. Trump doesn’t have to negotiate with leaders in Congress, try to strong-arm legislators (a task which he has approached with everything from indifference to incompetence), or wait for action. The judicial nominations are similar, in that although they require Senate consent, Trump has not faced any major battles over nominees thus far. (However, of 50 Trump nominees to courts, only seven have been confirmed so far.) The problem is that Trump has not found ways to use executive orders to achieve proactive measures. It is much easier for a liberal president to enact new things with executive orders, as Barack Obama did, than it is for Trump to achieve his goals through the same means. And when he has tried, as with his travel ban, he has often been slapped down by the courts.
Even when Congress is not a factor, however, the Trump administration appears to struggle to work constructively. On October 9, Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, announced he would move to repeal the Clean Power Plan, the Obama-era carbon-regulation rule. While the Trump administration, with its obsession with coal jobs, seems to lean toward scrapping the rule entirely, many figures in the energy industry actually favored not total elimination but a softer rule, because they fear courts will otherwise step in and require stricter rules. The EPA says it’s going to write a new rule, eventually, but no one seems to expect that to happen any time soon.
The political ramifications of Trump’s destructive approach are difficult to read. The funny thing about much-maligned campaign promises is that politicians usually intend to keep them, and usually succeed. If Trump continues to fail to actually get things done, will that hurt him?
One test case might be tax cuts. It’s the last, best chance for the Republican Party to achieve a major legislative victory, having struck out on health care and everything else so far. Senator Lindsey Graham said of reform on CBS’s Face the Nation on Sunday, “If we don't, we're dead.” That may be true for the GOP in Congress, but it’s unclear if it applies to Trump. The president’s Gallup rating over the eventful last six weeks has bounced between 37 and 38 percent—miserable, but apparently in a stasis impervious to most outside forces.
Why has his support proven so resilient? For one thing, many Trump voters harbored ambivalence about him in the first place. They didn’t necessarily think he had the temperament to be president, exit polls showed; they thought he was not qualified. But their level of pessimism, and anger at the way the government was working, meant that they didn’t care—when Democrats warned that Trump would blow up the system, they nodded in agreement, and figured that was a good thing. Whether or not Trump is managing to fix health care or negotiate better deals, he’s destroying the status quo quite effectively. He’s helped out by slavish defenders like Newt Gingrich, who argues that anyone who takes issue with Trump is simply bitter: “Donald Trump really is draining the swamp, and the alligators are really unhappy.”
Trump also inoculates himself from any danger caused by his habit of tearing down and not rebuilding by not telling the truth about it. Michael Kruse nicely illustrated Trump’s habit of simply claiming he has achieved what he manifestly has not.
Trump can exaggerate his accomplishments, and he can shift some blame to Congress, and he can portray it all as swamp-draining, but at some point these tactics are likely to reach a limit, even if it’s impossible to guess quite when. The challenge is underscored by Trump’s signature campaign promise: He’ll have to build the wall, and some other things besides it, to succeed.


President Lyndon Johnson has enjoyed a remarkable run in Hollywood. Next month, the most recent addition to the fictional canon will be Rob Reiner’s LBJ, a movie starring Woody Harrelson as the oversized Texan who dominated American political life like almost no one else in the 1960s. Reiner’s film revolves around Johnson’s transition from serving as a frustrated vice president to becoming the president in November 1963 following President John F. Kennedy’s assassination. The film culminates with the passage of the historic Civil Rights Act of 1964 that desegregated public accommodations in the South. Like many recent films on LBJ, Harrelson plays Johnson as crass and ugly, but also as a politician whose heart was in the right place on the key domestic issue of the time.
In certain respects, producers, directors, writers, and actors who tend to lean toward the left have treated their work of this president as part of a broader effort to rescue American liberalism from its worst mistakes, to capture the hope that existed with Johnson’s White House in 1964 and 1965 before it was overwhelmed by Vietnam.
The irony for anyone who had been alive in the tumultuous Age of Aquarius is how easy it has become for intelligent audiences to forget the issue that loomed largest in the dark days of 1968: Vietnam.
The effort to save Lyndon Johnson “the southern liberal” from Lyndon Johnson “the war monger” started back in the 1970s. Films have undertaken a heroic effort to remind audiences of the progressive vision that shaped LBJ when he finally reached the Oval Office. In the 1978 television film King, LBJ was played by Warren Kemmerling as a shrewd politician who helped guide Martin Luther King Jr. toward the kind of grass-roots activities that would pressure Congress into voting for civil-rights legislation. In Lee Daniels’s The Butler, Liev Shreiber memorably captures an LBJ who starts by sitting on a toilet barking out racial expletives at his advisers as he asked them to help him keep black protesters “off the street” and insultingly telling his African American butler to bring him prune juice to relieve his constipation, but evolves into a president visibly moved as he watched the violence unfold in Selma on television when the police beat activists protesting for voting rights. More recently, an HBO film based on the Tony Award-winning play, All the Way, showed LBJ (played by Bryan Cranson) to be a principled liberal Democrat who was genuinely committed to pushing a bold civil-rights agenda even while he worried about a very serious political backlash. Robert Schenkkan’s riveting story captures all of the legislative cunning and political capital that Johnson deployed to move the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Selma was more critical of Johnson, emphasizing the ways that the president was complicit in J. Edgar Hoover’s smear campaign against King. Even in Selma, though, Ava DuVernay shows Johnson’s sympathy to the civil-rights cause amidst his overwhelming political fears about the activists going too far and too fast.
Hollywood has also portrayed LBJ as a skillful politician who knew how to get things done. In the era of constant gridlock that followed the 1960s, this story possesses continued appeal. Johnson’s crass and blunt mannerisms have been used to dramatize how the president’s forceful personality enabled him to move legislation through Washington’s tortured political process. Few actors have replicated the buffoon-like character that Rip Torn portrayed in a television film about J. Edgar Hoover in 1978. Instead, much more common has been the kind of acting offered by Randy Quaid in the 1987 television docudrama LBJ: The Early Years, when he brought to life the savvy and hardball style that accounted for Johnson’s meteoric rise to power, from working as a secretary to a member of Congress in the 1930s to becoming president three decades later.
Most films looking at Vietnam—like Platoon, The Deer Hunter, Coming Home, Apocalypse Now, Born on the Fourth of July, and Full Metal Jacket—have focused on the war itself and the experiences of veterans. The movies that turn to Washington have tended to paint Johnson as a Shakespearean character, tragically pushed into bad decisions. In one of the handful of movies that deals primarily with Johnson’s foreign policy, HBO’s Path to War, viewers saw Michael Gambon’s Lyndon Johnson as a tortured leader deeply committed to domestic reform but pushed by an array of devious, hawkish advisers and military officials deeper into the jungles of Vietnam. “I’m going to nip this in the bud,” Johnson promises Martin Luther King Jr., unaware of the kind of quagmire that he was getting the nation into. “I want war like I want polio,” LBJ says to Jack Valenti. “Shooting and bombing, it goes against every bone in my body.” Viewers see a president who, as he is remembered in popular mythology, was out of his league when dealing with foreign policy and, as a result, agreed to disastrous mistakes. The real villain in the film is not Lyndon Johnson—he is tragic—but Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara, played by Alec Baldwin to resemble Dr. Evil. He keeps promising the president that eventually the U.S. will be able to get out. The film was much stronger with regards to LBJ than Thirteen Days, an otherwise powerful account of the Cuban Missile Crisis that relegates Johnson to a minor role, primarily for comic relief.
Younger viewers who have grown up with these films could easily forget the front-page stories when Johnson announced that he would not run for reelection in 1968. “Johnson’s War” was raging in Southeast Asia, with American soldiers being sent home every week in body bags. Americans all over the country had family members who were already in the war or others who could soon be drafted. They watched with bated breath as the president and his advisers updated the country about what was happening overseas. By the time he left office in January 1969, LBJ had become the epitome of a bad president. The left hated him for betraying them by abandoning their domestic causes and bringing the nation into a deadly, imperialistic war. Conservatives didn’t think much of LBJ either. They believed that his misguided domestic policies had made conditions worse for law-abiding Americans, while the president’s refusal to unleash all of the nation’s airpower on communist troops had resulted in ground forces being bogged down in the jungles of Vietnam. Mainstream liberal Democrats felt more sympathetic to LBJ’s policies, but concluded that he had undermined the standing of their party and created the opportunity for someone as odious as Richard Nixon to succeed. The 1960s, they said, were supposed to end with a burst of liberal progress but instead ended with an untrustworthy, communist-baiting, law-and-order Republican taking over the presidency. Johnson was to blame.
Historians have not been as kind to LBJ as Hollywood when assessing his impact on America’s role in the world. Foreign-policy historians have produced important work in recent years showing how Vietnam was neither an inevitable mistake nor a military operation pushed on an unknowing president by advisers. Rather, a cohort of outstanding scholars has used archival records, particularly the White House presidential recordings, to show that Johnson very much knew the risks he was taking by accelerating this war, and repeatedly ignored the warnings of multiple advisers and colleagues who told him that a war in Vietnam was unnecessary and unwinnable. The most important work on this subject, Fredrik Logevall’s Choosing War, brilliantly recounts how Johnson understood all of the risks associated with sending troops into this battle and heard repeatedly from southern hawks, liberal Democrats, and foreign leaders that a negotiated settlement would be better.
But as a result of both his machismo and his desperate efforts to prevent Republicans from attacking him as weak on defense, the same sort of baldly political calculation that brought him success on domestic policy, Johnson decided to escalate the American military presence in the deadly jungles of the region. Vietnam, according to Logevall, was the result of poor presidential decision making, mistaken calculations, and a commander in chief who fully understood the problems with this operation but moved forward anyway.
The time has come for a good film that captures this other side of LBJ: not the tragic leader but the culpable commander in chief, the president who sought to protect his political standing through disastrous decisions. Americans need to see a talented actor portray Johnson reading Vice President Hubert Humphrey’s famous 1965 memo, in which he wrote that “politically, it is always hard to cut losses. But the Johnson Administration is in a stronger position to do so than any Administration in this century. 1965 is the year of minimum political risk for the Johnson Administration. Indeed, it is the first year when we can face the Vietnam problem without being preoccupied with the political repercussions from the Republican right.” Cut to the next scene: Johnson kicks Humphrey out of his inner circle of advisers and only gives the hawks a seat at the table.
This Hollywood story of Lyndon Johnson’s failure is needed more urgently today than ever before. There is still a strong tendency to believe, against all odds, that the “political system” or the so-called “adults in the room” will somehow protect the United States from the worst instincts of a president when it comes to war and peace. Somehow, Americans say to themselves, democracy will survive dangerous presidential bluster, the emasculation of diplomacy, and constant militaristic threats.
That hope is misplaced. Ken Burns’s gripping PBS documentary on Vietnam shows how bad the situation can become. Schenkkan has written a sequel play to All the Way, entitled The Great Society, that puts more emphasis on the second half of LBJ’s administration. As Americans learned with Lyndon Johnson, a president with far more experience, gravitas, and political commitment than Donald Trump can lead the nation right into a devastating war.
Downplaying the ways in which Johnson was directly responsible for Vietnam risks underestimating the horrendous outcomes that can result from reckless presidential decisions.


During a news conference, President Trump said he and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell are “closer than ever before” and are working together to push the GOP agenda forward. Trump also said he’ll “be looking into” Representative Tom Marino, his drug czar nominee, after a report found the lawmaker helped pass a law hampering efforts to slow the opioid epidemic. U.S. Army Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl, who was held captive by the Taliban for five years, pleaded guilty to desertion. The Supreme Court agreed to hear a major case dealing with digital privacy and the Fourth Amendment. Astronomers detected the merging of two neutron stars for the first time.
Ethics Questions: Manhattan’s district attorney is under fire for donations he received during his campaigns, highlighting a key problem with America’s system of electing its prosecutors. (Matt Ford)
Older and Wiser?: Some young members of Congress are growing impatient with their older colleagues, many of whom are well past retirement age and determinted to stay in office. (Michelle Cottle)
The Power of #MeToo: On Sunday, actress Alyssa Milano encouraged women to tweet #MeToo if they have been sexually harassed or assaulted, and by Monday morning, the hashtag had been tweeted nearly half a million times. (Sophie Gilbert)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.


A Lot at Stake: Republicans in and outside the White House are reportedly afraid that if Democrats take control of the House in the midterms, they’ll double down on the Russia investigation—and file articles of impeachment against President Trump. (Sara Murray, CNN)
‘The Danger of President Pence’: Donald Trump’s critics have said that they’d prefer if Mike Pence became president, but a Pence presidency has its own set of risks. (Jane Mayer, The New Yorker)
Constitution Crash Course: In their responses to President Trump’s executive order ending Obamacare insurance subsidies and his attacks on the free press, both liberals and conservatives have proven that they need a refresher on the Constitution. (Jay Cost, National Review)
Victory for the Drug Industry: A Washington Post and “60 Minutes” report found that members of Congress and major drug distributors joined forces to usher forward a law that weakens efforts to limit the flow of opioids. (Scott Higham and Lenny Bernstein)
Extraterrestrial: Bettina Rodriguez Aguilera is a Miami Republican who says she’s been visited by aliens throughout her life. She’s also running for Congress in 2018. (Alex Daugherty and Patricia Mazzei, McClatchy)
What Is Hate Speech?: Take this quiz to see which statements violate Facebook’s rules on hate speech. It’s harder than you think. (Audrey Carlsen and Fahima Haque, The New York Times)
Senators Dianne Feinstein and Chuck Grassley are two of the oldest and longest-serving members of Congress, and both could be sticking around for the foreseeable future. The Atlantic’s Michelle Cottle reported on Monday that younger politicians are growing frustrated with what they view as out-of-touch lawmakers clinging to power by continuing to serve well into their 70s and 80s.
Do you think there should be an age limit for politicians? Why, or why not?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


On October 4, four American Special Forces soldiers were killed during an operation in Niger. Since then, the White House has been notably tight-lipped about the incident. During a press conference Monday afternoon, 12 days after the deaths, President Trump finally made his first public comments, but the remarks—in which he admitted he had not yet spoken with the families and briefly attacked Barack Obama—did little to clarify what happened or why the soldiers were in Niger.
Trump spoke at the White House after a meeting with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, and was asked why he hadn’t spoken about deaths of Sergeant La David Johnson and Staff Sergeants Bryan Black, Dustin Wright, and Jeremiah Johnson.
“I’ve written them personal letters,” Trump said. “They’ve been sent out or they’re going out tonight, but they were written during the weekend. I will at some point during the period of time call the parents, or the families. Because I have done that traditionally. I felt very, very badly about that. It’s the toughest call—the toughest calls I have to make are the calls where this happens. Soldiers are killed. It’s a very difficult thing. Now it gets to a point where you make four or five of them in one day, it’s very very tough. For me that’s the toughest.”
Those comments join Trump with many of his predecessors, who have also spoken publicly about the burden of sending troops into battle, and the wrenching process of speaking with the families of slain servicemembers. But then Trump went on to suggest that other presidents hadn’t done what he did.
“The traditional way, if you look at President Obama and other presidents, most of them didn’t make calls, a lot of them didn’t make calls,” he said. “I like to call when it’s appropriate, when I think I’m able to do it. They have made the ultimate sacrifice, so generally I would say that I like to call. I’m going to be calling them. I like a little bit of time to pass.”
NBC’s Peter Alexander challenged Trump on that claim a few minutes later in the press conference, and the president softened his claim, at least with regard to Obama.
“I don’t know if he did. I was told that he didn’t often. A lot of presidents don’t. They write letters. I do a combination of both. Sometimes it’s a very difficult thing to do,” he said.  “President Obama I think probably did sometimes and maybe sometimes he didn’t, I don’t know, that’s what I was told. Other presidents did not call, they’re write letters, and some presidents didn’t do either.”
This is classic Trump rhetoric. Any time he is challenged on any action, he promptly compares his own record to past presidents. He doesn’t require that the comparison be true. Having claimed that Obama didn’t call families of slain soldiers, Trump promptly backed down—he didn’t argue that Alexander was wrong, he just changed his claim.
There was immediate outcry, from aides to various former presidents. Ari Fleischer, press secretary to President George W. Bush, told HuffPost’s Amanda Terkel that Bush wrote letters to families and often met with them in person. Alyssa Mastromonaco, a former aide to Obama, tweeted that it’s “a fucking lie … to say President Obama (or past presidents) didn't call the family members of soldiers” killed in action. Tommy Vietor, a former Obama spokesman, wrote in an email that the 44th president “spent time with families of the fallen and wounded warriors throughout his presidency through letters, calls, visits to section 60 at Arlington and regular meetings with gold star families.”
It’s not hard to see where Trump might have gotten this idea. He has on multiple occasions repeated false information disseminated through bogus news outlets, including the claim that Obama was not born in the United States and did not have a birth certificate. In 2012, for example, the Trump-friendly blog The Gateway Pundit claimed that Obama used an autopen to sign letters to the families of slain soldiers, a claim the White House denied.
Whether Trump intended it this way or not, his strange, untrue, and apparently unpremeditated attack on past presidents was a diversion from the issue at hand: Why were the soldiers in Niger, and why hadn’t he spoken about it sooner? This is a pattern with Trump, in which he manages to say something so inflammatory, or so untrue, or both, that it obscures the central question.
Trump did, in a roundabout way, acknowledge the administration’s slowness to respond. When the body of the fourth slain soldier returned to Delaware’s Dover Air Force Base, Trump was golfing with Senator Lindsey Graham. On October 5, Press Secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters, “As many of you are aware, U.S. forces are in the country to provide training and security assistance to the local armed forces in their efforts to counter violent extremist organizations.” The following day, asked why Trump had not yet spoken, she said, “We’re continuing to review and look into this.”
Even as he attacked predecessors for their supposed inaction, Trump was acknowledging that nearly two weeks after the attack, he had still not contacted the families. “I actually wrote letters individually to the soldiers we’re talking about and they’re going to be going out today or tomorrow,” he said.
The broader question, of what the soldiers who were killed were doing and what went wrong, remains unaddressed by the president, and Trump’s jab at other presidents may, unfortunately, help to keep it that way. The Special Forces soldiers were deployed to Niger, as Sanders mentioned, in an advisory role. The government has been spare with details about what they were doing or why troops who were supposedly only working in an advisory and training role would have been out on a patrol where they were ambushed. CNN reported that the ambush occurred as they exited a meeting with local leaders. This is not the first time that U.S. service members have been killed in combat while supposedly not in combat roles. The Obama administration appeared to blur the lines between training and combat for such deployments, and the Niger case raises the possibility that the Trump administration is doing the same.
But U.S. Africa Command has formally said only that the four slain soldiers were working on a counter-terrorism mission, without more details. Trump, meanwhile, is happy to talk out of school about former presidents, but he remains tight-lipped about why the slain soldiers were in harm’s way.


The drab White House briefing room is no place for a wedding, so on Monday afternoon, President Trump and Mitch McConnell headed to the Rose Garden to renew their vows.
“My relationship with this gentleman is outstanding, has been outstanding,” the president said about the Senate majority leader whom he had spent the late summer attacking and who his former chief strategist is now trying to depose. “This man,” Trump said, pointing to McConnell, “is going to get it done.”
For 40 minutes, the two Republican men stood side by side outside the White House, sharing a microphone and a message—and even, once or twice, smiling at each other. Trump praised McConnell for delivering to him the unsung success of his presidency with the confirmation of a Supreme Court justice and several more young conservative jurists who likely will extend his legacy decades beyond the end of his term. McConnell returned the compliment in a way the president in particular would appreciate: by countering the rampant media reports about acrimony between them. “We’ve been friends and acquaintances for some time,” the Kentuckian asserted. “Contrary to what some of you may have reported, we are together totally on this agenda to move America forward.”
Mitch McConnell, Under Siege
Never in modern times has a president had to so publicly make amends with a congressional leader of his own party. But then again, rarely has a president gone so far out of his way to antagonize an ally who is so crucial to his own success.
“Mitch, get back to work,” Trump snapped at McConnell over Twitter in August, blaming him for the Senate’s repeated failure to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. When a reporter asked if McConnell should be replaced as the GOP leader, the president offered far less than a fulsome endorsement and encouraged the press to ask him again in a few months. The next month, Trump abandoned McConnell and House Speaker Paul Ryan to strike a fiscal deal with Democrats.
The Trump-McConnell marriage was always one of convenience, linking the blustery and impulsive businessman with the tight-lipped D.C. insider and political tactician.  So, too, is this rapprochement.
Having failed repeatedly to keep their promise to repeal Obamacare, Republicans are launching an equally arduous effort to rewrite the tax code in which party unity will be just as critical. The first major test comes this week, when the slim Senate GOP majority will try to pass a budget setting the parameters for the tax cuts and approving the use of the reconciliation process that will allow the party to circumvent a Democratic filibuster if and when the final bill comes to the floor. The House approved its version earlier this month, and if the Senate succeeds this week, the two chambers will have to reconcile the differences in a conference committee.
As with health care, McConnell will need at least 50 out of the 52 Republicans to vote for the budget, which would allow tax cuts to increase the deficit by $1.5 trillion over a decade. But just hours before his meeting with Trump, the majority leader learned that his margin would be even slimmer due to the absence of ailing Senator Thad Cochran of Mississippi. Cochran has been homebound with what his office says are urological problems, and though he was due back in the Capitol this week, his chief of staff announced Monday morning that his absence would continue indefinitely.
With Cochran out, McConnell can afford to lose no more than one Republican on the party-line budget vote. Senator Susan Collins of Maine, a frequent defector on health care, said Sunday she was likely to support the measure. But Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky could vote no, as he did on the Senate’s budget resolution in January. Trump played golf with Paul on Sunday, and afterward the Kentucky conservative had some kinder words for the tax plan he had previously criticized. “We think we’re in good shape for the budget. We hope,” Trump said, perhaps wishfully, as he stood next to McConnell on Monday.
Yet if the Trump-McConnell relationship is transactional, and McConnell’s job is to deliver votes for the president’s agenda, what does he get in return? Trump offered a possible hint in the Rose Garden, but not quite a commitment. Steve Bannon, the president’s former chief strategist, has declared an open war on McConnell’s leadership and on just about all of his members up for reelection next year. He’s currently meeting with and backing primary challengers who will vow to oppose McConnell as leader in 2019.
“I can understand fully how Steve Bannon feels,” Trump said earlier Monday before a Cabinet meeting. But after his lunch with McConnell, the president’s tune changed a bit. He said most GOP senators were onboard with his agenda and he suggested he might try to persuade Bannon to stand down in some races. “Steve is doing what Steve thinks is the right thing,” Trump said. “Some of the people he may be looking at, I’m going to see if I can talk him out of that.” Then, in a fit of overstatement, the president added: “Just so you understand, the Republican Party is very, very unified.”
Though he is a cautious public speaker, McConnell is openly disdainful of primary challenges to incumbent Republicans. Taking the microphone on Monday, he reminded reporters—and perhaps the president—that in his view, the party lost its shot at a Senate majority in 2010 and 2012 because Tea Party activists had succeeded in nominating Republicans who proved to be unelectable in November. That changed in 2014, when McConnell and the GOP establishment took a much stronger hand in contested primaries. “The goal here is to win elections in November,” McConnell said. “Winners make policy, and losers go home.”
If Trump disagreed with the majority leader, he kept uncharacteristically quiet. But the makings of an arrangement for this second, loveless marriage had become clear. Trump gets his tax cuts, and maybe another shot at repealing Obamacare. McConnell gets some job security—first for his campaigning incumbents next year, and then for himself.


The U.S. Supreme Court will decide whether American courts can issue warrants for data stored overseas under current federal law, adding another major case on digital privacy and the Fourth Amendment to its docket this term.
The justices agreed to hear U.S. v. Microsoft on Monday at the request of the federal government. A three-judge panel of federal appellate judges sided with Microsoft last year to quash a warrant issued for emails stored on the tech giant’s servers in Ireland. At stake is whether federal prosecutors can compel Silicon Valley to hand over data from anywhere in the world under existing law, or whether that immense power is bounded by the borders of the United States.
Roaming Charges
Monday’s addition joins a series of major criminal-justice cases on the justices’ plate this term. Foremost among them is Carpenter v. United States, in which the high court will ponder whether the government needs a warrant to obtain the location history of a suspect’s cellphone. Because the existing precedents are four decades old, whatever decision the justices reach will likely be a landmark ruling on the Fourth Amendment’s application to modern technology.
At issue in Microsoft is another ubiquity of the digital age: email. Federal prosecutors asked a federal magistrate judge to issue a warrant allowing them to search a Microsoft-provided email account. The prosecutors said they believed it was being used by an unidentified suspect “to conduct criminal drug activity,” according to court filings. The judge granted their request under Section 2703, a provision of the Stored Communications Act of 1986 that governs warrant applications for electronic records.
Microsoft complied with part of the request by providing some records on the account stored within its U.S.-based systems. At the same time, the company declined to hand over any data stored on servers at a data center in Dublin, which included the contents of the email account itself. Though Microsoft can access the account from the United States, that data—the zeroes and ones electromagnetically inscribed on a computer server—is physically located in the Irish capital. Microsoft’s lawyers argued this placed it beyond Section 2703’s intended reach.
The magistrate judge rejected Microsoft’s efforts to nix the warrant, as did a federal district court on appeal. The case then moved to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals, where a three-judge panel sided with the tech giant. In her majority opinion, Judge Susan Carney concluded that Congress did not intend for Section 2703 to apply overseas when it drafted the Stored Communications Act in the mid-1980s.
“In keeping with the pressing needs of the day, Congress focused on providing basic safeguards for the privacy of domestic users,” she wrote. “Accordingly, we think it employed the term ‘warrant’ in the act to require pre-disclosure scrutiny of the requested search and seizure by a neutral third party, and thereby to afford heightened privacy protection in the United States.” Accordingly, Carney ruled, Congress did not explicitly allow the provision to apply overseas.
Microsoft has used the case to urge Congress to revise the Stored Communications Act, which predates the internet revolution by a decade but still governs how prosecutors interact with it. Mass adoption of email didn’t go far beyond academic and military networks until the mid-1990s. Even then, only about one-third of Americans owned a personal computer in 1995; that number grew to 84 percent by 2014, according to the Pew Research Center.
“The continued reliance on a law passed in 1986 will neither keep people safe nor protect people’s rights,” Brad Smith, the company’s chief lawyer, wrote on Monday. He also raised privacy concerns about the government’s interpretation of Section 2703. “If U.S. law enforcement can obtain the emails of foreigners stored outside the United States, what’s to stop the government of another country from getting your emails even though they are located in the United States?” Smith asked.
For the government, the case is a frustrating dispute in which an American company based on U.S. soil won’t hand over potential criminal evidence to which it has unrestricted access. The Justice Department told the Supreme Court that the Second Circuit’s ruling “is causing immediate, grave, and ongoing harm to public safety, national security, and the enforcement of our laws” in its petition filed earlier this year.
“Under this opinion, hundreds if not thousands of investigations of crimes—ranging from terrorism, to child pornography, to fraud—are being or will be hampered by the government’s inability to obtain electronic evidence,” the government claimed. Thirty-three states also filed a brief with the court urging the justices to review the case. Tech companies have begun using the Second Circuit’s ruling to resist warrants from their law-enforcement agencies as well, the states said.
The Court has yet to set oral arguments for the case, which will likely occur sometime next spring. A final decision will be issued after then and before the justices’ annual June recess.


As the ranks of college administrators have swelled in higher education, one task they’ve undertaken is more aggressively training students—and at times, faculty members— in what is variously called “cultural competence” or “diversity and inclusion.”
The aims of these efforts are laudable.
College ought to be as welcoming to students from historically marginalized groups as it is to anyone else; and it ought to prepare all students for civic life in a hugely diverse society.
But when training faculty members or educating students so that they are “culturally competent,” a process that should involve telling them pertinent facts, is instead used as a pretext to indoctrinate them into a contested ideology, the laudable becomes objectionable.
A sound approach to teaching “cultural competence” might inform by exploring the history of blackface; or why Sikhs carry a small knife; or common challenges that orthodox Christian students experience on secular campuses; or the historical experience of a Native tribe with many members enrolled; or differences in classroom culture that Chinese exchange students might exhibit; or the hijab’s meaning. Such particulars would best be shaped by the composition of the student body at a given institution.
But a flawed approach leaves students less culturally competent than when they began. Consider a widely circulated educational sheet, derived from an academic text, that seems to have originated in the UC system before being circulated at UC Santa Cruz, the University of Minnesota, the University of Wisconsin, the court system of Philadelphia, and beyond. It lists what it calls examples of “racial microaggressions” that “communicate hostile, derogatory, or negative messages to target persons.”
The following statements are included:
The UCLA professor Eugene Volokh once criticized this microaggressions sheet for going beyond “evenhandedly trying to prevent insult” to actively stigmatizing contested viewpoints, an inappropriate measure for administrators at a public university. I shared that objection at the time, but recently came upon another as powerful.
The Cato/YouGov survey on free speech and tolerance that I reported on last week included questions about whether folks find the same sentiments expressed above offensive.
Among the results?
Telling a recent immigrant, “you speak good English” was deemed “not offensive” by 77 percent of Latinos; saying “I don’t notice people’s race” was deemed “not offensive” by 71 percent of African Americans and 80 percent of Latinos; saying “America is a melting pot” was deemed not offensive by 77 percent of African Americans and 70 percent of Latinos; saying “America is the land of opportunity” was deemed “not offensive” by 93 percent of African Americans and 89 percent of Latinos; and saying “everyone can succeed in this society if they work hard enough” was deemed “not offensive” by 89 percent of Latinos and 77 percent of African Americans.
Public-opinion data cannot tell us whether a given statement is wrongheaded; and if campus progressives want to marshal substantive reasons for why any of the above statements should be eschewed, they ought to be free to articulate those arguments, and should receive a fair hearing by people who engage them on the merits. At times, I’m sure I’d agree with their analysis rather than the culture at large. I’m persuaded, for example, that “unauthorized immigrant” is the best locution.
But the literature was not circulated as the perspective of campus progressives on what should not be said; it was circulated as if it represented what offends and demeans people of color, even though huge majorities of African Americans and Latinos say, when actually consulted, that those very same statements are “not offensive.” (I have not yet found comparable survey data on the opinions of Asian Americans.)
The effect was to misinform any young people who accepted its assertions in two ways: they would have left college falsely confident that they understand what others find offensive and demeaning; and falsely perceiving folks who use the aforementioned phrases as offending others—willfully or through discreditable ignorance of widely held norms—even as those alleged “micro-aggressors,” who perhaps belong to a socioeconomic class less likely to attend college, saw themselves as being affirmatively friendly and inoffensive, and turn out to have a better grasp on what others think.
It’s easy to understand why administrators are tempted to simply tell people how to be culturally competent, rather than ensuring that pertinent facts are taught and urging individuals to apply reason to them; if I were on a college campus where a clueless white undergraduate from a deeply out-of-touch family non-hatefully donned blackface, my first impulse would be to say, “That’s hugely offensive, don’t ever wear it again!” rather than undertaking the more demanding task of educating the individual in question.
The censure might even have the same effect.
But even if almost everyone is on the same page when it comes to blackface, Holocaust denial, or racial slurs, it appears some powerful college administrators are incompetent at formulating a broader picture of what it is to be culturally competent, and are sometimes the ones who’d most benefit from remedial education.


There’s a juicy family squabble brewing among California’s congressional Democrats. It seems Representative Ro Khanna, freshman standard-bearer for Silicon Valley, was less than thrilled when the state’s senior senator, Dianne Feinstein, announced Monday that she would seek another term in office next year.
Quick as a flash, Khanna started talking smack about DiFi via traditional and social media disses, saying the veteran senator is “out of touch with the grassroots” and urging voters to “jettison her” even as she tries to “cling to office as the voice of the status quo.” A vice-chairman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, Khanna went so far as to publicly urge Representative Barbara Lee and former Labor Secretary Robert Reich to launch primary challenges to Feinstein from the left. Voters are frustrated, he charged in an op-ed in the Sacramento Bee, “that the turnover rate in Congress is lower than contemporary European monarchies.”
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
Wow. That’s got to sting coming from a member not just of Feinstein’s own party but also of her own delegation—and a bottom-of-the-food-chain House freshman at that. Whatever happened to respecting one’s party elders—or at the very least not gut-punching them in public?
But here’s the thing: Khanna is kinda right. Not so much about Feinstein’s politics (though the party still has miles to go with its ideological soul-searching) as about her basic desire to “cling to office.”
Feinstein is a highly respected public servant who has been a force in the Senate for more than a quarter century. But—how to put this delicately?—the gentlewoman from California is 84 years old. At the end of another full term, she would be 91. Even accepting the boomeresque blather that 60 is the new 40, one’s late 80s/early 90s are still plenty old. And while Feinstein no doubt still has much to offer, there’s a solid argument to be made that it’s time for her to let the party’s up-and-comers take center stage.
Now, before everyone starts firing off How-dare-you-pick-on-DiFi! tweets, let me clarify: The issue here is not Feinstein per se. Indeed, if she were a Senate outlier, her age would be far less concerning. Every organization needs seasoned veterans. But far from being unusual, Feinstein is simply the marginally oldest member of a body arguably best described as a gerontocracy.
Consider this: More than one-quarter of current Senators are 70 or older. Almost half are 65 or over. Seven are over 80. Since Tom Cotton’s last birthday, no one is under 40. (The minimum age for election to the Senate is 30.)
Many of you must be thinking: Isn’t this kind of talk grotesquely ageist? Who’s  to say that Feinstein—or Chuck Grassley, who’s only a couple of months her junior—aren’t as formidable at 80-plus as they were at 60-plus? Even assuming a bit of slippage, don’t wisdom and expertise make up for declines in physical or mental vigor? Haven’t medical advancements and better health habits rendered age more-or-less a false construct?  
Helpfully, public-health guru Harold Pollack recently tackled many of these questions for Vox.  While stressing that “blanket judgments about older politicians are of course indefensible,” he lamented that Americans’ sensitivity about aging prevents us from having “frank” talks about some of its “elemental realities” and “unavoidable statistical consequences.” From there, he oh-so-delicately pointed to the risks of everything from “disruptive medical tragedies” (like John McCain’s cancer or Thad Cochran’s failing health) to dementia and death which rise ever-more sharply as people cruise through their 60s and 70s on into their 80s.
Looking at just a couple of Pollack’s stats: An American woman Feinstein’s age has less than a 50 percent chance of living another six years (that is, the length of a Senate term). Granted, Feinstein is hardly your average American woman, but physical decline comes for us all—as does mental slowing. As Pollack also pointed out: “Over age 70, almost one-fifth of American adults experience some mild cognitive impairment,” while the annual risks of “real dementia” among otherwise healthy folks “roughly double every five years after age 70.” By 85? Nearly one-third suffer from it in some form.
The most obvious counter to such concerns is that voters get the chance every six years to boot their senator if they suspect he or she is slipping. In theory, yes. In practice, the advantages of incumbency are so overwhelming that it takes something pretty dramatic to dislodge a sitting member (God only knows how many years Strom Thurmond’s staffers actually ran his office). Not to mention, six years can be a mighty long time.
What’s more, it’s not as though voters typically elect first-time senators on the basis of their decades-earned wisdom. Feinstein was initially elected at age 59, Grassley at 47, Orrin Hatch (the body’s third-oldest member) at 42, and so on. The second-oldest Democrat, 77-year-old Patrick Leahy, joined the club at the dewy age of 34. And only one of the seven senators elected last year was over 60: John Kennedy, 65, of Louisiana. But once these folks get that Senate membership, they tend to dig in and stay—and stay and stay and stay.
Again, this is not to single out Feinstein—or Democrats. In fact, after DiFi, the next seven oldest Senators are all Republicans: Grassley, Hatch, Richard Shelby, Jim Inhofe, Pat Roberts, John McCain, and Thad Cochran. The combined age of these seven men is 573 years.
But while Republicans may be in an equally advanced chronological state, Democrats are in a trickier political position. The party desperately needs fresh blood in both chambers of Congress, not to mention the presidential field. (When 76-year-old Bernie Sanders is the voice of a new generation, it’s time to do some soul-searching.) This has become a topic of heated and perpetual (if generally sotto voce) debate among party aides, strategists, and members alike.
“The floors of the Capitol should creak, not the members of Congress,” quipped a veteran Democratic consultant. “Seriously, we are in need of not just younger, fresh leadership but fresh and cohesive ideas,” she said. “How in God’s name are we supposed to convince Millennials we care about student-loan debt when we look like their grandparents?”
In the meantime, the party’s rising stars are being held back, fretted another strategist. “We have so much talent that we are just leaving to die on the vine, which is not only a tragedy for the party but a major deterrent for hungry, smart new members to have a real impact on our platform moving forward.”
Now and then, the tension erupts in public. Earlier this month, California Representative Linda Sanchez dropped jaws when she vented to reporters that it was time for the entire House Democratic leadership team—most definitely including fellow Californian, Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi—to move on: “I think there comes a time to pass that torch. And I think it’s time.”
In Feinstein’s case, the political calculus for making way for new talent comes with way less risk than it would in a swingier state. California is deep blue, meaning that, even without Feinstein’s incumbency edge, Democrats would almost certainly hold the seat—as when long-time Senator Barbara Boxer retired last year (at the tender age of 76) and was succeeded by the state’s then-Attorney General Kamala Harris.
It’s not as though the party lacks young talent in the state, said a former top House Democratic aide, pointing specifically to Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom and Harris’s successor as attorney general, Xavier Becerra. “Look at what Kamala Harris has done since she has come in!” he gushed. “But some of the older folks like it and want to stay there.”
And if lawmakers want to stay forever, there’s not a heck of a lot you can do about it, all agree. Term limits are a fun idea to toy with, but since it would be up to Congress to set those limits, no one thinks they are going to happen. Ever. As the former House aide mused, “We were joking the other day: Can’t we have there be an age limit of 80? That would be reasonable.”
And so it falls to individual senators to use their own judgment to decide when they are no longer up to the job. Small wonder that some of their younger colleagues feel increasingly moved to give them the occasional shove.


Cyrus Vance Jr., Manhattan’s district attorney, is facing intense public scrutiny for a series of prosecutorial decisions in cases involving the Trump family and Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein. Multiple stories have emerged about how lawyers connected to those figures have donated to Vance’s campaigns, along with the implicit suggestion that those funds may have played a role in his deliberating.
Such is the paradox of America’s unusual habit of electing its prosecutors. Proponents of the tradition defend it as a check to ensure the most powerful players in the criminal-justice system are accountable to the people they represent. But as Vance’s situation underscores, forcing prosecutors to campaign for votes and glad-hand for dollars can also undermine the faith in the system that elections are meant to restore.
His situation isn’t unique. The Manhattan DA’s office is one of more than 2,000 prosecutor offices nationwide, according to the federal Bureau of Justice Statistics.
Voters in 45 states directly elect the top prosecutors for those offices, whether they are state's attorneys, district attorneys, or county attorneys. State attorneys general in Alaska, Delaware, and Rhode Island appoint prosecutors in their respective states. Local prosecutors in Connecticut are appointed by a commission, while New Jersey's governor appoints both the state attorney general and the county prosecutors.* Virtually no other country elects its prosecutors like the United States does.
Manhattan voters first elevated Vance in 2009. He replaced the retiring Robert Morgenthau, who had ruled the DA’s office since 1975. The post is a highly visible one, thanks to the city’s global reach, the high concentration of media outlets, and the presence of major financial and cultural institutions. New York’s status as a Democratic stronghold also means the party’s primary is often the de facto election in DA contests. (Morgenthau, for example, was a Democrat who often ran as the joint candidate for the Democratic and Republican parties.)
While Vance has occasionally drawn national attention, his profile grew significantly over the last fortnight. Recent news reports drew connections between donations made to his campaigns and two major cases he oversaw in 2012 and 2015. In both instances, he declined to bring charges.
Last week, ProPublica and The New Yorker reported that Vance’s office came close to filing felony fraud charges in 2012 against Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump Jr.; afterward, their father’s longtime legal fixer donated money to Vance’s reelection coffers. Similarly, contributions from one of Weinstein’s lawyers were scrutinized after the International Business Times reported on them this week. Weinstein, now facing allegations that he sexually harassed and assaulted more than two dozen women, was the focus of a DA investigation in 2015.
Taken together, the public implication was that Vance let both cases go because he’d been given money. He strongly denied those allegations throughout the week, saying the donations had “no impact on his thinking.” He also hinted that he might change his personal policy on accepting money from attorneys he may someday battle in court. But by having to raise money in the first place, prosecutors like Vance will always be vulnerable to such suspicions, whether or not they are based in reality.
One former opponent of Vance isn’t as quick to draw conclusions—in part because she, like the rest of the public, has incomplete information about each case. Leslie Crocker Snyder, a former judge who had also served in the Morgenthau-era DA’s office, ran against him in 2009. “Even though Cy and I were adversaries in running for DA, I happen to have a high opinion of him,” Snyder told me, calling him a “person of integrity.”
When she worked as an assistant DA for Morgenthau, Snyder founded the first sex-crimes division in the United States. Although she refrained from invoking specific cases, Snyder underscored the balancing act prosecutors face when deciding whether to bring sex-crime allegations before a judge and jury.
“It’s very difficult for other people to make judgments about cases involving sex crimes because you have to be in a position to know all the facts,” Snyder told me. “And while I tend to generally be highly supportive of victims, I know that a lot goes into making judgments about sex-crimes cases and whether they’re prosecutable.” She added that she had “no opinion” about the two Vance decisions now under scrutiny because she doesn’t have all the facts.
What’s publicly known about those decisions comes largely from recent media reports. Last week’s joint story from ProPublica and The New Yorker described how Vance’s office investigated Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump Jr. for allegedly making intentionally false claims to prospective investors in Trump SoHo, one of their real-estate projects in the city. Among the evidence prosecutors had against them, according to the report, was an email chain in which Donald Jr. said nobody would find out about what they’d done because nobody would see the emails.
The chain of events from there becomes thorny. First, Marc Kasowitz, President Trump’s longtime legal fixer, donated $25,000 to Vance’s reelection campaign sometime in early 2012. He then met with Vance and his legal team in May 2012 to discuss the case. Three months later, Vance dropped it, and “less than six months” after that, Kasowitz donated another $50,000, the publications reported. Responding to this timeline, Vance said he returned the initial donation before meeting with Kasowitz, and said he would give back the second one. He also strongly denied that the contributions had any influence on the investigation’s outcome.
On Tuesday, Vance’s record resurfaced again after The New Yorker published a lengthy feature story on Weinstein detailing the assault and harassment allegations. (Through a representative, Weinstein told the magazine that he denied “any allegations of non-consensual sex” and that he thought any encounters were consensual.)
One of his accusers, Ambra Battilana Gutierrez, told the magazine she reported Weinstein to the New York City Police Department in March 2015 shortly after he groped her. When Weinstein asked to meet her the next night, investigators with the department’s Special Victims Division asked Gutierrez to wear a wire to record their conversation, audio The New Yorker later obtained. On it, Weinstein can be heard unsuccessfully cajoling her into joining him in his hotel room; he also seems to confirm that he had previously groped her. NYPD officers took the recording and their investigation to Vance’s office, and he declined to prosecute Weinstein two weeks later.
That decision has received negative reviews from other law-enforcement officials in the city. The magazine quoted anonymous NYPD officers who expressed their frustration with it. And Slate also interviewed two former prosecutors who said the tape was likely enough to bring charges. Vance’s office, for its part, denounced Weinstein’s alleged conduct and defended its actions in the two-year-old inquiry.
“If we could have prosecuted Harvey Weinstein for the conduct that occurred in 2015, we would have,” Karen Friedman Agnifilo, Manhattan’s chief assistant district attorney, said in a statement. She then took the rare step of explaining why the DA declined to prosecute him at the time:
After the complaint was made in 2015, the NYPD—without our knowledge or input—arranged a controlled call and meeting between the complainant and Mr. Weinstein. The seasoned prosecutors in our Sex Crimes Unit were not afforded the opportunity before the meeting to counsel investigators on what was necessary to capture in order to prove a misdemeanor sex crime. While the recording is horrifying to listen to, what emerged from the audio was insufficient to prove a crime under New York law, which requires prosecutors to establish criminal intent. Subsequent investigative steps undertaken in order to establish intent were not successful. This, coupled with other proof issues, meant that there was no choice but to conclude the investigation without criminal charges.
It’s unusual for a prosecutor to discuss a case like this when no charges were filed, since doing so could risk tainting someone who could not defend themselves in court. Without more information, the public’s knowledge gap can be filled by suggestions of other motivations—as in Vance’s case. Soon after the Weinstein news broke, the International Business Times reported that David Boies, a high-profile Democratic litigator who once argued Bush v. Gore before the Supreme Court and occasionally represents Weinstein, donated $10,000 “in the months after” Vance chose not to file charges against the Hollywood producer.
Upon further examination, the contribution itself is hardly damning. Boies’s firm said he wasn’t representing Weinstein in the Gutierrez case and had never spoken to Vance before about him. He’d also previously fundraised for and donated to Vance’s campaign, reducing the likelihood of a direct connection between this specific case and the check. Yet multiple news outlets still noted the contribution—laden with connotations—in subsequent coverage of the story.
Were Vance not an elected official, his decisions to not prosecute the Trump children and Weinstein would still receive public scrutiny and attention—as the justice system should, and as cases involving celebrities in particular often do. But the fact of the Vance campaign changes the nature of the scrutiny. It’s inevitable that some will question prosecutors’ judgment from time to time; campaign fundraising invites additional questions about their ethics. That, in turn, undermines public faith in the legal system and the rule of law.
In Citizens United v. FEC, the landmark 2010 Supreme Court case that struck down some limits on independent spending during political campaigns, Justice Anthony Kennedy downplayed fears about the role of money in political decision-making. “The appearance of influence or access, furthermore, will not cause the electorate to lose faith in our democracy,” he wrote at the time. The practical realities of American politics suggest otherwise.
* This article originally stated that Connecticut's attorney general appoints prosecutors in that state, and that prosecutors in Rhode Island are elected. We regret the error.


Alan Jacobs is something of an internet enigma. The Baylor University professor describes himself as a conservative Christian with some “very liberal” political views. In his prolific blogging, he often takes surprising and counterintuitive positions; his recent feature for Harper’s Magazine on the decline of Christian intellectuals won praise and criticism from unusual bands of allies. Maybe it’s inevitable that today’s hyper-partisanship and lightening-fast news cycles have left the open-minded Jacobs frustrated with America’s low tolerance for disagreement—a political order characterized by “willful incomprehension [and] toxic suspicion,” as he calls it.
The Disappearance of Virtue From American Politics
Jacobs’s new book, How to Think, backs into this description of American politics, claiming to offer a rejoinder to scholars like Daniel Kahneman and Jonathan Haidt who focus too much on the “science of thinking and not enough about the art.” Perhaps Jacobs’s work should have been framed as a eulogy for pluralism in the age of Twitter: how people’s snap judgments, generalizations, and feelings of repulsion toward certain ideas create a lot of noise and little understanding of people unlike themselves. This may not be the most uncivil political era of all time, Jacobs argues, but there’s something about it that is distinctively terrible.
How to Think is part essay, part lament, part how-to guide for processing the world more generously. My conversation with Jacobs has been edited for clarity and length.
Emma Green: Your book isn’t really about how to think. It’s about how to deal with the challenges of pluralism. Right?
Alan Jacobs: Well, I don’t think those are necessarily exclusive. In a pluralistic society, people struggle to deal with difference. One of the ways in which we typically deal with difference is by drawing really clear lines of belonging and not-belonging. To be able to signal “who is with me” and “who is not with me”—in-groups and out-groups—is extremely significant for human beings.
My view is that is the number-one impediment to thinking.
Green: You bring up conflicts across groups that have lasted for centuries. For example: Thomas More, the Roman Catholic humanist, wrote to Martin Luther, the leader of the Protestant Reformation, about his “shitty mouth, truly the shit-pool of all shit, all the muck and shit which your damnable rottenness has vomited up.” For his part, Luther referred to the “‘dear little ass-pope’ who licks the Devil’s anus.”
Even so, one could make an argument that discourse in our time is even more toxic. Is it?
“Holy cow, are people internally messed up.”
Jacobs: I’m sure there are times where it has been as bad or worse. But I do think that we’re in this really weird place where the media through which we engage one another keep us in a permanent state of agitation and hostility.
The external consequences have not been overwhelmingly tragic yet—we’re not slaughtering one another in the streets. But, holy cow, are people internally messed up. People are going through day after day in a state of profound agitation, having to mark their place on the ideological landscape through social media.
Green: This seems connected to the death of objective fact in America. Ideologically speaking, people are often stuck in their own “truths”—they’re like circles in Venn diagrams that don’t necessarily overlap. Your proposal of generous listening and consideration is almost impossible to imagine.
Jacobs: You’re right that it is hard to envision. What I’m trying to do is slow people down. One of the most important passages in the book is where the software developer Jason Fried is wanting to argue with a guy who is giving a talk, and the guy says, “Just give it five minutes.” If we could just give it five minutes—even five minutes—we might be able to cool down enough to say, “Maybe this is different than what I first thought,” or “Maybe there’s a point here. Maybe this isn’t completely insane.”
“I worry about the consequences of wrath more than ... contemptuous smugness.”
Green: Is the right or the left more to blame for this fracture?
Jacobs: They’re bad in different ways. There’s a smugness on both sides. But I am more worried about the condition of the right in America right now.
I think the primary moral fault of the left is a kind of smug contemptuousness toward people who don’t agree. And I think that’s a bad fault. But the primary fault of the right at this moment in America is wrath. I worry about the consequences of wrath more than I worry about the consequences of contemptuous smugness.
Green: Some people look at our fractured media environment—where groups don’t even share facts to argue over—and see nefarious forces at work, like the Russians manipulating Facebook or consistent left-wing media bias.
You argue something different: that individual behavior makes it impossible to have a conversation across ideological divides. How do you reconcile your view with these kinds of structural analyses of the vast forces that pull America apart?
Jacobs: Conspiracy theories tend to arise when you can’t think of any rational explanation for people believing or acting in a certain way. The more absurd you think your political or moral or spiritual opponents’ views are, the more likely you are to look for some explanation other than the simplest one, which is that they believe it’s true.
One category that’s gone away in America is “wrong.” Nobody is just “wrong.” They’re wicked, they’re evil, they’re malicious, they’re the victims of these vast subterranean forces.
But sometimes we get things wrong, because politics is hard. Knowing the right policy in any case is difficult, because you’re having to predict the future and the variables are astronomically complex. But we want to believe that it’s obvious what to do to fix our social problems.
“When a position is really widely held, it’s not really a safe option to deem it out of bounds.”
Green: So what’s the boundary? How do you decide which ideas, people, and ideologies should be considered morally unacceptable?
Jacobs: I’m probably going to regret this later on, but I’ll give you an example from the Christian world. A group of conservative evangelicals recently posted this Nashville statement about sexuality and transgenderism, as they call it. That was like a line in the sand. The idea is that now it’s time for you to decide: Are you with us, or are you against us?
Almost at the same time, I read something by a young lesbian woman who had recently been married, who was essentially saying to her friends, “If you attend churches where gay and lesbian Christians are not completely welcomed and affirmed, you’re not really an ally. So you need to decide: Are you on our side, or not on our side?”
I’m looking at that and thinking, “So, where is the space where Christians who find this complicated or difficult can talk?”
When people are drawing lines, saying, “I have settled this issue, and I want to be with other people who have settled this issue,” I think there can be really, really bad consequences. That’s saying, “I’m not interested in having that conversation anymore.” Sometimes, being a grown-up is realizing that there are issues you’d rather not talk about that you’re going to have to talk about.
Green: Do you think people are obligated to engage with an opposing viewpoint if enough people hold that view?
Jacobs: I do think that’s true. When a position is really widely held, it’s not really a safe option to deem it out of bounds. Practically speaking, refusing to deal with it can be a way of yielding the floor to people whose views you find repulsive.
“A plea for civility can be a way of consolidating power.”
Green: You seem to be yearning for something I hear a lot these days—a kind of return of civility, where politics is brokered through polite discourse and carried on the strength of ideas. Why is that calling to you? Don’t you think that’s basically impossible in the environment you’ve been describing?
Jacobs: It’s hard to be super hopeful about it.
There was a passage that turns up in The Lord of the Rings, and also in [J.R.R.] Tolkien’s letters, where he refers to history as the long defeat. That’s a good reminder—I want to be generous, and I want to be civil, and I want to be kind. I want to listen to people who are very different from me. I want to keep doing that, even if I don’t make things better.
I also want to be aware of the ways in which a plea for civility can be a way of consolidating power. It’s pretty easy to be me in America. I grew up in pretty poor circumstances, and in a mess of a family. My background looks like the background of a lot of African American men, but I’m not African American. Once I learned how to talk a little better—once I didn’t sound like so much of a redneck—and dressed up a little bit, it was easy for me to overcome that. There really is a tremendous benefit to being white when you’re trying to rise in the social order.
I want to remember that and not chastise people for being uncivil when they have what Martin Luther King Jr. called “legitimate and unavoidable impatience.” I do want to promote civility, but I want to promote it more by example than by lecturing people on how they can be more civil.


In the days following the Las Vegas shooting—as its horror has faded from news coverage behind revelations of wildfires and sexual assault and humanitarian disasters—two ideological scripts have emerged. Many conservatives have argued that the shooting is a sign of inherent evil in the world: President Trump, for example, described it as “an act of pure evil.” And a number of Republican politicians pushed back on the immediate calls for gun control, arguing that “you can’t regulate evil.”
Trump's New Term for Terrorists: 'Evil Losers'
Progressives, on the other hand, have blamed the violence on the government’s failure to regulate weapons. These different approaches seem to be more than a rhetorical sleight of hand or a way of escaping a tough policy conversation, and they extend beyond Las Vegas. Both groups have a specific framework for thinking about the role of chaos in politics, and the ability—or limits—of government to prevent bad things from happening. On both sides, there has been intense anger. And on both sides, there has been a grasping for moral language, for tools to fully explain and solve shocking violence.
In 2011, the Boston College political scientist Alan Wolfe wrote Political Evil, a book about the right way to morally conceptualize horrific acts. He wrote about conflicts in the Middle East, mass murder in Darfur, and debates over the term “genocide.” The way we think about evil, he argues, fundamentally shapes how we think about action. Wolfe is a self-described liberal, so he brings a specific point of view to the project. Still, I found our conversation about the language of evil in politics, which has been edited and condensed below, to be helpful in understanding the rhetoric used after tragedy.
Emma Green: You may have seen the comments a number of Republican legislators made in response to Las Vegas, arguing that “you can’t regulate evil.” What do you make of this?
Alan Wolfe: The Las Vegas killing, compared to the other things we’re seeing like hurricanes and forest fires, gets back to the most fundamental philosophical question about evil: whether there’s a natural or a human cause.
The others, clearly, are natural. You can’t really regulate them. You can’t stop the natural events that cause them. But with the Las Vegas killing, some kind of public policy could conceivably have had an effect there, because this was a human being picking up a weapon and shooting. So they’re different. I do sense that the defenders of gun ownership conflate them. They talk about the evil in Las Vegas as if it’s just another natural evil, that a crazy man just happened to buy a gun and happened to shoot these people.
Green: Are certain crimes so egregious that they pass a threshold of inexplicable, unimaginable, unpreventable evil?
Wolfe: Guns give people a feeling of power. I’m not here to psychoanalyze this guy, but that certainly seems to be the case in a lot of mass shootings. People say that these shooters are abnormal or sick or something, but I would hazard a generalization that their overwhelming feeling is powerlessness.
Now, by shooting people, they’ve taken command of that and called attention to themselves on the world stage. They die, but they die knowing that they’ll be in the newspaper the next day.
“My perception is that in the last 20 to 25 years, we’ve undergone a radical change in how we talk about evil.”
Green: To what extent is it the government’s job to “regulate evil”?
Wolfe: [Republican legislators who argue against regulating evil] don’t want a role for government in general, and so it fits naturally into their anti-government ideology not to try to regulate guns.
But the interesting question, for me, is if they’re so afraid of regulation, it conveys a hidden message that regulation actually works. Why would they fear it? They must, at some level, understand that regulation must work.
I don’t sense that right-wing politicians are afraid of regulation in all areas of life. Someone like Vice President Mike Pence is actually quite a regulator when it comes to things he considers sinful, like pornography. There’s a kind of selective regulation going on here.
Green: Do you think people with different ideological convictions might conceptualize evil differently? If so, how?
Wolfe: My perception is that in the last 20 to 25 years, we’ve undergone a radical change in how we talk about evil. I remember when former United Nations Ambassador Samantha Power wrote her book about genocide and ethnic cleansing. One of the arguments in her book is that we are reluctant to use the word “evil.” She went through examples of politicians that would avoid the term as much as possible and find all kinds of synonyms for it.
Now, I would say we overuse the term “evil” in our public life. Trump, in particular, has used the term “evil” so much that he’s inflated all the meaning out of it. Once, we were reluctant to name it. Now, we’re naming it all the time. Either way, it is problematic. From where I sit, it’s much worse to overuse the term “evil” in places where it doesn’t belong. If you do that, you get into believing that anyone who disagrees with you might be evil, or that other countries are somehow bent on committing evil.
“It cheapens ‘evil’ to use it frivolously.”
Green: Do you think there’s a religious influence on the popularization of this term in public discourse?
Wolfe: It is a very religious term, but it’s not, in fact, a Christian term, which is one of the oddities of so many people who are self-professed Christians using the term.
St. Augustine, the great Christian theologian, fought battles with other religious figures in his time, like the Manicheans, who stressed evil so much that nothing was left to the proposition that God is good. The idea that God is good is a fundamental proposition of Christian theology.
There’s apparently a reluctance on the part of Christians to use the word “sin” in the public square—they’re much more likely to use the word “evil.” Using the word “sin” might remind Christians that this is something that can be overcome with God’s help, and there’s grace even for the biggest sinners if they find Jesus in their hearts. You can’t be irredeemably evil from a Christian theological perspective, because then there would be no salvation, and no role for Jesus. “Evil” is much more of a secular word than a religious word. “Sin” would be the religious word.
Green: So how do you think the word “evil” has entered the president’s vocabulary so prominently?
Wolfe: When I hear President Trump, I’m reminded of Dietrich Bonhoeffer, the Christian theologian and Hitler opponent who was killed by the Nazis. One of the terms he’s famous for—a wonderful term—is “cheap grace.” Grace is something that has to be won through hard work and serious commitment to Christian ideals, but in the modern world, it’s given much too freely.
I would think of President Trump’s language as “cheap evil,” in the same way. It cheapens “evil” to use it frivolously.
Green: Why do people on the left have a hard time speaking about evil?
Wolfe: The left grew suspicious of moral language and moral talk as the right wing used moral language to condemn them on rights over abortion, gay marriage, and so on. The cultural left said, “We’ll lose any fight that’s about these deeper moral questions. We will talk instead about a woman’s right to choose.” It lacks the kind of larger moral language that the right was comfortable using. In my little corner, I would do whatever I could to help the left and liberals think more seriously about overcoming this allergy to moral language.


During an address at the Values Voter Summit, President Trump boasted about “tremendous strides” against ISIS, pledged to end Obamacare, and said he hopes to have tax reform done by Christmas. Later, Trump announced that he is decertifying the Iran deal, leaving it to Congress to decide whether to amend existing U.S. legislation. Democratic and Republican lawmakers criticized Trump’s decision to kill key Obamacare subsidies. Maine Senator Susan Collins announced that she will not run for governor. At least 32 people have been killed in the wildfires blazing through Northern California.
Passing the Buck: President Trump’s choice to let Congress decide whether to leave the Iran deal in place is part of a larger trend, writes David A. Graham: “Seldom has a president sought to hang so many of his own burdens on a Congress controlled entirely by his own party.”
Facebook and Democracy: The 2016 presidential election marked the most significant shift in the technology of politics since the television—and almost no one saw it coming. (Alexis C. Madrigal)
No Luck: After enjoying a series of victories in September, the expiration of the Children’s Health Insurance Program has reminded Democrats of the grim reality of being the minority party. (Russell Berman)
Radio Atlantic: Few journalists have gotten a peek inside X, the secretive lab run by Google's parent company Alphabet. Its scientists are researching cold fusion, hover boards, and stratosphere-surfing balloons. Derek Thompson, staff writer at The Atlantic, spent several days with the staff of X. In this episode, he tells Matt and Alex all about what he found, and what it suggests about the future of technological invention.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

What Happens Now?: On Thursday night, the Trump administration announced it would stop funding Obamacare’s cost-sharing subsidies. Here’s what that means. (Tami Luhby, CNN)
Roy Moore’s Past: In 2004, Alabama leaders attempted to remove sections of the state constitution mandating school segregation; Roy Moore, who is currently the GOP Senate nominee, helped crush the effort. (Cameron Joseph, Talking Points Memo)
Can’t Undo: Federal investigators believe Twitter was Russia’s primary tool in promoting Donald Trump over Hillary Clinton during the presidential election. But tweets and data that could be crucial to the probe may no longer be available. (Josh Meyer, Politico)
‘We Were in Survival Mode’: As a wildfire engulfed their home in Santa Rosa, California, one couple spent six hours in their neighbor’s pool to escape the flames. (Robin Abcarian, Los Angeles Times)
Is Democracy in Decline?: Vox’s Sean Illing spoke with 20 of the country’s top political scientists about the state of American democracy. They’re worried.
Leaving NAFTA: President Trump has threatened to pull the United States out of the North American Free Trade Agreement. This is what would happen if he did. (Ana Swanson and Kevin Granville, The New York Times)
On Sunday, the Trump administration released a list of immigration reforms it wants fulfilled in exchange for a DACA fix, throwing a wrench in attempts to reach an agreement on protections for young undocumented immigrants, who were brought to the U.S. as children. This week, we asked what immigration reforms, if any, you hope to see in exchange for a DACA solution.
Janet said she wants the immigration process to be “more transparent, straight-forward and easier to understand for applicants.” And Roger says he would hope for “more border security [through the construction of the] wall,” as well as increased border patrol, and increased deportation of illegal immigrants who have committed serious crimes.
Rachel Scott argues that building a wall is “senseless”:
The cost of such a wall would be a ridiculous waste of money, from a government which wrings its hands about whether it will continue to be able to fund Social Security, and which has yet to tackle America's crumbling infrastructure.
Thanks to everyone who submitted responses, and stay tuned for next week’s Question of the Week.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


Whereas Donald J. Trump stood beneath American flags on the steps of the United States Capitol on January 20, 2017, placed his hand on a Bible, and spoke these words:
I, Donald John Trump, do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the Office of President of the United States; and will, to the best of my ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States, so help me God.
Whereas the Constitution of the United States reads in part, “Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances.”
Whereas Trump has responded to news coverage he dislikes by advocating that the freedom of the press be abridged by bureaucrats and legislators; and by calling the press a public enemy and a target of his “drain the swamp” agenda.
For example:
Whereas Trump has responded to protected speech he dislikes by calling for a punitive government response and issuing commands to private citizens like a king or tyrant.
For example:
Whereas the aforementioned statements, individually or in aggregate, establish a clear pattern of failing to defend the Constitution and repeated attacks on its Bill of Rights.
Whereas it is a high crime to violate one’s sworn oath to the supreme law of the land.
Wherefore, Donald John Trump, through flagrant violations of the oath he took before God, country, and flag, warrants impeachment, trial, removal, and public disgrace.


If there’s a kernel of bipartisan agreement in the polarizing politics of health care, it’s that President Trump’s decision to withhold subsidy payments to insurance companies that cover low-income Americans under Obamacare will jeopardize affordable health coverage for millions of consumers.
What’s not yet clear is how many people could be immediately affected, nor whether Congress has the willpower to step in and mitigate the damage.
“It’s one of the worst things the president could do to sabotage the Affordable Care Act,” declared Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer in words that summed up the view of the entire Democratic Party. A number of Republican lawmakers were dismayed as well, both out of concern for their constituents and the fear that voters would punish them for higher prices and the chaos the move could sow in the health-insurance system. Senator Susan Collins of Maine, Governor Brian Sandoval of Nevada, and Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida were among the Republicans criticizing Trump on Friday.
A Stunning Blow to Obamacare
“It’s going to hurt people. It’s going to hurt kids. It’s going to hurt families. It’s going to hurt individuals. It’s going to hurt people with mental health issues. It’s going to hurt veterans. It’s going to hurt everybody,” Sandoval told The Nevada Independent on Friday morning.
Democrats immediately put the onus on GOP leaders on Capitol Hill to allow a vote on legislation that would authorize the payments to insurance companies and end a years-long legal dispute over whether Congress appropriated the money in the first place. The Trump administration had couched its decision on a court ruling that Congress never explicitly authorized the payments, even though it had been making them for months before the president moved to cut them off Thursday night.
“Republicans in the House and Senate now own the health-care system in this country from top to bottom,” Schumer told reporters, “and their destructive actions, and the actions of the president, are going to fall on their backs.”
Trump’s move could increase the chances of a government shutdown in December, when Democrats might demand the inclusion of insurer payments in exchange for their votes on legislation to fund federal departments and agencies through next year. And it heightens the pressure on Republican Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and Democratic Senator Patty Murray of Washington State, who have spent weeks trying to negotiate a bipartisan compromise that would guarantee the insurer payments for one or two years while allowing states some flexibility to relax insurance regulations under Obamacare. The two senators, who are leaders of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, are “pretty close” to a deal, a senior Democratic aide told me on Friday. “We feel optimistic that we can get one,” the aide said, adding that an agreement could be reached in a matter of days.
The bigger, and still unanswered, question is whether Republican leaders would endorse that kind of deal and whether Trump would sign it into law. At their heart, the Alexander-Murray talks are about propping up the Affordable Care Act, while the president’s actions are aimed at unraveling the law with the hopes of bringing about its repeal.
Trump’s move to terminate what are known as “cost-sharing reduction” payments comes just three weeks before the beginning of the open enrollment period for coverage on the individual insurance market. Insurers had already locked in their rates for 2018, and Trump’s decision does not take away subsidies for people eligible for government assistance.
But because companies in many states were relying on those federal payments to make a profit, lawmakers in both parties on Friday voiced concerns that the president’s decision would prompt a last-minute rush to the exits by insurers, which could leave people in counties across the country without options to buy insurance. That would depress enrollment in the exchanges, which would likely spur more insurers to leave next year, further reducing choices and driving prices even higher.
Trump has telegraphed his intentions repeatedly, and did so again in a tweet Friday morning. Republicans have been unable to repeal Obamacare on their own, but by tipping the law into collapse, the president wants to force Democrats to the negotiating table on a replacement measure. “Dems should call me to fix!” Trump said on Twitter.
Democrats, however, are adamantly against anything that smacks of repeal and are only willing to discuss changes that would improve the current system rather than rip it out entirely. And with Trump’s approval rating low and polls showing voters will blame Republicans for the health-care mess in 2018, Democrats feel the political wind at their back. “In this, politically, he’s in much worse shape than we are,” Schumer said. “So I don’t think he has much leverage to threaten or bully.”
Many rank-and-file Republicans tend to agree with Schumer’s assessment. When Trump threatened to stop payments to insurers earlier in the year, GOP lawmakers—even some that support repealing Obamacare—began calling for him to keep them going or for Congress to approve them legislatively. That continued on Friday. “We can’t wait any longer. The time to act is now,”said Representatives Tom Reed, a Republican of New York, and Josh Gottheimer, a New Jersey Democrat, in a joint statement.
Those that back the cost-sharing reduction payments are up against conservatives who view them as bailout for insurers. And that view has found a sympathetic ear in Trump. “That money is going to insurance companies to lift up their stock price, and that’s not what I’m about,” the president told reporters outside the White House on Friday. “Take a look at who those insurance companies support, and I guarantee you one thing, it’s not Donald Trump.” Still, he said multiple times that he wanted to strike a deal with Democrats to deliver “great health care” for the country.
The chief obstacle is that when Trump and Democrats talk about an agreement on health care, they’re still talking about two vastly different solutions to the problem, and in the eyes of Democrats and a sizable number of Republicans, the president’s move against insurers on Friday made it even worse.


Bill Clinton fought Congress tooth and nail, from shutdowns to impeachment. George W. Bush boasted that he was “the decider.” Barack Obama groused that if lawmakers were unwilling to take actions he wanted, he would take up his “pen and phone.”
Donald Trump, however, is more than willing to let Congress act. Of all the norms that he has upended in his short tenure as president, Trump’s willingness to pass the buck back to lawmakers is one of the most unexpected, curious, and perhaps salubrious. This impulse was on display in two major moves this week, on health care and the Iran deal, and this week the White House also laid out its principles on a third—how to deal with so-called Dreamers. In each of these cases, the Trump administration seems to be shifting responsibility to Congress so that the president is freed of it, while also hoping or expecting lawmakers will act to preserve the status quo.
A Stunning Blow to Obamacare
In each of these cases, Trump is also taking a power that Obama specifically claimed for the presidency and insisting that Congress take it instead. Take the health-care issue. As my colleague Olga Khazan reports, Trump has decided to cut $7 billion in cost-sharing-reduction subsidies—basically, payments to insurers that make it worth their while to offer plans on the Obamacare marketplaces. If the CSRs aren’t replaced, insurers may jack premiums up or withdraw from the exchanges altogether. Either of those could destroy the insurance marketplaces and produce millions more uninsured Americans. By reversing course, the administration is also jolting insurers, who complain that they need to have a stable, consistent environment to do business.
There’s an arguable constitutional rationale for Trump’s action. House Republicans sued the Obama administration over the CSRs, insisting that they were not specifically provided for under the law, and therefore were an unconstitutional appropriation and that Congress must be involved. Courts haven’t decided that question yet. But it’s hard to take at face value the White House’s solemn invocations of respect for the separation of powers, given, for example, the president’s attacks on the judicial system for striking down his travel ban.
Trump hates Obamacare, but he is also a politician, and he realizes that no matter how many times he says the law is either Obama’s or Democrats’ fault, it will look bad for him if millions of Americans lose insurance on his watch. Trump is taking a gamble by killing the CSRs: He’s assuming that if he kills them, members of Congress will take action to either replace them or else rework the health-care system more comprehensively. Trump doesn’t really want the health-care system to collapse—there’s no indication he fully understands how it works—but he wants to be able to keep his promise of gutting Obamacare. Forcing Congress to clean up the mess achieves what Trump wants.
The same is true when it comes to the Iran deal. Trump is expected to announce Friday afternoon that he will decertify the agreement, which prevents Iran from building nuclear weapons. A law passed in 2015 requires the president to sign off on the deal every 90 days, saying that Iran is in compliance and that the deal is good for American national security. Twice already, Trump has certified the deal, and there’s no evidence that Iran is not in compliance.
The problem is that candidate Trump promised to shred the agreement. He is irked by news stories cheekily pointing out that he has twice certified it, and he’s irked by just having to deal with it every three months. Yet many of Trump’s top advisers think the deal is important, including Iran hawks like Secretary of Defense James Mattis, who said last week that it’s in U.S. national-security interests, and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. Chief of Staff John Kelly and National-Security Adviser H.R. McMaster also seem to think the deal’s benefits outweigh its weaknesses.
Decertification offers a nifty escape hatch for Trump: He can decertify the agreement and then bounce it to Congress, which very well might decide to leave it in place—even fierce critic Representative Ed Royce said this week the United States should remain in the deal—while washing his hands of the matter.
Finally, there’s the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, the Obama-era order known as DACA that allowed unauthorized immigrants brought to the United States as children to stay in the country under certain conditions. Trump promised during the campaign to immediately cancel the program, but once in office he began to soften. Finally, in September, he announced that he was going to phase it out—but he has repeatedly encouraged lawmakers to pass their own law to achieve the same ends as DACA, and has implied that if they don’t, he will: “Congress now has 6 months to legalize DACA (something the Obama Administration was unable to do). If they can’t, I will revisit this issue!” Senator James Lankford, an Oklahoma Republican, just told The Washington Post that Trump was willing to extend the deadline.
In August, James Hohmann wrote in the Post that congressional misgivings about Trump might lead Congress to demand back authority it has yielded to presidents over the course of several decades. As Hohmann noted, a congressional bill imposing sanctions on Russia (as well as Iran and North Korea) represented a fresh assertion of congressional power. But it turns out that even without Congress demanding it, the Trump administration is yielding powers back.
From the perspective of separation of powers, this may well be a good thing, even if every indication is that Trump’s intention in taking these moves is to shift responsibility and blame to Congress, not strengthen the Constitution. (After all, he has also spent this week complaining about First Amendment protections.) Indeed, as we have seen, in each one of these cases, Trump seems to be seeking political absolution while maintaining the status quo. Presidents have often run against Congress, but seldom has a president sought to hang so many of his own burdens on a Congress controlled entirely by his own party.
The political problem in all of this, and the danger—for Trump; for people on the insurance exchanges; for Dreamers; for U.S. national security—is that Congress won’t act. No one has been more strident in criticizing legislators for failing to repeal and replace Obamacare than Trump has, and yet he’s now placing a big bet on the same body to handle not just one but three explosive, divisive issues.
What’s hard to tell is whether this is naive or disingenuous. An interview with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross on Thursday indicates that for at least some members of the administration, it’s the latter. Ross had no illusions, telling Newsmax: “It’s the Congress. That’s where the flaw comes. You can do whatever you want in the administration. Congress is much more about process than about results.” Trump has also bridled against the Washington process, complaining that things were much easier when he was a businessman and could act without dealing with coequal branches. On DACA, the White House has laid out a set of demands that make it almost certain Congress cannot succeed.
Still, the fact is that whatever his motives, Trump has entrusted Congress with control over several major policies, each of which could have major ramifications for the nation and his presidency. The president who once promised “I alone can fix it” has decided he’d just as soon let someone else fix it, or take the political heat if they can’t.


After a run of unlikely victories last month, it seemed possible for Democrats to forget—at least momentarily—that they were the party shut out of power in Washington.
They had watched in gleeful relief as Republicans failed yet again to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Democratic leaders Nancy Pelosi and Charles Schumer had persuaded President Trump to abandon the GOP leadership in a fiscal agreement, and they were poised to strike yet another favorable deal on immigration. Republicans were mired in the kind of infighting that usually follows defeat.
Yet the last two weeks have tested the limits of the Democrats’ leverage, offering them bitter reminders that success for the minority party is relative, and often fleeting. On Sunday, Trump laid out a list of hard-line demands on immigration that seemed to extinguish hopes for a quick agreement to shield young undocumented immigrants from the threat of deportation. Then, on Monday, Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, announced that the EPA would fully repeal the Obama administration’s Clean Power Plan to combat climate change. And on Thursday, Trump signed an executive order that could ultimately destabilize Obamacare’s insurance markets and achieve at least part of the outcome Republicans failed to accomplish legislatively.
When Nancy Pelosi Confronted Donald Trump
All the while, Democrats have been frustrated at a Republican move they consider just as galling as Trump’s ongoing effort to undo his predecessor’s legacy—the GOP congressional leadership’s refusal to take up legislation to reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program, or CHIP, and provide federal funding for community health centers. CHIP expired at the beginning of the month after Congress missed a deadline for extending the 20-year-old program, jeopardizing health coverage for nearly nine million kids in low-income families nationwide.
At least 11 states are likely to run out of federal funding by the end of the year, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, and if Congress doesn’t act soon, some of them will freeze enrollment and begin sending out letters warning parents that their children will lose insurance. CHIP has faced political challenges before: In 2007, President George W. Bush twice vetoed bills that would have expanded the program. But this is a new low, advocates said.
“This is the first time they’ve actually just let it expire,” said Bruce Lesley, president of the nonpartisan group First Focus, which advocates for policies that benefit children.
First enacted in 1997 as part of legislation written by Republican Senator Orrin Hatch and the late Democratic Senator Edward Kennedy, CHIP has a long history of bipartisan support. The House and Senate are both considering bills that would extend the program for another five years, but the two parties are still haggling over whether and how to pay for its roughly $8 billion cost. In the Senate, the GOP’s last-ditch effort to repeal and replace Obamacare forced party leaders to scrap plans to vote on CHIP at the end of September. And House Republicans postponed a vote planned for this week on a companion bill that might have lacked the support to pass.
At issue is the GOP’s demand that funding for CHIP be offset by cuts to Medicare and the Affordable Care Act. The House proposal would force wealthier Americans to pay a larger share of their Medicare premiums, an idea once championed by Obama but only as part of a much broader deficit-reduction agreement. Democrats have rejected that, arguing that the U.S. can afford to provide health coverage for low-income families without stripping it for others.
“It is reflective of a continued vision for Republican leadership here, and under President Trump, that health care in this country for some reason is a zero-sum game, that you can only extend coverage and care for kids, for community health centers, at the expense of something else,” Representative Joseph Kennedy III, a Massachusetts Democrat, said in an interview. “In order to cover somebody, you have to take it away or degrade the quality of care for somebody else.”
“We don’t have to do that,” Kennedy said.
Democrats now face a choice. Do they agree to health-care cuts elsewhere to ensure that CHIP continues, or do they hold firm and bet that Republicans will not be willing to suffer the inevitable political blowback that will come once states start cutting enrollment? “They’re going to lose this battle,” Representative Jan Schakowsky, an Illinois Democrat, predicted to me. “CHIP is going to be reauthorized.” Schakowsky added that the same political dynamic that stymied Republicans on Obamacare repeal would ultimately reemerge on CHIP. “People get health care,” she said. “They may not get Russia. They may not even get North Korea. But health care is personal.”
Yet having watched House Republicans pass Obamacare repeal despite plenty of evidence it was unpopular, Kennedy acknowledged that Democrats can’t just assume the GOP will come around. “Republicans are in control of the levers of power here for the most part, and with that comes the opportunity to frame that debate and frame that discussion,” he told me. “I’m disappointed and frustrated and saddened that this is the path that Republicans in Congress have taken. But I’m not surprised, at all.”
Representative Greg Walden of Oregon, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said this week the party had postponed a floor vote on the GOP’s CHIP bill to buy time for more negotiations with Democrats. He warned, however, that “if the minority wants to reach a bipartisan agreement, time is of the essence.” Lawmakers and aides predicted the dispute would ultimately get resolved, either with the passage of bipartisan legislation in the next few weeks or a reauthorization of CHIP as part of a year-end omnibus spending package. “They have to act before then,” Lesley warned. “If they wait until December, you’re going to have chaos in a lot of states.”
The missed deadline has already had consequences, he said. States like Minnesota have been forced to request emergency transfers of money from the federal government to keep their programs running, and Lesley said other states are already shelling out funds to prepare contingency plans in case Congress doesn’t act. “That’s money coming out of the allotments that should be going to children’s health coverage,” he said.
Advocates are also worried about what will happen once families start receiving dis-enrollment notices. “That’s a huge problem,” Lesley said. “If you’re a parent and you get a letter like that, that in 60 days your kid will be cut off of coverage, you don’t sleep at night.”
For Democrats, CHIP’s precarious position is an obvious consequence of their minority status. There’s little doubt that even with Republicans in control of Congress, a President Obama or Hillary Clinton would have made reauthorization of the program a priority. Trump, on the other hand, has never mentioned it in public, and while Republicans support its extension, CHIP has taken a back seat to a host of other issues. The GOP’s slim congressional majority gives Democrats the power to block most legislation, and they’ve taken full advantage of situations when Republicans need their help to enact must-pass funding bills. But on issues where inaction is an option, that leverage dwindles. When it comes to things like gun control, immigration, and even health insurance for children, Democrats have found they have barely any power at all.


President Trump signed an executive order expanding the use of certain types of health plans, which could undermine Obamacare. Trump implied on Twitter that he may pull back on federal aid to Puerto Rico. The State Department announced that the U.S. will withdraw from UNESCO, the UN cultural organization, citing “anti-Israel bias.” An American woman and her family were freed, after being held in captivity for five years by a Taliban-connected group in Pakistan. The death toll from the wildfires raging in Northern California rose to 26.
Why Have People Stopped Moving?: A new report shows that while highly skilled workers can relocate to cities for better-paying jobs, low-income workers simply can’t afford the housing costs. (Alana Semuels)
In With the New: The Democratic Party has a major problem going into 2018: Its growing young and diverse voter base is not reflected in its leadership. (Ronald Brownstein)
Girls Allowed: After over a century of distinguishing themselves from the Girl Scouts, why do the Boy Scouts now want to include girls? (Taylor Hosking)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

The Unofficial Count: The official death toll from Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico is 45 people. But reports on the ground show that there could be hundreds more. (Eliza Barclay and Alexia Fernández Campbell, Vox)
Everything Is Fine: During a White House press briefing, Chief of Staff John Kelly refuted reports that tensions are growing between himself and the president: “Unless things change, I'm not quitting, I'm not getting fired, and I don't think they'll fire anyone tomorrow,” he said. (Louis Nelson, Politico)
‘The Greatness of George Will’: The conservative columnist has become “part of the furniture of Washington life,” and, at this point in his long career, is best known for criticizing President Trump. (Andrew Ferguson, The Weekly Standard)
Enablers: Harvey Weinstein’s actions are reprehensible, argues Bret Stephens, but he, as well as figures like Bill Clinton and Donald Trump, have “benefited from a culture that often celebrated, constantly depicted, sometimes enabled, seldom confronted, and all-too frequently forgave” their behavior. (The New York Times)
Make Politics Boring Again: The hyper-partisan state of American politics has nothing to do with public policy and everything to do with social issues. That’s because the best public policy debates are boring. (Noah Rothman, Commentary)
‘He Excelled as a Detective, Until Prosecutors Stopped Believing Him’
by The New York Times’ Joseph Goldstein
The American criminal-justice system places extraordinary weight on the word of police officers to function. As this report shows, when those officers tell lies large or small, the effect can be corrosive for their cases—and for public faith in the rule of law.
—Associate editor Matt Ford
Consequences: Check out this flowchart to see what happens if President Trump decides not to decertify the Iran deal. (Uri Friedman, The Atlantic)
What Works to Stop Mass Shootings?: This matrix shows where the public opinion and gun-policy experts agree on proposed gun legislation. (Margot Sanger-Katz and Quoctrung Bui, The New York Times)
On Sunday, the Trump administration released a list of immigration reforms it wants fulfilled in exchange for a DACA fix, throwing a wrench in attempts to reach an agreement on protections for young undocumented immigrants, who were brought to the U.S. as children. The White House’s proposal includes cuts to legal immigration and the construction of a border wall, among other reforms. Most Americans oppose a border wall, and few say it would lead to a major reduction in illegal immigration.
What immigration reforms, if any, do you hope to see in exchange for a DACA fix—and why?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


On Wednesday, the Boy Scouts of America announced it will soon allow girls to join the organization as Cub Scouts and earn the rank of Eagle Scout, marking a significant policy shift in the organization’s over 100-year history.
“The values of Scouting—trustworthy, loyal, helpful, kind, brave and reverent, for example—are important for both young men and women,” said Chief Scout Executive Michael Surbaugh in a statement. “We strive to bring what our organization does best—developing character and leadership for young people—to as many families and youth as possible as we help shape the next generation of leaders.”
From Girl Scout to Girl Scouts' CEO
It’s the latest move by the organization to attempt to open up its membership. In 2013, the organization lifted the ban on openly gay scouts and in 2015, ended the prohibition on gay leaders. Earlier this year, the Boy Scouts of America also said it will allow scout members that self-identify as male, creating room for transgender members.
Wednesday’s announcement, however, received pushback from the Girl Scouts of the USA, which has long been an alternative for girls and recently criticized the Boy Scouts for considering opening its doors to girls. “The need for female leadership has never been clearer or more urgent than it is today—and only Girl Scouts has the expertise to give girls and young women the tools they need for success,” the Girl Scouts said in a statement.
The two organizations have developed markedly different curriculums over the past century. In their earliest years, Boy Scouts teachings were imbued with a more frontiersmen ethos connected to the national narrative of moving west, while the Girl Scouts were a more urban movement teaching both domestic and outdoor skills, said Tammy Proctor, the head of the history department at Utah State University and author of the book Scouting for Girls: A Century of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts.
I spoke with Proctor in order to understand the historic separation between the two organizations and why they seem to be at odds over the question of co-education. Our conversation has been lightly edited for length and clarity.
Taylor Hosking: How did the Girl Scouts get its start?
Tammy Proctor: When [Robert Baden-Powell's guide book for scouting] Scouting for Boys was first published serially in 1907, there was a lot of interest among both boys and girls. It was a movement designed for boys, but a lot of girls got a hold of the book and were doing scouting. In some cases, they even wrote-in to headquarters using their initials rather than their first names, so they were kind of unofficial girl scouts. But early leadership got concerned because they were afraid that boys would be turned off from a youth movement that had girls in it. They thought it would be unappealing; it wouldn’t be manly.
Baden-Powell enlisted his sister as head of the girls version of the movement, called the Girl Guides, and published the first girls version in 1909 and then the organization got off the ground in 1910. These early years were kind of messy and they really felt strongly that it should be a single-sex movement for each, that their development was different. When the movement spread to other countries, including the U.S., it did so as a single-sex movement. The British Boy Scouts developed boy scouting movements in other places and the Girl Guides developed girl scout movements in other places—and they weren’t always at the same time.
There might be a year or two lag between a boys movement and a girls movement. In the U.S., the two movements were pretty different from the beginning. Juliette Low, who was the founder of the Girl Scouts, had actually worked in a Girl Guides troop in Britain. And in the same way, the Boy Scouts were founded out of the boy movement in Britain.
Hosking: How is the purpose of the Girl Scouts different than the Boy Scouts?
Proctor: From the beginnings of the two movements, there’s been friction. In the 1920s, the Boy Scouts actually sued the Girl Scouts in court over the name “scout.” They thought it was a male term. There were legal battles—and battles in the media—over this. In some countries, there’s a closer relationship between the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts. But in the U.S., they’ve functioned as totally separate organizations and they don’t always get along.
That being the case, they developed separately. The Boy Scouts built different kinds of alliances and they’ve built an image of being a more conservative movement since the 1980s. They also have a very close relationship here in Utah to the Church of Latter-Day Saints, for instance. But the Girl Scouts have gone the other way: They’ve pushed the boundary a little bit since the 1970s and 1980s on women’s occupation, they’ve taken on different issues regarding sexual identity, and pushed to diversify at least in their language. The Girl Scouts headquarters are in New York City, which doesn’t define who your organization is, but it orients your organization differently than having headquarters in Texas, where the Boy Scouts are.  
Hosking: Did the Girl Scouts face backlash for wanting to empower women as they expanded?
Proctor: The movement, from the beginning, has always had a pretty strong emphasis on empowering girls, but sometimes that meant empowering them to be strong mothers of families. It wasn’t to necessarily liberate girls from all of the roles they were expected to perform, it was to emphasize education and preparedness. But in some communities over the years, the Girl Scouts have gotten fire for being too progressive with the social issues they take on and the projects they encourage. For example, they did a big career program in the 1960s and 1970s about girls in science, which involved girls going to a space center to learn about what it would be like to be an astronaut or taking girls to different kinds of occupations like firehouses. In some places, that pushed some buttons, but the national organization has stood pretty firmly behind that notion of empowerment, I think.
Hosking: If the two organizations have developed so independently, how did we get to a place where Boy Scouts feel pressured to allow girls in?
Proctor: There has been an ongoing debate about whether this should happen or not. Internationally, there are many countries that have co-educational scout movements. In Europe, in places like Scandinavia, they’ve merged Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts into one organization. But in those cases, the two organizations worked together and they merged to create a co-educational movement. In the U.S. case, it looks like a turf war because the Girl Scouts are adamantly not participating. This is about the Boy Scouts allowing girls in. I think the Boy Scouts are under pressure because they’re losing members. They’re under pressure to do something new and look for new members in a broader way.
It’s interesting that they’ve been emphasizing the Cub Scouts in their media because most people have fewer objections to co-education when kids are young than they do when they’re 15 or 16. And Boy Scouts have long-encouraged female leaders for the younger kids and have been less interested in having female leaders for teenage boys.
Hosking: Why are the Boy Scouts losing members?
Proctor: I think clubs generally in the U.S. have lost members. There’s literature that suggests kids are doing a lot more activities early, particularly sports, and they’re kind of overextended. To add on an additional activity of doing scouting might just be the tipping point. [Both Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts] have also had an issue recruiting leaders: Volunteerism in the U.S. has fallen precipitously in recent years.
The Boy Scouts have been struggling with a lot of issues regarding their social attitude, particularly regarding homosexuality. I’m not sure they’ve managed those well in the media. There was a fairly large alternative scout movement that was pushing back against policies that wouldn’t allow gay leaders and gay scouts. This close relationship they’ve had with the Church of Latter-Day Saints in recent years has contributed to their conservative image, too. The Mormon Church announced recently they might create their own movement, which would pull some members away, as well. But I think it may be overarching trends that started the decline, and they’ve been trying to respond to that in a variety of ways since maybe 30 years ago even.
Hosking: What would girls have to gain by joining the Boy Scouts?
Proctor: I think for girls joining a boys movement there’s a bit of a forbidden fruit factor that they can do anything boys can do which doesn’t exist in the same way for boys wanting to join a girls movement. There’s a power dynamic there of girls being excluded in the past and now they can do anything a boy can do. Kids don’t necessarily divide by sex segregation when they play or in their communities, so I think this allows groups of friends to join a movement together.
Ironically, that’s what you were seeing in 1908 when these kids were getting a hold of the book before the boys movement was really founded. I had this great letter that a boy wrote in about how he and his sisters were starting a scout troop and it was because they were playmates and they were a group of friends. They weren’t really seeing it as ‘we’re boys and we’re girls,’ they wanted to just do this together.


Updated at 12:20 p.m. ET
SAN JUAN, P.R.—The Luis Muñoz Marín Airport here is bustling even in the earliest hours of the morning. People wheel around elderly relatives in need of dialysis, hoping to get a spot on flights that have been overbooked, even though many airlines have resumed full menus of flights to the mainland. Several other people are visitors with no intent at all of flying out—it’s just that the airport is one of the few stable sources of power and cell signal in the city, where street lights and turn signals are all completely dark through the day and night, and where hundreds of people queue in front of government buildings for a spot of WiFi or a phone charge to call relatives.
New Storms Set Back Relief Efforts on Puerto Rico
These conditions represent the best-case scenario right now on the island of Puerto Rico, which is still in need of immediate relief three weeks after the landfall of Hurricane Maria. While some of the worst-hit areas in San Juan have suffered catastrophic damage—the La Perla neighborhood where the music video for Luis Fonsi’s “Despacito” was shot has been almost completely destroyed—the situation elsewhere is much more dire.
Interior towns like Utuado and Barranquitas face total isolation, landslides, and dwindling supplies. FEMA estimates that over a third of the islanders are in need of water, a fact underscored by alarming reports that some people have tried to obtain drinking water from contaminated EPA Superfund sites. In all, millions of people are struggling to find basic necessities, and the presence of federal aid has been tenuous or lacking in rural areas. People are dying, and people will likely continue to die from worsening illnesses.
It’s with this slow recovery ongoing that President Trump began a series of tweets on Thursday morning that seemed to imply he might pull the plug on federal aid to Puerto Rico. “We cannot keep FEMA, the military & the first responders, who have been amazing (under the most difficult circumstances) in [Puerto Rico] forever,” Trump said. He cited a financial crisis “largely of their own making,” as well as the island’s crumbling infrastructure before the storm—suggesting he would seek to place more of the burden of saving Puerto Rico on Puerto Ricans.
That implication is in line with previous statements Trump has made about the island’s people. In tweets late last month, he attacked the mayor of San Juan, Carmen Yulín Cruz, for her “poor leadership ability”; said Puerto Ricans “are not able to get their workers to help” with the recovery effort; and alleged that “they want everything to be done for them when it should be a community effort.”
His comments Thursday also come as the future of aid to the island remains uncertain. Both the local and federal governments will have to contend with Puerto Rico’s crushing debt, which Trump floated canceling in a Fox News interview earlier this month. Since then, however, the administration has reversed course, promising to hold Puerto Rico to its obligations.
The exact shape of an initial relief package from Congress is as-yet unknown, but it could echo the White House’s position. The Intercept has reported that early versions of the debt-relief bill would appropriate few funds directly to Puerto Rico, instead creating a general relief fund that it would share with states affected by hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. Most of the funds earmarked specifically for the territory would come in the form of a $5 billion loan, not a grant, which would only add to its staggering debt. Puerto Rico—which already turned down a similar loan principle from its bondholders—might not have room to negotiate or outright reject any deal. It’s expected the territorial government will run out of money this month.
This message out of Washington amounts to a doctrine of personal responsibility and culpability applied only to Puerto Rico and its people—not the other areas of the United States affected by recent storms. The federal government appears willing to forgive some of the debt of the National Flood Insurance Program, and it has provided much more comprehensive relief support for states hit by hurricanes. That doctrine has developed as federal and charity aid has been slow or has failed to materialize in some of the most desperate places. And it flies in the face of best practices for disaster relief, practically promising a punitive end: The federal government could pull back its support while still charging interest on any loan Congress approves.
One piece of good news for people on the island is that Trump—despite his threat—isn’t entirely in charge of relief. Acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke is visiting the island Thursday, and FEMA is bound by an aid request from Governor Ricardo Rosselló, as well as by disaster-assessment and -grant guidelines. And Puerto Ricans—often in the absence of help from authorities—have created their own support networks, taking in victims with destroyed houses and ferrying supplies in their own cars to communities in the interior.
But the situation will continue to be deadly for some time. Electricity, water, gas, and other basic necessities will be in short supply for months. Hospitals will struggle, trash and debris will mount, and environmental issues will continue. And Puerto Rico looks poised to contend with a White House that deprioritizes its recovery. Rosselló put it this way in a tweet Thursday morning: “The U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico are requesting the support that any of our fellow citizens would receive across our Nation.”


Like grinning pumpkins left too long in the rain, the president’s first two travel bans are collapsing into a soggy mess.
That collapse is being portrayed as a victory for the administration, but it is not. The ban and the government’s inept efforts to defend it have permanently damaged this administration’s legal credibility.
In a brief order this week, the Supreme Court vacated a decision from the Fourth Circuit that struck down the ban on immigrant and non-immigrant admissions, leaving nothing for it to decide. A provision of President Trump’s executive order temporarily suspending entry had “expired by its own terms” on September 24, the announcement said. Thus, the case challenging it, filed in Maryland, is “moot”—meaning time has passed it by. Under an existing Court practice, the justices left the previous district- and circuit-court decisions, and the injunction, devoid of legal force.
Trump's Newest Travel Ban
Still “live,” for the moment, is the case coming to the Court from Hawaii, which in part contests a provision in the ban barring the entry of refugees. A Hawaii court had blocked that part of Trump’s executive order; the Fourth Circuit had not. But because the refugee ban will expire this month—the refugee quota, by statute, resets every October 1—it seems likely the justices will toss this case as well.
That would end the challenges to the first and second iterations of Trump’s travel ban. (The second version was issued on March 6 after courts rejected the original.) A case against the third and latest version, issued September 24, remains, for the moment, alive in a court in Hawaii.
That ban may prove much harder to challenge than the first two. In fact, the whimpering fate of the first two travel bans may say less about the resilience of the American legal system than about the incompetence of the early Trump White House. Better preparation for the ban at the beginning might have turned the result the other way.
The administration issued the order a week after Trump took office, but it seemed surprised when chaos erupted at the airports. Some passengers who lived in the United States faced immediate exclusion; lawyers swarmed the courthouses; and district judges, seeking to calm the airports, issued orders requiring the admission of the passengers. The judges had to make those decisions on the fly. Some had only minutes or hours to read the order. To most of them, I suspect, it seemed to fulfill Trump’s campaign promise of a “total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States.”
The bad first impression deepened as judges read the order again and again in the next weeks. The drafters framed it as what Rudolph Giuliani called a “geographic,” not religious, order—a ban on entry from seven predominantly Muslim countries, along with a halt in all refugee admissions. But judges smelled a rat—especially in language offering entry to “minority religions,” when the geography targeted was majority Muslim.
From a legal point of view, the order was simply wretched work. There was no sign that any serious lawyer had read it, much less that it had gone through careful vetting by the departments of Justice, State, or Homeland Security. No one seemed to have foreseen that it would trap existing visa and green-card holders. An extralegal “clarification” by the White House counsel deepened the confusion: Don McGahn told Homeland Security the order didn’t apply to residents; he was apparently unaware that the counsel has no authority to vary or change a presidential order. And Justice Department lawyers told the judges that the president’s decisions on immigration were completely “unreviewable” by judges—a hard argument to sell to, well, judges. But it was all they had. The administration had kept them in the dark, too.  
Meanwhile, Trump attacked the “so-called judge” who issued the first injunction, then threatened the Ninth Circuit while it was hearing the case. The administration lost. Stymied in court, the administration withdrew the original order and unveiled a new one in March. It fixed some of the worst problems, but the White House had already lost its credibility; the lower courts enjoined the second order, too.
But let’s imagine a universe in which the White House had involved competent lawyers at the agencies and produced something like the latest travel ban, the strongest of the three, from the start. Imagine they had taken the time to brief Justice Department lawyers on the order and its basis. Imagine Donald Trump had kept his Twitter thumb still as the cases went to court.
I think such a ban’s chances in the lower courts, and especially at the Supreme Court, would have been pretty good.
The reason is that while many people—me included—immediately thought the order was illegal, explaining why was difficult, at least in terms of existing precedent. Immigration laws really do delegate broad (if not unlimited) authority to the president, to whom courts have often deferred. Some cases even suggest that constitutional limitations—like the equal-protection prohibition on race discrimination, or the First Amendment’s Establishment Clause—don’t apply to immigration matters at all. The Fourth Circuit powered past this problem by using Trump’s campaign statements, tweets, and winks at the camera to argue he had discriminatory intent. The Ninth Circuit dodged it by deciding the president hadn’t complied with the immigration statutes, leaving the constitutional issues alone.
I was not sure how those arguments would fare at the Supreme Court. The Court initially narrowed the lower-court injunction against the provision barring immigrants from specific nations when it agreed to hear the cases. The two appeals courts had enjoined the entire ban, meaning that aliens had to be admitted as before. But the Supreme Court said instead that the United States only had to admit people with a “bona fide” connection to the country. That signaled that a majority of the justices were troubled by the injunction. Meanwhile, the three most conservative ones—Clarence Thomas, Samuel Alito, and Neil Gorsuch—voted to uphold the ban in its entirety, suggesting they were sure votes for the administration.
It was not clear that the statutory argument would move even the Court’s more liberal justices. Past cases suggest the Court would be wary of relying on campaign speeches and tweets to establish government purpose, or of extending constitutional guarantees to immigration. To strike the ban down, the justices would have had to make new law limiting the executive’s power—and that they are often reluctant to do.  
If I am right, then the third travel-ban order may very likely be upheld. It is written like an actual legal document. Its terms are tailored to specific countries; it includes two non-Muslim countries, Venezuela and North Korea; and, most important, it contains broad authority for consular officers to make individual exemptions for deserving cases in the affected countries. By the lights of this Court, it may not be illegal.
Though it seems years ago, the first travel ban was issued only nine months ago. It’s not impossible that those around Trump have learned from the debacle. If so, their future efforts at imposing Trump’s will may be less easy to thwart.


For a party banking on America’s future, Democrats have grown top-heavy with leaders rooted in its past.
When Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein of California announced this week she would seek reelection next year for a term that would extend past her 91st birthday, she underscored the generational logjam within the highest echelons of the Democratic Party. Though the party now increasingly relies on younger and non-white voters, its post-Barack Obama leadership—both in Congress and the top tier of possible 2020 presidential contenders—is almost entirely older and white.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
The instability of this dynamic was evident in 2016, when Hillary Clinton, the party’s 69-year-old presidential nominee, struggled to excite Millennial and minority voters despite the clear and present danger Donald Trump presented to almost all of the values they profess. “There is a great urgency for Democrats now to turn the generational wheel,” said Simon Rosenberg, founder and president of NDN, a Democratic advocacy and analysis group. “It’s a pragmatic, practical thing that the younger candidates are just going to do a better job of speaking to this emerging coalition that we have,” which “has not been turning out with the frequency and intensity that we need.”
Yet younger and diverse leaders remain as rare as MAGA hats at the very top of the Democratic ladder. In the Senate, Democrats are led by three white seniors: Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (age 67) and assistant leaders Dick Durbin (72) and Patty Murray (67). In the House, the big three are Nancy Pelosi (77) and Steny Hoyer (78), both white; and James Clyburn (77), who is black.
The top of the potential 2020 Democratic presidential field is just as white—and gray. The three possible candidates with the largest national followings are Bernie Sanders (76), Joe Biden (75 next month), and Elizabeth Warren (68). The younger Democrats who might join them—from Senators Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, and Kamala Harris of California, to even longer-shot possible candidates like Representatives Seth Moulton of Massachusetts and Tim Ryan of Ohio—would begin far back on key measures like name recognition and fundraising capacity.
Congressional Republicans have an even weaker record on diversity—their top three leaders in each chamber are white men. But their leadership is younger; think House Speaker Paul Ryan, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, and Senate Conference Chair John Thune. In the 2016 presidential contest, two 40-something Hispanic Republicans, Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio, fought their way into the race’s final rounds.
The irony is that Democrats have the greater need to elevate leaders who can connect with younger and diverse voters. Whites older than 45 now routinely provide a majority of the votes for GOP presidential candidates. That means Democrats need to maximize both turnout and their margins among non-white and younger voters (who are themselves far more diverse than older generations of voters). Despite the provocation Trump provided, Democrats decisively failed on that front in 2016: Turnout among white and Hispanic Millennials disappointed, and it plummeted among younger African Americans compared with 2012.
“The Democratic coalition is full of new, episodic, and younger voters who are not yet regular voters,” Rosenberg said. “Finding candidates like Obama who can excite this coalition that is far younger than the Republican coalition becomes a political necessity.”
In fairness to Democrats, it may be harder for them to elect minority candidates to statewide office, because the GOP label makes it far easier for non-whites running as Republicans to attract more culturally conservative whites. But it’s also true that grooming candidates who reflect the Democratic coalition hasn’t been a priority for party officials in the racially diverse states that should be producing the next generation of leaders.
California exemplifies the problem. As of last November’s election, the state’s top elected positions were held by three white Democrats born before Pearl Harbor: Governor Jerry Brown and Senators Feinstein and Barbara Boxer. When Boxer retired, she created an opening for then-Attorney General Kamala Harris, the energetic daughter of an Indian mother and Jamaican father. Boxer was an effective senator, but Harris (52) has provided a charismatic jolt of electricity to Democrats nationwide.
Many California Democrats were hoping Feinstein, at 84, might similarly allow another new figure to shine—one like state Senate President Kevin de Leon (50) or Representative Adam Schiff (57), a leader in the House Russia investigation. “There are people who are yearning to see some younger blood in the state,” Kimberly Ellis, who ran for state Democratic chair this year, told The New York Times after Feinstein’s announcement.
Bill Carrick, Feinstein’s longtime chief strategist, told me such considerations pale against the practical value of reelecting a senator with seniority—especially given the threat Trump presents to the state. “Do you want to give that up now and start with a freshman senator, or do you want somebody who is going to take them on on issues like immigration and has the skill and the clout to get things done?” Carrick asked.
That’s a reasonable argument—and one voters will weigh if de Leon or another opponent (such as activist-meets-financial entrepreneur Joe Sanberg) challenges Feinstein in a primary next year. The problem for Democrats is what makes sense for any individual incumbent doesn’t compute for the party collectively. While Sanders energized Millennial voters during the 2016 Democratic primary, and the salty Biden might project more authenticity to young people than Clinton did, Democrats are still tempting fate by trying to rally a coalition for the internet era with so many leaders who can distinctly remember their first color TV.


NBC News reported that in a July 20 meeting, President Trump said he wanted to increase the country’s nuclear arsenal tenfold. Trump denied the report, calling it “pure fiction.” Later, during an Oval Office meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Trump added that it is “frankly disgusting the way the press is able to write whatever they want to write.” The Boy Scouts announced that starting next year, girls will be allowed to become Cub Scouts and earn the rank of Eagle Scout. Trump will deliver a speech in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, later tonight on his tax-reform plan.
Storm Setbacks: Vann R. Newkirk II reports from Puerto Rico, where worsening weather threatens landslides and slows recovery in the aftermath of Hurricanes Irma and Maria.
No Easy Solution: Is there a legislative solution for mass shootings? The answer is complicated. (Elaine Godfrey)
‘There Is Only One Version’: Republican leaders assumed Donald Trump would become more restrained in office—but they were catastrophically wrong. (McKay Coppins)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Profile of a Press Secretary: Sarah Huckabee Sanders is more than an “all business” podium persona, writes Michelle Boorstein; she has become the most visible evangelical in U.S. politics. (The Washington Post)
More Wrangling Than Usual: A number of prominent Republicans and Trump advisers are reportedly concerned that the president is descending into a particularly negative and unstable state. (Gabriel Sherman, Vanity Fair)
Exodus: Puerto Ricans who left the U.S. territory after Hurricane Maria now face the prospect of staying on the mainland for the indefinite future, which could result in one of the most significant migrations in the island’s history. (Gisela Salomon and Claudia Torrens, Associated Press)
‘Playing Chicken’: Guantanamo Bay prison officers have reportedly begun waiting longer to force-feed hunger-striking prisoners, putting detainees in danger of organ damage or even death, lawyers say. (Charlie Savage, The New York Times)
Leaving It to the Lawmakers: Pushing for Obamacare-repeal, rescinding DACA, and now potentially decertifying the Iran deal: President Trump continues to heap responsibility on Republicans in Congress to sort out tough policy debates. (Louise Radnofsky and Kristina Peterson, The Wall Street Journal)
A Grim Return: As California residents return to their homes, they reflect on what was lost and discuss their plans to relocate or rebuild. (Julia Carrie Wong and Erin McCormick, The Guardian)
California’s Charred Ruins: Drone footage shows the extent of the devastation caused by the wildfires in Northern California. (Josh Hander, Troy Griggs, and Anjali Singhvi, The New York Times)
On Sunday, the Trump administration released a list of immigration reforms it wants fulfilled in exchange for a DACA fix, throwing a wrench in attempts to reach an agreement on protections for young undocumented immigrants, who were brought to the U.S. as children. The White House’s proposal includes cuts to legal immigration and the construction of a border wall, among other reforms. Most Americans oppose a border wall, and few say it would lead to a major reduction in illegal immigration.
What immigration reforms, if any, do you hope to see in exchange for a DACA fix—and why?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Lena Felton (@lenakfelton) and Taylor Hosking (@Taylor__Hosking)


Updated at 9:35 p.m. ET
President Trump’s latest call for a First Amendment-defying crackdown on the American press began, as they so often do, with a morning venting session on Twitter.
“Fake @NBCNews made up a story that I wanted a ‘tenfold’ increase in our U.S. nuclear arsenal. Pure fiction, made up to demean,” Trump tweeted Wednesday morning. Ten minutes later, he followed up with a proposed solution: “With all of the Fake News coming out of NBC and the Networks, at what point is it appropriate to challenge their License? Bad for country!”
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
By the afternoon, Trump’s media bashing had migrated to the Oval Office, where, sitting next to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, the president again tore into NBC News for its “fake” story. “It’s frankly disgusting the way the press is able to write whatever they want to write,” Trump said, without irony. “And people should look into it.” And by Wednesday night, his earlier suggestion about challenging networks’ licenses had morphed into a demand: “Network news has become so partisan, distorted and fake that licenses must be challenged and, if appropriate, revoked,” the president wrote on Twitter. “Not fair to public!”
Public riffs targeting the press are nothing new for Trump. He has made little secret of his deeply felt dislike for the Fourth Estate—and, in fact, his hyperconfrontational attitude toward the mainstream media was one of the things that first endeared him to Republican primary voters.
But while Trump is often the one who gets the blame (or credit) for today’s dramatically escalated culture war on the press, the roots of these attacks go much deeper. As I wrote in a new essay for the fall issue of the Columbia Journalism Review,  the history of modern Republican politics is rife with examples of conservatives—from Barry Goldwater to Sarah Palin—working to discredit journalism.
But for most of the past half-century, conservatives have at least claimed their press criticism was aimed at spurring reform. “We all know that you can’t live in a free country without a free press,” Fox News contributor Bernard Goldberg told host Bill O’Reilly in 2012. “But you know what else? You can’t live in a free country for long without a fair press. We need a strong mainstream media. That’s why you and I criticize it.”
In the Trump era, that pretense has been dropped. With the rapid growth and rising influence of the conservative-media complex, most on the right seem to have given up on trying to “fix” the mainstream press. And many of the powerful figures in that world now openly declare that they are working to bring about the demise of the nonpartisan journalistic establishment in America.  
Matt Boyle, the Washington editor for Breitbart News, told young conservatives in a speech at the Heritage Foundation in July that his goal was “the full destruction and elimination of the entire mainstream media.” He’s not alone. This sentiment can be found at almost every level of the conservative media today. From my CJR essay:
“Nothing is grander, nothing is more glorious, nothing is more satisfying, nothing is sweeter, nothing is more validating, nothing is better for America than the death of the mainstream media’s political power,” John Nolte crowed in The Daily Wire the day after the election.
The Gateway Pundit flatly declared, “The mainstream media is your enemy.” And Infowars captured the sentiment by featuring an editorial cartoon depicting right-wing media figures as asteroids hurtling toward earth where news-network dinosaurs await their “extinction.”
In a decidedly dystopian spin on service journalism, some in the conservative media have begun providing their audiences with how-to guides for finishing off the journalistic establishment. [Radio host Rush] Limbaugh told his listeners they should stop consuming news from the mainstream press altogether. “I’ll let you know what they’re up to,” he assured them. “And as a bonus, I’ll nuke it!” [Fox News’s Sean] Hannity urged his viewers to start targeting individual journalists—and their bosses—on social media. And the alt-right blogger Roosh Valizadeh has called for a coordinated campaign of bullying aimed at reporters. “Make them appear as ‘uncool’ salarymen in the eyes of the public,” he wrote. “Mock their appearance, their mannerisms, and their weaknesses.”
Most Americans might be inclined roll their eyes at all this rhetoric. But the widespread destructionist attitude toward American journalism on display in the conservative media today means that Trump would have a loud and enthusiastic cheering section if he ever decided to actually follow through on his threat to the networks. And given the immense political power these figures have demonstrated over the past two years—culminating in the election of a conservative media darling to the presidency—it would be a mistake to take their agenda lightly.


As every toddler knows, bigger is better, whether that’s two scoops of ice cream (versus one for everyone else), a border wall, or a nuclear arsenal.
And that was President Trump’s reaction during a July meeting with military and national-security leaders about the nuclear arsenal, too, according to NBC News. In total, he sought a tenfold increase in the U.S. store of nukes:
Trump’s comments, the officials said, came in response to a briefing slide he was shown that charted the steady reduction of U.S. nuclear weapons since the late 1960s. Trump indicated he wanted a bigger stockpile, not the bottom position on that downward-sloping curve.
Trump’s aides were taken aback: “Officials briefly explained the legal and practical impediments to a nuclear buildup and how the current military posture is stronger than it was at the height of the buildup.” Officials said there’s currently no plan for a massive buildup.
If Trump’s approach to nukes and ice cream alike is childlike, this story is the latest example of how Trump’s aides treat him like a child too. In the case of the nuclear weapons, advisers seem to have taken Trump’s outburst as bizarre and dangerous and quietly moved to suppress it. In the past, aides have disagreed with presidents’ judgments as unwise, worried that their drinking would on occasion render them dangerous, or expressed concern that they were suffering from senility. Nor is it uncommon for a politician’s critics to describe him as childish and unprepared—decades before Lloyd Bentsen slammed Dan Quayle as “no Jack Kennedy,” Richard Nixon warned that Jack Kennedy was not prepared for the presidency.
Are Trump's Feuds With Tillerson and Corker a Prelude to War?
What is different in the Trump administration is that it’s the president’s own loyalists who view, speak about, and treat him as a child.
This is apparent in  Secretary of State Rex Tillerson’s description of the president, following this meeting, as a “moron”—suggesting that Trump is simply not cognitively or emotionally up to the job. And this week has seen several other examples. There is of course Senator Bob Corker’s remark that the White House functions as “an adult day care” and his follow-up to The New York Times: “He doesn’t realize that, you know, that we could be heading towards World War III with the kinds of comments that he’s making.” Corker also complained, like a weary parent, “I don’t know why the president tweets out things that are not true. You know he does it, everyone knows he does it, but he does.” Corker, who chairs the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, indicated he does not trust Trump to keep America safe, saying that Tillerson, Defense Secretary James Mattis, and Chief of Staff John Kelly “are those people that help separate our country from chaos.”
Other aides spoke about Trump this week like an under-napped toddler on the verge of a tantrum. The Washington Post reports: “One Trump confidant likened the president to a whistling teapot, saying that when he does not blow off steam, he can turn into a pressure cooker and explode. ‘I think we are in pressure-cooker territory,’ said this person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to talk candidly.”
Dan Drezner has spent months cataloguing devastating instances of infantilizing language on matters great and small. Kellyanne Conway compared dealing with him to her daughter—she has to lay out outfits for her daughter to choose from, for example. Trump encourages this attitude, especially with playground insults like mocking Corker’s height or challenging Tillerson to an IQ test.
This infantilizing impulse permeates the White House on matters concrete and abstract. Multiple reports have focused on how Kelly views controlling the flow of information to the president as a paramount task—because aides cannot rely on the president to seek out reliable news and data or to assess them critically. The Los Angeles Times reports the two men have engaged in repeated shouting matches recently, and Kelly keeps being filmed or photographed looking embarrassed as Trump speaks—like a pained father whose kid is pitching a fit in the cereal aisle at the grocery store.
Kelly’s predecessor, Reince Priebus, was not especially successful at controlling information flow to the Oval Office, but he had his own strategies for managing the president. Politico’s Josh Dawsey reported this week on how Priebus would often convince Trump to defer some impulsive decision until the following week, knowing that Trump would forget or change his mind by then: “Delaying the decision would give Priebus and others a chance to change his mind or bring in advisers to speak with Trump—and in some cases, to ensure Trump would drop the idea altogether and move on.”
Drezner approached the infantilization question through the lens of the ongoing trope among Trump allies that he just needs some time to grow into the role of the presidency. This is the view that Corker espoused until recently, when his decision not to run for reelection freed up his tongue, and it’s one still espoused by Tom Barrack, a Trump confidant who insists to The Washington Post that “in my opinion, he’s better than this.” But there’s another, larger issue at stake. The question isn’t just Trump’s stature and conduct, or the juicy stories that seep out of the West Wing, but very real policy choices, like American nuclear posture.
Or, for that matter, whether the U.S. might go to war soon with either North Korea or Iran, as I wrote yesterday. On the North Korean front, the president has repeatedly made bellicose remarks for months, even as aides try to slow-walk the slide toward war, warning of the catastrophic destruction that would result, insisting that all options remain on the table, and trying to keep diplomatic channels open—only to see Trump repeatedly undercut them. Even as the president seems eager for confrontation, more prudent members of the team have sought to redirect his anger.
Bargaining is another technique, as recent news about Iran shows. While many of Trump’s aides had their gripes about the 2015 deal with Tehran to prevent nuclear proliferation, most of them seem to agree that keeping the deal in place is far preferable to eliminating it. But now the administration seems likely to punt the issue, decertifying the deal but leaving it to Congress to either let it stand or fall. (So much for Harry S. Truman’s “the buck stops here.”) Why take this halfway step? Part of it is that, just as on DACA, Trump wants to keep a campaign promise to end the deal without suffering the consequences, but another part is childish petulance: Olivier Knox reports Trump simply hates being confronted with the need to recertify the deal every 90 days.
And then, as every parent knows, sometimes you just have to give in—let the kid have a victory on something less significant. Aides can try to prevent war with North Korea, and they can seek compromise on the Iran deal, and they can quietly kill the demand for more nukes, but they’ve got to let the president have his way on occasion. When Trump demands “goddamned steam” to power catapults on aircraft carriers, aides shrug and let it go.
Trump’s childish behavior was worrying when it involved belittling his opponents, discussing his genitalia, or taking swipes at former Miss Universe Alicia Machado, but it takes on a new level of danger when it affects U.S. military policy, from Iran to North Korea to the nuclear arsenal. There’s a powerful, perhaps too powerful, urge to seek historical analogues for Trump, but seldom has there been a president whose own loyalists and insiders were so dismissive of his maturity, judgment, and prudence. So how does the presidency work when the president’s aides treat him like a child? The immediate answer is, not very well. The longer-term answers are murkier and scarier.


During last year’s election—back before Washington Republicans awoke to the dangers of an erratic and impulsive commander in chief tweeting his way into “World War III”—there was a common argument deployed by party loyalists in defense of Donald Trump: He’ll behave himself once he’s in office.
GOP leaders generally acknowledged (on and off the record) that their nominee’s reckless campaign-trail persona was not suitable for the leader of the free world—but they insisted there would be a difference between Candidate Trump and President Trump. He would surround himself with competent advisers; lean on the good judgment of his running-mate Mike Pence; and mellow out as he confronted the full burdens of the office.
Pay no attention to the nervous nellies fretting about Trump’s temperament, said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell at the time: “I think Donald Trump will understand when he’s sworn in the limits of his authority. He’ll have a White House counsel. There will be others who point out there’s certain things you can do and you can’t do. And it’s not quite like, you know, making a speech before a big audience and entertaining people. And I think he’s a smart guy, and I think he’s going to figure that out. So I’m not worried about it.”
Don’t get hung up on the frivolous personality issues, said House Speaker Paul Ryan: “It’s not just a choice of two people, but two visions for America”—and Republicans needed a president who would sign their conservative legislation.
Ironically, this sentiment was perhaps best articulated by Tennessee Senator Bob Corker—the Republican chairman of the Senate foreign relations committee who has emerged in recent days as the leading Republican voice sounding the alarm about the president’s volatility and incompetence.  In a 2016 interview with the Tennessean newspaper, Corker dismissed what he called the “caricature” of Trump as an impetuous man who should be allowed nowhere near the nuclear football.
“Once you come into the Oval Office, and you understand the tremendous decisions that you have to make and the magnitude of those and the effect that it’s going to have on the world,” Corker said, “I think that there’s a tremendous soberness and typically when you go in, you can end with lots of very highly qualified people around you.”   
Only now, nine months into the Trump presidency, are Republicans like Corker admitting how badly they misread the situation—and just how catastrophic the consequences to their wrongness could be.
“For many within the party, there was still a belief that once Trump became president, the weight of the job would cause some changes,” said Doug Heye, a Capitol Hill veteran who worked for House Majority Leader Eric Cantor. “This is not necessarily misguided—the presidency has, in one way or another, changed every previous inhabitant.”
Like many of his Republican friends in Washington, Heye said he was “swept up in Inaugural enthusiasm” at the outset of Trump’s term—convinced that the conservative administration the president was assembling would work with the GOP-controlled Congress to push through major policy victories. Instead, the Republican legislative agenda has all but ground to a halt, and the White House has remained in a near-constant state of chaos as a rotating cast of beleaguered aides tries and fails to rein in the mercurial commander in chief.   
These days, Heye told me, he’s feeling less sanguine: “I’ve never forgotten what one House member privately told me on the day before the Inauguration: ‘This won’t end well.’”
One of the main reasons so many Capitol Hill Republicans were confident that Trump would settle down and conform to the conventions of the office was that they had followed similar trajectories themselves. In the years since the Tea Party wave of 2010, scores of conservative lawmakers have arrived in Washington fresh off campaigns in which they gave provocative (and sometimes racially charged) stump speeches, made outlandish promises to their grassroots constituents, and generally pledged to act as anti-establishment insurgents hell-bent on disrupting the D.C. status quo.
They attempted to make good on those promises, at least for a while, with dramatic filibusters, government shutdowns, and fiscal-cliff brinksmanship. But over time, many of those same lawmakers have found themselves conforming to the conventions of Washington. They’ve realized that the responsibilities of their office—like constituent services, and dull committee hearings—do not lend themselves to the kind of constant drain-the-swamp revolution that they had campaigned on. And so, they’ve adapted.
“The Tea Partiers came to Congress and assimilated into the customs and norms of the body,” a senior Senate GOP aide told me. “They aren’t ‘go along, get along’ by any stretch of the imagination, but they generally act within the norms of the office. President Trump hasn’t assimilated from reality-show TV to the norms and traditions of the presidency.”
“You can argue that’s good; you can argue it’s bad,” the aide added, but “it puts a lot of people on edge … and that can be said for friend and foe alike.”  
Not everyone in the party is buying this, of course. Nick Everhart, a Republican consultant who has advised many Tea Party candidates over the years, told me anyone who watched the 2016 election unfold and thought Trump could emerge as a paragon of presidential restraint once in office was fooling themselves all along.  
“Very few people ever really change,” Everhart said. “And if they do, it takes an enormous amount of self-awareness and an acceptance of fault or responsibility. I mean, come on … there was no way anyone could believe they were going to get a different version of Donald Trump. There is only one version.”


SAN JUAN, P.R.—The hurricane is long gone, but it’s the regular storms that are now providing some of the biggest challenges to relief and recovery in Puerto Rico. On Tuesday, heavy rainfall from a tropical wave affected most municipalities, which face flash-flood watches through Wednesday night. While a brief reprieve is expected Wednesday morning, rain has been forecast for most of the next week. Storms like these are common on the tropical island, but in the post-Maria landscape here, they can be ruinous and deadly all on their own.
On Tuesday, the rainfall affected roads almost immediately. The soil remains saturated from Irma and Maria, and just minutes after the first drops fell, segments of major roads became partially flooded or unusable. Traffic slowed to a standstill in most outbound directions from San Juan, turning the drive to nearby city Caguas—normally a 20- to 30-minute proposition—into a half-day exodus. Carolina Pichardo, a pediatrician who works in Caguas and lives in San Juan, told me that her commute to work took about two-and-a-half hours each way.
Pichardo’s story is indicative of the kinds of barriers that make relief work so difficult, especially in rough weather. San Juan is something of a nerve center for much of Puerto Rico, and many people—including doctors, nurses, and social workers—who work in rural parts of the island regularly commute from their homes in the city by road. While the gasoline shortages that once caused kilometer-long queues at stations have eased near the capital, the roads themselves are bottlenecks for aid, and for rebuilding other parts of the island’s infrastructure.
Maria Elena García, an environmental activist based in San Juan, says that the weather turned a routine supply run yesterday to Corozal, a mountain town to the southwest of San Juan, into a nightmare. “It took us the whole day,” she says. “One of the main bridges was washed out, then on the back roads we had to inch down roads that felt like they were going to collapse at any minute. We were afraid we might trigger landslides.”
The worsening weather poses a real and dire threat of landslides for the interior of Puerto Rico. Mountainous areas are already prone to landslides, and Maria itself caused many such disasters. The town of Utado was impacted severely by a landslide in the aftermath of the hurricane, and government analysis of satellite imagery shows dozens of other hard-hit areas.
Carlos Burgos, a chef whose family resides in the interior municipality of Barranquitas, said that washed-out roads and landslides “had totally disconnected” that town and others like it. And in Barranquitas, as in many other places on the island, immediate relief has had to come from concerned citizens like Burgos and García, as organized relief efforts based out of San Juan have been slow and hyper-centralized.
Sustained rainfall can only make these problems worse, and is almost certain to make the distribution of aid—even from FEMA and the military, which have access to helicopters and airplanes—more difficult and slow-going. The infrastructure has trouble coping with regular rainfall. But now, the weather compounds a deeper misery.


The rapper Eminem performed a freestyle takedown of President Trump on television Tuesday, calling out the hypocrisy of his extravagant travel, his bumbling incompetence, and his disrespect for a POW before dubbing him “Donald the bitch.”
The performance was perhaps the most prominent instance of a white celebrity defending the NFL players protesting the killing of African Americans by police officers.
And the flagrant disrespect the entertainer showed for the president felt like karma, and not just because Trump has called the protesting NFL players sons of bitches. Recall that during last year’s Republican primary, Trump was able to excel in part by taking advantage of the fact that he had no respectability to maintain, no sense of shame or decency to limit him, and no reputation for good character to lose.
None of the other candidates could pull off bragging about their penis size on stage, insulting a rival’s wife, or appending juvenile nicknames to competing pols. The Access Hollywood tape would’ve sunk any other candidate. But why would it lower anyone’s opinion of a man who gave a radio host permission to call his daughter “a piece of ass”?
To fight Trump as Trump fought would have required a Jeb Bush or John Kasich or Marco Rubio to embarrass their mothers, spouses, and kids, to sully their souls and their respectability.
Eminem is not similarly constrained.
The superstar rapper has been marshaling profane lyrics, rejecting political correctness, calling out hypocrisy, and raising a defiant middle finger at critics for 25 years, a period in which he became one of the world’s best-selling recording artists. His many fans appreciate that he says what he thinks. Oh, and he’s from the Rust Belt. If there’s a more apt foil for Trump, or any celebrity of comparable stature who could seem half as authentic calling him “Trump the bitch” on national TV (while insisting that the president doesn’t have the balls to respond), I don’t know who it is.
And yes, “Trump the bitch” is too vulgar for many to celebrate. Alas, as long as Trump inhabits the White House, Eminem-style vulgarity is presidential. Trump’s banter with Billy Bush was certainly more degraded than anything in Eminem’s substantively civic video, where after a few fits and starts, the flow smooths out and the blows start to land:

Eminem underscored the irony of his emergence as a moralizing political critic with the line, “Trump, when it comes to giving a shit, you’re as stingy as I am!” In fact, Eminem’s reputation for not giving a shit, his impulse to burn everything down—if only metaphorically—with his lyrics, and his explicit hostility to the notion of serving as a role model, lend a fraught wrinkle to his turn as an earnest denouncer of Trump’s depredations. If Eminem feels a need to object, if Eminem can easily seize the moral high ground from the president of the United States, and if it now falls to Eminem of all people to defend core civic values, what does that say about us?
Yet here we are, with years of Trump ahead of us, and all divisions his tenure will stoke. “Any fan of mine who’s a supporter of his / I’m drawing in the sand a line,” Eminem rapped. “You’re either for or against / And if you can’t decide who you like more and you’re split / on who you should stand beside, I’ll do it for you with this [middle finger].”
Will the president respond?
Said an observer on Reddit, “never underestimate Trump’s stupidity, but I have to believe someone on his staff would physically remove the phone from his hand before he started a war of words with a master battle rapper with 21,000,000 followers.”
In this chaos presidency, with even Eminem worried that the erratic president who commands the U.S. military may needlessly start a war that kills millions, that doesn’t seem a safe bet.


Authorities discovered 23 guns in the Las Vegas hotel room of Stephen Paddock, the man who opened fire on a crowd of country-music fans on October 1. At least 12 of those guns were weapons equipped with bump stocks, devices used to increase a gun’s rate of fire. In the days following the massacre, lawmakers on both sides of the aisle suggested Congress should review rules regulating bump stocks. The National Rifle Association, which is typically quiet after mass shootings, broke its silence to say the same.
But as policymakers and influence groups were debating legislation, another more fundamental debate began among those who have spent their careers studying gun violence: Are mass shootings a problem with a meaningful legislative solution?
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
The consensus among most researchers is that America does, indeed, have a gun-violence problem: Nearly 12,000 people have died in gun-related incidents so far in 2017. Since only an estimated 2 percent of those deaths are in mass-shooting events, though, some within the gun-research community suggest that it’s best not to craft legislation around comparatively rare occurrences. But that’s the kind of argument that makes other researchers want to pull their hair out.
Advocates for gun-control legislation often have a single policy prescription for preventing mass shootings: If people on the terror-watch list were barred by law from obtaining a gun, Omar Mateen might not have been able to murder 49 people at Pulse nightclub in Orlando last year. If it were illegal to purchase high-capacity magazines, maybe Adam Lanza wouldn’t have been able to shoot so many first-graders in Connecticut. If dealers were required to report gun buyers purchasing multiple weapons in a short time period, perhaps Paddock would have been more closely watched.
Leah Libresco is skeptical of those proposals. A statistician and former writer for FiveThirtyEight, Libresco wrote a column in The Washington Post describing her previous research on gun-control legislation for the data-journalism site. “My colleagues and I at FiveThirtyEight spent three months analyzing all 33,000 lives ended by guns each year in the United States,” she wrote. “We looked at what interventions might have saved those people, and the case for the policies I'd lobbied for crumbled when I examined the evidence.”
“There isn’t an easy solution where we can simply ban something and make a big impact,” Libresco told me in an interview. “Pushing these solutions eclipses the bigger goal, which is to reduce gun death.” For Libresco, that means addressing the high rate of suicides—which make up 60 percent of gun deaths in the U.S. every year—and gang violence. She thinks lawmakers and activists should work on developing tools for suicide outreach and creating chains of accountability between family and friends of gun owners, as well as deploying intervention teams to partner with locals in communities with high levels of gang violence. Change, she says, is more likely to come from protecting victims and reforming would-be killers, than legislatively regulating the weapons themselves.
Conservative outlets have republished Libresco’s arguments and applauded her conclusion, praising it as a refreshing and well-reasoned take when so many others are clamoring for hard-and-fast reforms. But David Hemenway, an economist and a professor of health policy at the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, thinks Libresco undersells what can actually be done. “No one law is going to say, ‘Hey now we’ve eliminated this problem,’” Hemenway said, but “if you did a lot of things, it would be a great help.” Interest in gun-control legislation grows after major shooting events, he argued, and the opportunity shouldn’t be squandered.
Hemenway rattled off a cocktail of legislative remedies: Requiring all gun buyers to undergo a federal background check before purchasing a weapon from a federally licensed dealer or a private citizen; implementing one-gun-per-month laws, which would crack down on weapon trafficking across state lines; a host of gun-safety regulations, like requiring gun owners to lock up their guns; getting gun manufacturers to develop semi-automatics that won’t fire when the magazines are removed; and gun-violence restraining orders that allow family members to petition a court to remove a person’s access to firearms.
“I could list 60 things,” he says. But he argued that reducing the availability of firearms could have a powerful effect. “You make things harder, fewer people do it.”
Libresco’s argument that there is no single, easy solution to America’s gun-violence problem is true partly because of the sheer number of guns. “With 320 million guns out there, any law you adopt is going to be necessarily less effective,” said Adam Winkler, a law professor at UCLA and author of Gunfight: The Battle over the Right to Bear Arms in America. “You can ban assault weapons but there’s seven to 10 million assault weapons out there.” Winkler also acknowledged the uniqueness of mass shootings that makes them a very challenging problem to solve.
In the wake of America’s most significant mass shootings, advocates often reach for legislation that would have prevented the latest attack; some seem to push desperately for any law that could prevent even one death in a future mass-shooting event. “It’s that kind of idealism that has saddled the gun-control movement,” Winkler said. “Obviously one life is worth saving, but any [gun-control policy] has to be made in a balance trying to figure out whether it’s worthwhile.”
Getting rid of all guns, for example, would probably save lives, Winkler said, but it would also require ditching the Second and Fourth Amendments. A mixture of several smaller gun laws, however, would make a significant difference in total gun deaths, as well as in mass shootings. And, Winkler said, “we should recognize that many gun-control proposals don’t infringe on people’s rights.”
Approaching mass shootings from a public-health perspective, Winkler said, means working toward a reduction in the daily death toll from guns, which necessarily involves legislating the guns themselves. He, like Hemenway, argues that multiple gun regulations, in aggregate, would have this effect—things like universal background checks and limits on interstate gun purchases.
“[Libresco] is right that the answer is not going to come from broad-based bans on weapons,” Winkler said. “I think she’s wrong that she sets the standard too high.”
Winkler argues for creating an environment in which prospective shooters encounter more obstacles. Closing loopholes and tightening rules will force “someone who wants to do bad things to go deal with bad people.” Will it prevent criminals from getting guns? “No,” Winkler said. “But will it make it harder? And will that make a difference? Yes.”


The regretful Republicans of Kansas have a message for the tax-cutting Republicans of Congress: Don’t follow our lead.
If states are, as Justice Louis Brandeis famously called them, the laboratories of democracy, then Kansas’s experiment in conservative tax reform set off an explosion of red ink. Steep cuts for businesses and individuals failed to produce a promised economic boom, and busted the state’s budget instead. Now, the GOP legislators that oversaw—and ultimately cancelled—that fiscal study are increasingly worried that Washington will ignore its central finding.
A tax-reform plan from the White House and Republican congressional leaders mirrors the structure of the legislation Kansas passed, and it’s been accompanied by the same confident assurances that it will “pay for itself” with economic growth. “That won’t work, so you better learn our lesson,” warned Kansas state Senator Barbara Bollier, a Republican who voted against the tax cuts originally and then fought to undo them earlier this year.
At the behest of conservative Governor Sam Brownback, Republican majorities in Kansas in 2012 set the state’s income tax on a “march to zero” and eliminated taxes on companies whose owners filed their taxes as individuals—a loophole exploited by thousands of businesses that resulted in plummeting revenue to the state’s coffers. Brownback, a former U.S. senator and presidential candidate, hailed the policy as “a real-live experiment” in conservative governance. But in the eyes of all but Brownback and his staunchest supporters, the test failed. Economic growth never materialized, and the state legislature could not summon the political will or overcome legal roadblocks to cut spending to match the lower revenue. With annual deficits in the hundreds of millions, Kansas has been mired in a perpetual budget crisis ever since.
The Death of Kansas's Conservative Experiment
“It was supposed to increase the GDP, and it didn’t. The feds will have that same problem,” said state Senator Jim Denning, a conservative who originally supported the tax cuts. In a phone interview, Denning told me he had done his own economic modeling in 2012 and “proved to myself that the tax cut would work.” But the new policy did not prevent a rural recession in Kansas or a dip in its oil-and-gas business. “It generated hardly any measurable economic activity,” Denning said. By the beginning of this year, he had changed course and voted along with Democrats and a coalition of Republicans to reverse most of the cuts, erasing Brownback’s economic legacy. (The governor won’t be in office much longer: He has accepted a diplomatic post in the Trump administration and will resign once he’s confirmed by the Senate.)
Bollier recalled that Republicans had first tried to offset the steep cuts in tax rates by eliminating deductions and exemptions in the Kansas code. But those proposals could not get through the legislature, exacerbating the resulting increase in the state’s budget gap. “You’ve got to have pay-fors. You can’t do it just by cutting taxes,” she concluded.
A similar debate is now playing out in Congress. Republican leaders, led by House Speaker Paul Ryan, wanted to raise as much as $1 trillion in revenue over a decade by instituting a border-adjustment tax, which would help pay for a reduction in tax rates for individuals and businesses. But conservatives rebelled, forcing Ryan to abandon the idea. The same fate could befall a proposal to raise more than $1 trillion by eliminating the state and local tax deduction, which is facing opposition from Republicans in high-tax states like New York, New Jersey, and California. Suggestions to pair tax cuts with reductions in spending on Medicare, Medicaid, and welfare programs are likely to go nowhere, too.
If Republicans in Washington can pass anything at all, it is likely to be a straight, temporary tax cut that adds to the deficit, which is easier for Congress to do because the federal government, unlike states, does not have to balance its budget. “That, to me, is a very poor decision,” Bollier said.
Kansas Republicans do credit the national GOP for proposing more modest tax cuts than they ultimately enacted. The congressional plan calls for a one-time reduction in income taxes, while Brownback signed a law that set automatic decreases with the ultimate goal of eliminating the state income tax entirely. Kansas’s slashing of the rate for so-called “pass-through” entities, designed to bolster hiring at mom-and-pop businesses, proved to be even more of a budget buster. Nearly 400,000 businesses took advantage of the exemption, reducing the state’s annual tax revenue by between $200 million and $300 million, according to the nonpartisan Tax Foundation.
Republicans in Congress want to cut taxes for pass-through entities, too, but not by nearly as much. They have proposed lowering the cap on those companies to 25 percent, compared with the current top rate of 39.6 percent. Denning said the federal plan looks “way more responsible” than what Kansas did in virtually eliminating taxes on many small businesses.
It is that distinction that members of the Kansas congressional delegation have cited in defending the GOP tax plan. “While some may try to compare this tax-reform framework to what was tried in Kansas, the truth is these two reforms could not be more different,” Representative Lynn Jenkins, who sits on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, said in a statement.
But the concerns of Kansas state legislators go beyond the pass-through policy. They worry that Republicans in Congress, including those in the state’s own delegation, are basing their tax overhaul on the same underlying assumptions about economic growth that have been articles of faith for the party since the Reagan era but turned out disastrously in Kansas. “This is designed to shrink government. It is not designed to grow business,” state Representative Stephanie Clayton told me. “I’ve seen it. It shrinks government. It doesn’t grow business.”
She alleged that Kansas’s representatives and senators in Washington had shown no interest in learning about the state’s experience and were simply following the orders of the Koch brothers, the powerful GOP donors headquartered in the state. “They don’t think anything’s wrong with it, but then again, none of them actually live in Kansas anymore, so what do they know?” Clayton said of the delegation. (None of the members of the Kansas congressional delegation I contacted were available for interviews about the tax plan.)
The Kansas experiment still has its defenders, and chief among them is Brownback, who encouraged President Trump to use his plan as a model and accepted its demise only after the GOP-controlled legislature overrode his veto in June. The Koch-backed Americans for Prosperity hasn’t wavered, either; the conservative advocacy group has attacked state legislators for raising taxes in Kansas and campaigned aggressively for tax cuts in Congress, even at the expense of spiking the deficit. But some of the most influential believers in the revenue-generating power of tax cuts are now in the Trump administration. “Not only will this tax plan pay for itself, but it will pay down debt,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said last month.
When I relayed that argument to Bollier, she just laughed. “I can only say: Look at Kansas,” she replied.


President Trump mocked Senator Bob Corker’s height in a tweet, the most recent jab in an exchange of insults between the two. Trump told reporters he still has confidence in Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, despite offering to compare IQ scores with Tillerson in a Forbes interview. White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders later dismissed the comment as a joke. In a statement, Hillary Clinton said she was “shocked and appalled” by the sexual-harassment allegations against film executive Harvey Weinstein, but did not mention whether she will donate contributions she had received from Weinstein. At least 15 people have been killed as wildfires continue to sweep across Northern California.
Please Exclude Us From This Narrative: Senator Bob Corker said his criticism of President Trump was shared by “a vast majority” of his colleagues. But Republican senators want no part of the feud. (Russell Berman)
‘Is the American Idea Doomed?’: As critics on the left question America’s role in the world, and nationalists seek to emphasize culture over principles, Yoni Appelbaum examines whether Americans’ shared sense of identity is disintegrating.
This Is Us: There’s a term for the current state of the American government, argues Norm Ornstein: It’s “kakistocracy.”
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

The Making of Stephen Miller: Years before the 32-year-old became a key policy influencer in Donald Trump’s inner circle, he had established his brand as a teenage contrarian at the  left-leaning Santa Monica High School. (Matt Flegenheimer, The New York Times)
The Art of the Immigration Deal: If Democrats want to reach an agreement with President Trump to protect DACA recipients, they’ll have to be willing to make a compromise that will open them up to criticism from their own base. (Jonathan S. Tobin, National Review)
‘Inside Trump’s Head’: In an interview with Forbes, President Trump explained why he’s been slow to nominate people for key government positions—and challenged Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to an IQ test. (Randall Lane)
‘Operation: Hollywood’: Here’s how the FBI works to protect and enhance its public image through consulting work on movies and TV shows—from a Watergate biopic to Miley Cyrus’s 2012 flick So Undercover. (Ariane Lange and Jason Leopold, BuzzFeed News)
Accused: Thirteen women interviewed by The New Yorker share stories of being sexually harassed or assaulted by Harvey Weinstein, the film executive and prominent Democratic donor. “If Harvey were to discover my identity,” said one former employee, “I’m worried that he could ruin my life.” (Ronan Farrow)
What They Think of Trump: Check out this graphic to see which Republican senators have been most—and least—supportive of the president. (The Washington Post)
On Sunday, the Trump administration released a list of immigration reforms it wants fulfilled in exchange for a DACA fix, throwing a wrench in attempts to reach an agreement on protections for young undocumented immigrants, who were brought to the U.S. as children. The White House’s proposal includes cuts to legal immigration and the construction of a border wall, among other reforms. Most Americans oppose a border wall, and few say it would lead to a major reduction in illegal immigration.
What immigration reforms, if any, do you hope to see in exchange for a DACA fix—and why?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


It doesn’t matter all that much that Bob Corker and Donald Trump are insulting each other via Twitter. Sooner or later, Trump insults almost everyone. What matters is that Corker, the Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and a confidant of the secretary of state, is warning publicly that “we could be heading towards World War III,” presumably with North Korea. The crucial question is why.
It’s possible that in his New York Times interview, Corker got carried away. As former Bush administration National Security Adviser Stephen Hadley told me, “Forces have not been mobilized. The military is still saying diplomacy comes first.”
But it’s also possible Corker genuinely fears that Trump and Kim Jong Un’s blood-curdling rhetoric, combined with ongoing North Korean missile and nuclear tests and American displays of military force, pose a risk of catastrophic miscalculation—war by accident. Reducing that risk requires meaningful communication between Washington and Pyongyang. And Corker—who told the Times that “in several instances” Trump has “hurt us as it relates to negotiations that were underway by tweeting things out”—seems worried that Trump is rendering such communication almost impossible, thus leaving both the U.S. and North Korea flying blind.
Until recently, the Trump administration’s North Korea policy had two faces. They were reflected in the name of the strategy the administration unveiled in April, after two months of interagency review: “Maximum pressure and engagement.” In the name of maximum pressure, Trump urged China to cease propping up North Korea’s economy. He also sent (or claimed to send) an aircraft carrier to the region to scare Kim, and warned of a “major, major conflict.”
But Trump also made it clear he was open to “engagement”—in some ways, more open than his predecessor. In early May, he said that under the right circumstances, he’d be “honored” to meet Kim. (Imagine if President Obama had said that.) Less publicly, the Trump administration reopened something called “the New York channel.” Since it has no embassy in Washington, North Korea’s mission to the United Nations constitutes its only diplomatic presence in the United States. Pyongyang’s men in New York (and only New York; they’re prohibited from traveling more than 25 miles beyond Columbus Circle) aren’t empowered to negotiate with the U.S. But they can relay messages, and had since the 1990s. That changed last July when the Obama administration imposed sanctions that personally targeted Kim and his top associates, and Kim retaliated by closing the New York channel down.
Soon after taking office, the Trump administration reopened it. Joseph Yun, the State Department’s special representative for North Korea policy, began meeting with Pyongyang’s men in Turtle Bay. And he went further. In May, Suzanne DiMaggio, a senior fellow at the think tank New America, organized a dialogue with North Korean officials in Oslo. Yun showed up and talked to the North Koreans himself. As a result of those talks, Pyongyang allowed officials from Sweden (which represents the U.S. in North Korea) to visit Americans detained in the North’s jails. And in mid-June, Yun himself traveled to North Korea to secure the release of the detained American Otto Warmbier, who later died from injuries he sustained in captivity.
Since the Trump administration lacks a permanent assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, Yun reports directly to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. And DiMaggio believes that Yun’s discussions with North Korean officials in Oslo could have turned into “talks about talks,” the kind of quiet, preliminary discussions that laid the foundation for formal, multinational negotiations between the United States and Iran.
Like the Obama administration, which increased economic pressure on Tehran even as it moved towards negotiations, Tillerson throughout the summer worked to put “maximum pressure” on North Korea while simultaneously signaling that such pressure was aimed at improving America’s leverage in its forthcoming “engagement” with Pyongyang.
A Republican knowledgeable about North Korea policy notes that Tillerson “made North Korea a big priority with other countries. He brought it up in almost every meeting.” And in early August, after Pyongyang tested an intercontinental ballistic missile, the Trump administration convinced China and the rest of the UN Security Council to pass its harshest sanctions ever against Kim’s regime.
But on August 11, just a few days after the sanctions were passed, Tillerson noted that, “We have other means of communication open to” North Korea “to certainly hear from them if they have a desire to want to talk.” 11 days after that, Tillerson observed that since North Korea had not launched any missiles since the UN imposed sanctions, “perhaps we are seeing our pathway to some time in the near future having some dialogue.”
A week later, however, North Korea tested a mid-range missile over Japan. For Trump, that did it. Engagement was over. “The U.S. has been talking to North Korea, and paying them extortion money, for 25 years,” he tweeted the next day, “Talking is not the answer!” In August, Trump also began talking in increasingly graphic terms about the “fire and fury” America could unleash on North Korea in the event of war.
For his part, though, Tillerson kept emphasizing negotiations. On a trip to China in late September, he told reporters that, “We are probing, so stay tuned. We ask, ‘Would you like to talk?’ We have lines of communications to Pyongyang.” A New York Times story written from Tillerson’s trip, and sourced to officials “inside and outside government” suggested that during such negotiations, “the promise of scaling” back U.S. and South Korean military exercises “could be dangled” to convince Pyongyang to freeze its nuclear and missile tests. Yet again, Trump slapped Tillerson down. The morning after the Times story, the president tweeted that, “I told Rex Tillerson, our wonderful Secretary of State, that he is wasting his time trying to negotiate with Little Rocket Man...”
It is Trump’s comments torpedoing talks with the North that appear to have alarmed Corker the most. In the Times interview, he said Trump’s “tweets, especially as it relates to foreign policy issues, I know have been very damaging to us” and have “hurt us as it relates to negotiations that were underway.” He specifically rejected the notion that Trump and Tillerson were engaged in “some good cop, bad cop act” in which Trump’s bellicosity strengthened his secretary of state’s bargaining power. And he warned of miscommunication, saying that Trump doesn’t understand the way “the messages that he sends out” are “being received in other languages around the world.”
In this regard, Corker’s fears resemble those of American reporters who have recently been to North Korea. “To go between Washington and Pyongyang at this nuclear moment is to be struck, most of all, by how little the two understand each other,” wrote Evan Osnos last month in The New Yorker. More recently, The New York Times’s Nicholas Kristof declared that, “I’ve been covering North Korea on and off since the 1980s, and this five-day trip has left me more alarmed than ever about the risks of a catastrophic confrontation.” He urged “talks without conditions, if only talks about talks” to prevent a “crisis that escalates.”
What Corker, Tillerson, Osnos, and Kristof understand is that while a diplomatic deal with North Korea may be impossible, improving communication with North Korea is essential to reducing the possibility of accidental war. Kim is likely to test additional missiles. Last week, two Russian parliamentarians who came back from North Korea suggested that Pyongyang would soon test a missile capable of reaching California. Last month, North Korea’s foreign minister suggested his government might test a nuclear weapon over the Pacific, which would constitute the first atmospheric nuclear test in decades. Given its uncertainty about where such a nuclear test would land, the Trump administration might respond by trying to destroy a nuclear-tipped missile on the launchpad.
Kristof has also warned that “a dogfight between a North Korean and an American plane could cause a crisis that escalates.” In late September, the United States sent B1 bombers and F-15C Eagle fighter planes further north along the coast of North Korea than ever before. DiMaggio, who has been talking to officials from Pyongyang for the past two years, warns that, “This combination of heightened military maneuvers plus escalatory rhetoric could signal to the North Koreans that something is imminent and lead to a miscalculation.” In such an atmosphere, she argues, “having a direct channel that can put Trump’s tweets in context,” is crucial. Without one, “North Korea might read them as signaling a preference for war, and respond accordingly.”
Despite Trump’s efforts, DiMaggio does not believe communication channels between the U.S. and North Korea have entirely closed. But she fears his “rhetoric has undercut some of the quiet diplomacy that has taken place.”
That, I suspect, is what Corker fears too. North Korea has nuclear weapons. Soon, it will likely gain the capacity to hit the United States with them. That means the United States, whether it admits it or not, will rely on deterrence to prevent war. Since deterrence involves sending signals to one’s adversaries, it requires communication to work most effectively. That’s why the United States and Soviet Union installed a “hotline” between each country’s leaders after the Cuban Missile Crisis.
Nothing like that exists between the U.S. and North Korea today, but Rex Tillerson is trying to improvise some sort of substitute. Donald Trump, who keeps threatening war and authorizing provocative military maneuvers, is doing his best to make sure that Tillerson fails. That terrifies Bob Corker. It should terrify the rest of us, too.


It is natural to see Donald Trump’s latest feuds, with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Senator Bob Corker, as just the most recent outbursts from a president who is only comfortable amid feuding. This is, after all, the guy who spent weeks humiliating his attorney general (but never cut him loose) and who runs his Oval Office on the same terms as his reality show, encouraging rivalries and backstabbing. What’s new is the targets.
There’s certainly some slapstick to the latest round. It includes Trump claiming Corker begged for an endorsement before deciding to retire (all reporting suggests that is untrue), and Corker referring to the White House as an “adult day care” while all but calling the president a liar: “I don’t know why the president tweets out things that are not true. You know he does it, everyone knows he does it, but he does.” A headline in the national paper of record states, accurately and forthrightly, “Trump Mocks Bob Corker’s Height, Escalating Feud with a Key Republican.”
'It's a Shame the White House Has Become an Adult Day Care Center'
Even more absurdly, the tiff features Trump challenging Tillerson, who reportedly called him a “moron” over the summer, to an intellectual duel: “I think it's fake news, but if he did that, I guess we'll have to compare IQ tests. And I can tell you who is going to win.” (A State Department spokeswoman clarified Tuesday that the secretary’s IQ is “high.”)
The stakes of these feuds are most readily calculated in very immediate terms—What does this mean for Trump’s legislative agenda?—or very abstract ones—Is Trump destroying the American presidency? The public and press are so accustomed to such outbreaks that we can easily read past the surface and search for the underlying subtexts and palace intrigue. On face, however, the splits with Tillerson and Corker both center around the same material question of whether the United States will start a shooting war, most likely with North Korea.
After a Twitter volley over the weekend, Corker told the Times that he worried Trump didn’t understand the stakes of his statements on foreign-policy questions, viewing it as a “reality show of some kind.”
“He doesn’t realize that, you know, that we could be heading towards World War III with the kinds of comments that he’s making,” said Corker, who is the chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and close to Tillerson, and therefore particularly well-placed to analyze Trump’s foreign-policy choices.
There are two obvious things Corker could be talking about (and one hopes no less-obvious ones): North Korea and Iran. Both of them also intersect with Trump’s differences with Tillerson, too.
In the immediate term, Trump is reportedly on the verge of de-certifying the deal that Barack Obama struck to prevent Iran from building nuclear weapons. The president would likely then punt that matter to Congress, leaving it to decide whether or not the deal remains in place. Trump has long been bluntly critical of the Iran deal, but many people around him are not, including Defense Secretary James Mattis and White House Chief of Staff John Kelly, both of whom are generally Iran hawks but supportive of the nuclear agreement. So is Corker, who struck a deal with Democratic Senator Ben Cardin in 2015 that allowed the agreement to go forward. On Sunday, Trump said Corker was “largely responsible for the horrendous Iran Deal!”
The case for the Iran deal, even among some of those who were critical of it at the time, comes down to a couple major points. One is that a non-proliferating Iran, even under less-than-ideal terms, is better than a proliferating Iran, especially because it might encourage other regional powers (notably the Gulf states) to develop their own nuclear programs, and could weaken American muscle in the Middle East. Another is that pulling out of the deal would create fractures with allies who continue to back it; withdrawing would destroy American credibility, and contra Trump there is little chance of renegotiating at better terms. Both of those reasons make war—something that could spiral into a world war—more likely, as Ilan Goldenberg and Mara Karlin write for The Atlantic Monday.
The more apparently urgent venue for World War III to break out is, of course, on the Korean peninsula. Tillerson reportedly called Trump a moron in July, after a disastrous Trump speech to the Boy Scouts of America (an organization Tillerson previously led), but the current tiff between the men began October 1, with these tweets, three days before the “moron” story broke”
...Save your energy Rex, we'll do what has to be done!
Trump referred to comments Tillerson made September 30, saying that the U.S. had some direct lines of communication with the North Korean regime, short of actually being in negotiations. Trump has repeatedly undercut Tillerson, publicly contradicting his secretary of state. (He says he has not.) The president’s apologists present this as some sort of good-cop, bad-cop routine, but that shtick doesn’t work when Trump is Tillerson’s boss and when he has repeatedly differed from Tillerson around the world; instead, it imparts the lesson that Tillerson need not and in fact should not be taken seriously, because he does not speak for Trump.
Moreover, Trump keeps telegraphing a desire to start a war with North Korea.  Having first drawn blood with his missile-strike on Syria, and been pleased with the reaction from the public and press, Trump seems to want more. Although the official U.S. position, as outlined by other officials, is that all options are on the table, the president keeps suggesting that really only one is on the table. Why else would he so publicly slam the door shut on Tillerson’s open channel to Pyongyang? What else might he mean when he promised that the U.S. will “do what has to be done”?
There are other indications, too. In August, after a North Korean missile test, he said, “They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen. He has been very threatening beyond a normal statement, and as I said they will be met with fire, fury, and frankly power, the likes of which this world has never seen before.” (Aides said the language was improvised, and could not explain what he meant by it.)
In mid-September, at the United Nations General Assembly, Trump said that if Pyongyang’s aggression continued, the U.S. “will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea,” also saying, “The United States is ready, willing and able, but hopefully this will not be necessary.”
Last week, a group of top military brass visited the White House, and Trump made ominous comments to the press.
“Maybe it’s the calm before the storm,” he said. “Could be, the calm. The calm before the storm. We have the world's great military people in this room, I will tell you that. And uh, we're gonna have a great evening.”
When asked for clarification, on two separate occasions, he replied, “You’ll find out.” Even Vox, which prides itself on explaining the news, threw up its hands in perplexity.
The president on Tuesday hosted Henry Kissinger, a notable proponent of dropping bombs on Asian countries, at the White House. The president is schedule to visit South Korea in November, and might visit the Demilitarized Zone between North and South Korea—a setting where he could easily escalate tensions with a remark, whether careless or planned.
Of course, Trump could be just talking trash, trying to do the geopolitical dozens with Kim Jong Un, but there’s no way for Kim, or diplomats from other foreign countries, or the American people to know the difference. (North Korea itself claimed Trump’s UN remarks constituted a declaration of war, though the regime has a long history of similar comments.) The impression of a slouch toward war is sharpened by other evidence. Mattis, for example, on Monday told Army generals to be ready to fight a war in Korea. Some of that is standard readiness, but given his own bleak view of a military solution—Mattis said earlier this year that a war against North Korea would be “catastrophic” and “probably the worst kind of fighting in most people's lifetimes”—it could also be an indication of growing probability of a shooting war.
Several outlets have juicy reports published Monday or Tuesday that all center around the same phenomenon: the question among Trump’s aides of how to manage him.
The Washington Post:
One Trump confidant likened the president to a whistling teapot, saying that when he does not blow off steam, he can turn into a pressure cooker and explode. “I think we are in pressure cooker territory,” said this person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to talk candidly.
Vanity Fair’s Gabriel Sherman:
The next few weeks will surely test Trump and Kelly’s relationship. As Kelly seeks to revive Trump’s stalled tax plan, prevent the Iran nuclear deal from falling apart, and avoid war with North Korea, he’ll also face the challenge of having to manage Trump at Mar-a-Lago. According to two sources, Kelly has developed a Mar-a-Lago strategy to prevent Trump from soliciting advice from members and friends. (In February, Trump turned his dinner table into an open-air Situation Room when North Korea test-fired a ballistic missile.) Sources briefed on Kelly’s plans said he will attempt to keep Trump “out of the dining room.” The plan looks sound on paper—but, to his staff, Trump can be a formidable adversary.
Politico:
Interviews with 10 current and former administration officials, advisers, longtime business associates and others close to Trump describe a process in which they try to install guardrails for a president who goes on gut feeling — and many days are spent managing the president, just as Corker said.
One of the things those guardrails are meant to avoid is, for example, the president precipitously starting a war. But as Sherman writes, Trump is a formidable adversary, and indeed aides have not been able to prevent his off-the-cuff remarks about “fire and fury” and “the calm before the storm.”
The long parade of bellicose North Korea comments could, perversely, be evidence that efforts to defer military action have been working. Politico tells how fired former Chief of Staff Reince Priebus would often persuade the president to put off some action until “next week.” “Delaying the decision would give Priebus and others a chance to change his mind or bring in advisers to speak with Trump—and in some cases, to ensure Trump would drop the idea altogether and move on,” Josh Dawsey writes.
Yet the road to a major war is usually a long one. The Bush administration spent months laying the groundwork, both publicly and privately, for the war in Iraq. At this point, the president has demonstrated a pattern of comments that indicate a preference for a military response to North Korea, although it’s not clear that his preference will prevail. That pattern is enough that Trump’s feuds with Tillerson and Corker deserve to be seen not merely as wacky, somewhat disconcerting antics, but as part of a potential move toward a war—whether that’s World War III or not.


As the Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein reels from a New York Times exposé that describes years of abusive behavior towards women, many right-leaning pundits are seizing the opportunity to discuss predatory male behavior in the liberal tribe, much as lefty pundits used Bill O’Reilly’s downfall to discuss bad actors on the right.
Many of these efforts offer worthwhile insights. And two contributions are most illuminating when juxtaposed with one another. Their authors approach the subject with some of the same assumptions. Both are appropriately scathing toward awful behavior by prominent Democrats. Yet the first effort represents the best of what American conservatism has to offer the country. And the second reveals odious moral rot.  
Comparing them is hugely instructive.
What Principled Conservatism Looks Like
In “The Pigs of Liberalism,” Ross Douthat, the principled social conservative, opines that progressive industries may finally be feminist enough to “put their old goats out to pasture,” but that there is a less optimistic way of viewing the present scandal.
It might just show...
...that a certain kind of powerful liberal creep only gets his comeuppance when he’s weakened or old or in the grave. The awfulness of Ted Kennedy, at Chappaquiddick and after hours in D.C., can be acknowledged only now that he’s no longer a liberal lion in the Senate. The possibility that Bill Clinton might be not just an adulterer but a rapist can be entertained now that he’s no longer protecting abortion from the White House.
He adds, “it would be nice to say that cultural conservatism offers an alternative, one that welcomes female advancement while retaining useful ideas about sexual difference and restraint,” but concedes that while he “might have argued as much once,” today’s right, “in the age of Donald Trump and Bill O’Reilly, ‘pro-life’ hypocrites in Congress and the alt-right online cesspool... is its own sort of cautionary tale.” Still, he offers, several conservative ideas might help liberals “to restrain the ogres in their midst.” The column concludes with three specific suggestions:
First: Some modest limits on how men and women interact professionally are useful checks on predation. Many liberals were horrified by the revelation that for a time Mike Pence avoided one-on-one meetings with women not his wife. But one can find the Pence rules too sweeping and still recognize that life is easier for women if their male bosses don’t feel entitled to see them anywhere, anytime. It would not usher in the Republic of Gilead if it were understood that inviting your female subordinate to your hotel room, Weinstein-style, crosses a line in a way that a restaurant lunch does not.
Second: Consent alone is not a sufficient guide to ethics. Caddishness and predation can be a continuum. If you cheat on your wife you may be more likely to harass subordinates. Promiscuity can encourage predatory entitlement. Older rules of moral restraint were broader for a reason. If your culture’s code is libertine, don’t be surprised that worse things than libertinism flourish.
Third: You can’t ignore moral character when you make decisions about whom to vote for or work with or support. This was something conservatives used to argue in the Clinton years; under Trump, many have conveniently forgotten it. But it remains true. Yes, sometimes you have to work with a bad person or vote for a bad person or hold a fund-raiser with a bad person for the greater good. But not nearly as often as you think.
Agree or disagree with those suggestions, they are constructive, coherently rooted in conservative insights, and offer plausible if contested courses for bringing about less abuse. They suggest a commentator who has thought carefully about the world, including his own coalition’s failings, and written with an earnest desire to make it better.
What an Utter Lack of Principle or Integrity Looks Like
Like Ross Douthat, the talk-radio host Rush Limbaugh begins his commentary on Harvey Weinstein by situating him alongside prominent Democrats Ted Kennedy and Bill Clinton.
“I’m gonna tell you where all of this really began,” he said. “It all began in 1969 at Chappaquiddick, when Ted Kennedy was allowed to get away with manslaughter at all costs…”
He continued:
And then we move forward to Bill Clinton in the second term of his presidency with the Monica Lewinsky episode. And once again, after the full era of militant feminism and the modern era had become entrenched into our society, the Democrat Party defending Bill Clinton at all costs, led by his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, is what gave us the ongoing behavior of major prominent Democrats up to and including Harvey Weinstein.
Ted Kennedy, you might say, made it all possible. Bill Clinton came along and put an exclamation point behind Ted Kennedy. And now even with Harvey Weinstein, look at what he thinks he has to do to save himself: Come out as an even more strident leftist, promise to take out Wayne LaPierre, promise to take out Trump, endow $5 million worth of charity work for women’s issues and so forth. And it’s that simple to buy off the left.
He added:
...the details of this story and the elements of it as it continues to unfold are once again a gigantic teachable moment. You know what else they are? They’re a giant See, I Told You So. Twenty-five, 30 years of See, I Told You So. But I’m telling you, folks, do not discount this. The Democrat Party and the media going out of its way at all costs to defend Bill Clinton sends a signal to every other Democrat heavyweight predator. It sent a signal to virtually every powerful individual on the left that they were not going to be held to account. That excuses would be made and tolerances would be expanded if they remained devoted to the cause or causes. Now, the Harvey Weinstein situation, look at what everybody is saying about how everybody knew. Everybody knew for all these years…
...I mean, he was a thug, he was a pig, he was powerful, he was a bully, and everybody was afraid of him and was sucking up to him and did everything they could to try to make sure Harvey never got mad at them. But all that time people were seething that he was getting away with it, and nobody had the guts to come out and say it.
I am not here to analyze or adjudicate whether or not the shameful passes that many Democrats gave Ted Kennedy and Bill Clinton did or did not influence Harvey Weinstein.
I’m observing the way Rush Limbaugh believes the world works: he believes that when a political faction allies with “a thug,” “a pig,” and “a bully,” that when that faction excuses years of abusive behavior toward women because it is politically convenient, or because no one has the guts to challenge a very powerful man, that faction is sending a signal that directly leads to more women being abused in the future.
What I find morally odious is believing the world works that way … and nevertheless being an enthusiastic, prominent supporter and defender of Roger Ailes and Donald Trump, two of the biggest male chauvinist pigs and serial bullies in American life.
Gabriel Sherman reported at length on how Ailes treated his female employees––and Ailes was taken down by Fox News staffers, not any cadre of conspiring liberals.
As for Trump, Limbaugh appeared to recognize that he had talked his way into a corner.  
“Trump hasn’t done diddly-squat compared to Harvey Weinstein. Trump is nowhere near Harvey Weinstein’s league,” Limbaugh said. “There’s a big difference here. Donald Trump talked. Donald Trump talked the talk with some host at NBC coming out of a trailer—and interestingly, Trump was talking about what celebrities like Weinstein could get away with simply because they’re celebrities. But Trump? There’s no record of Trump doing any of this. Trump can’t hold a candle to Weinstein in this regard. Weinstein walked the walk. All Trump was doing was talking about the very kind of behavior that is permitted when celebrities are involved.”
That is mendacious nonsense.
The infamous Access Hollywood tape, where Trump bragged that when you’re a celebrity you can do anything you want to women without even asking, even grabbing their genitals, isn’t the sum total of allegations comparable to those Weinstein faces. In fact, lots of women have accused Trump of sexual misconduct on the record.
New York has summarized many of the allegations.
For example:
So to summarize: Trump was caught on tape bragging that he gets away with groping women without their consent because he’s famous; a long list of women say, on the record, that Trump manhandled them in much the way he bragged about doing; Rush Limbaugh summarizes this as, “All Trump was doing was talking.”
Limbaugh embodies that which he hates.
He has given cover to Ailes and Trump in just the same way that many gave cover to Weinstein and Clinton, not because he finds two sets of female accusers not credible and two other sets credible, but because Ailes and Trump belong to his political faction.
And he defends Ailes and Trump, despite condemning those who gave cover to Kennedy and Clinton, even though Trump himself prominently gave public cover to Bill Clinton.
Here’s what Trump said at the time:
Trump said Clinton was a “victim” and critiqued the physical appearances of various women with whom Clinton had been accused of having extramarital relations at different times. “It’s like it's from hell, it's a terrible group of people,” Trump said in an interview with FOX News' Neil Cavuto on Aug. 19, 1998. Asked by Cavuto if Clinton’s image as a “quasi-sex symbol” stood to somehow benefit from the alleged extramarital relations, Trump took issue with the characterization.
“I don't necessarily agree with his victims, his victims are terrible,” Trump said. “He is really a victim himself. But he put himself in that position.”
“The whole group, Paula Jones, Lewinsky, it's just a really unattractive group. I'm not just talking about physical," he said.
“Would it be any different if it were a supermodel crowd?” Cavuto then asked.
“I think at least it would be more pleasant to watch,” Trump replied.
By Limbaugh’s logic, Trump bears partial responsibility for Harvey Weinstein’s victims. Yet Trump is the man that Limbaugh helped to empower, the man that Limbaugh unapologetically praises each week on his radio show. By his own logic, Limbaugh is contributing to the future abuse of young women. Yet he doesn’t possess the strength of character to distance himself from Trump, like so many in his mercenary faction who’ve sullied their souls during Trump’s predatory rise.
Limbaugh has abandoned any pretext of conservative principle, refuses to grapple with the failings of his faction, and offers nothing constructive to a country he harms weekly. Would that conservatives less compromised by moral rot would rise in his stead.


Updated on October 10 at 4:30 p.m. ET
If Senator Bob Corker was hoping his blunt criticism of President Trump would inspire his fellow Republicans to join him in publicly confronting the leader of their party, he would be disappointed. And if the president was hoping that a chorus of GOP legislators would rise to his defense, he, too, should be dismayed.
With their shrugs and with their silence, Republican senators responded to the Trump-Corker feud with a resounding plea: Keep us out of it. Few elected Republicans chose to take sides between the president and the powerful chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee who on Sunday likened Trump’s White House to “an adult day care” and warned that his reckless stewardship was leading the U.S. “on the path to World War III.” By and large, they used the Columbus Day holiday and the start of a weeklong Senate recess to avoid the latest and perhaps most flagrant example of Trump’s deteriorating relationship with the Republican establishment.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
On Monday and Tuesday, I contacted the offices of every Republican senator asking whether the 51 other lawmakers associated themselves with Corker’s criticism of the president, which the Tennessean said reflected the views of “a vast majority” of his colleagues. Just six responded, and only one, Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming, chose to weigh in on the substance of Corker’s charge—that Trump’s “volatility” as president was undermining U.S. foreign policy and even endangering international peace.
“He does not agree with Senator Corker,” Barrasso spokeswoman Bronwyn Lance Chester said in a written statement. “Senator Barrasso has worked closely with President Trump and will continue to be a strong ally in Congress.” Barrasso, a member of the Republican leadership, could face a primary challenge next year from a candidate backed by Trump’s former chief strategist, Steve Bannon.
Aside from Wyoming, every other Republican senator refused to take sides.
“Senator Corker and the president obviously have differences they need to resolve, but Senator Risch has no intention of getting involved in this matter,” said Kaylin Minton, a spokeswoman for Jim Risch of Idaho. Risch is the second-ranking Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee and is all but certain to succeed Corker as its chairman if the GOP retains control of the Senate in 2019. Corker chose to retire rather than run for a third term next year, a decision that’s at the heart of his feud with Trump. A former Trump rival, Senator Ted Cruz, similarly sidestepped the fray at an appearance Tuesday in Texas. “I am not going to get into the personality battles of Washington,” he said, according to a quote passed along by his spokesman.
Senators Rob Portman of Ohio and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee each offered statements of praise for Corker without mentioning Trump. “Bob Corker has been a leader in Congress on issues as diverse as deficit reduction and combatting terrorism, and he is a man of unwavering integrity,” Portman said. “If we’re going to accomplish our economic and national security agenda, we’re going to have to work together, period.”
Alexander, who is Tennessee’s senior senator, said:  “I work with Bob Corker nearly every day. He is a terrific United States senator, and I’m disappointed he’s decided not to seek reelection.”
That was the tack adopted by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, another favorite GOP target of Trump’s ire. At an appearance in Kentucky, McConnell called Corker “a valuable member of the Senate Republican caucus,” the Associated Press reported. He also alluded to a potential pitfall of Trump’s decision to go after Corker—the Tennessean’s seat on the Budget Committee. That panel just approved a budget resolution necessary to accomplish the party’s goal of tax reform, and Corker’s support for both the budget and the eventual tax legislation will be crucial to the GOP’s chances of success in the closely-divided Senate.
The Republican senators keeping quiet included those who have most frequently criticized the president: John McCain and Jeff Flake of Arizona, and Ben Sasse of Nebraska. If Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina had an opinion on Trump’s fight with Corker, he delivered it to the president himself: The two played golf on Monday, and Graham told MSNBC that he urged Trump to back off the feud. “I don’t think it helps any of us to continue this,” he said.
Just about the only Republican to defend Trump on the merits was Vice President Mike Pence, who issued a statement saying the president had achieved “real results on the international stage … while critics engage in empty rhetoric and baseless attacks.”
Corker has been critical of Trump before, telling reporters in August that the president had not yet demonstrated “the stability or some of the competence” required for the job. Then last week he asserted that Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, Defense Secretary James Mattis, and Chief of Staff John Kelly should stay in their posts because they were all that stood in the way of “chaos” in the White House.
It was that comment that apparently set Trump off. The president lit into Corker in a series of tweets over the weekend, saying he did not “have the guts” to run for reelection and asserting that he had “begged” for his endorsement before abandoning his campaign. Corker replied first in a tart tweet that has been retweeted nearly 140,000 times, and then more expansively in an interview with The New York Times. Adopting a common public refrain of Democrats and a private complaint of Republicans, Corker charged that Trump was treating the presidency like his old reality show, “The Apprentice.” “He concerns me,” Corker told the Times. “He would have to concern anyone who cares about our nation.”
The reticence of Republican senators to take sides was notable, but not surprising. Party lawmakers are keenly aware that while they may be rankled by Trump’s pugnacious tweeting and his relish of a fight, the GOP base remains loyal to the president. For the most part, they just want the bickering to stop.
“Cool it,” Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa told both men at an event on Monday, according to the AP. “And I think it would help if the president would be the first to cool it.”
If any statement could unite the increasingly tenuous coalition of Republicans in the Senate, it might be that.


The United States is gripped by two interlocking constitutional crises: one spectacularly visible and noisy; the other unfolding more quietly. Senator Bob Corker’s Sunday remarks to The New York Times brought the quiet crisis into full public view.
The noisy crisis is, of course, the presidency of Donald Trump. The quiet crisis is the response of the national-security system to the noisy crisis.
Mr. Trump poses such an acute risk, the senator said, that a coterie of senior administration officials must protect him from his own instincts. “I know for a fact that every single day at the White House, it’s a situation of trying to contain him,” Mr. Corker said in a telephone interview.
This observation by the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee has been seconded by other insiders. “There are people inside the administration that think it is their job to save America from this president,” then-White House Communications Director Anthony Scaramucci told CNN’s New Day in July. In April, an unnamed senior administration official praised the work of Rex Tillerson, Jim Mattis, and John Kelly, then still secretary of homeland security: “They realize this is a tumultuous White House, and they are serving as a leveling influence over fractious personalities … responsibly protecting the country from enemies both foreign and domestic.” The “domestic enemies” in this formula apparently included much of President Trump’s own senior staff.
Good news: The people containing the commander-in-chief have to a considerable extent succeeded. The United States has not launched a preemptive attack on North Korea, abandoned Estonia to the Russians, canceled NAFTA, or started a trade war with China—each and every one of those outcomes a seemingly live possibility if you heeded Trump’s own words.
Bad news: The national-security services are apparently coping with Donald Trump in ways that circumvent the president’s constitutional role as commander-in-chief. One example spotlights the ways Trump’s orders are shirked by his nominal subordinates. Trump tweeted in July that the “United States Government will not accept or allow Transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military.” The actual policy set forth in executive orders in August will be very different: It leaves discretion to the secretary of defense to determine whether “military readiness” will be assisted or impaired by allowing transgender soldiers to continue their service.
We’ve seen the president issue threats of imminent military action—only to be contradicted by cabinet officers and military staff assuring potential adversaries that the United States will not initiate the use of force that the president had threatened to initiate.
The military and intelligence agencies are learning new habits of disregard for presidential statements and even orders that those agencies deem ignorant or reckless. By and large, those agencies’ judgments are vastly to be preferred to the president’s—but that does not make these habits any less dangerous.
Among other insights, Corker’s Sunday interview forces Americans to confront some tough questions: By what methods is the president being contained? Is he, for example, being denied sensitive information by agencies that remember how he blurted a closely guarded secret to the Russian foreign minister and the location of U.S. nuclear submarines to the president of the Philippines? Are allies and potential adversaries being signaled that presidential statements do not actually represent the policy of the United States government? That was how National-Security Adviser H.R. McMaster dealt with Trump’s refusal to read aloud the endorsement of NATO’s Article 5 in the speech written for Trump to deliver at NATO headquarters in May. “He did not make a decision not to say it."
To what extent does the president remain in the military chain of command? It seems incredible that the military would outright defy a presidential order. But not hearing it? Not understanding it? Not acting on it promptly? Holding back information that might provoke an unwanted presidential reaction? White House insiders told a reporter Monday that Vice President Pence had made a mistake in telling Trump he planned to attend a game featuring a tribute to Indiana football great Peyton Manning on Sunday: It was that casual remark that goaded Trump into ordering Pence to stage his walk-out stunt.* Whether the story is true or not, it reveals the preferred method of managing a distrusted president: Deny him information that could have unwanted effects.
Thank you and congratulations to those officials struggling to protect American security, the Western alliance, and world peace against Donald Trump. But the constitutional order is becoming the casualty of these struggles. The Constitution provides a way to remedy an unfit presidency: the removal process under the 25th amendment. Regencies and palace coups are not constitutional. I dare say many readers would prefer a Mattis presidency to a Trump presidency. But to stealthily endow Secretary Mattis with the powers of the presidency as a work-around of Trump’s abuse of them? That’s a crisis, too, and one sinister for the future. What if Trump is succeeded by a Bernie Sanders-type whom the military and intelligence agencies distrust as much as they distrust Trump: Will they continue the habits they acquired in the Trump years?
Bob Corker’s “containment” remark both reassures and warns: The “lesser evil” response to Trump’s challenge to the constitutional order—isolate and ignore him—remains a significant hazard in itself.
* This article originally stated that the game Vice President Pence attended was Peyton Manning's last. We regret the error.


Kakistocracy is a term that was first used in the 17th century; derived from a Greek word, it means, literally, government by the worst and most unscrupulous people among us. More broadly, it can mean the most inept and cringeworthy kind of government. The term fell into disuse over the past century or more, and most highly informed people have never heard it before (but to kids familiar with the word “kaka” it might resonate).
As I wrote my new book with E.J. Dionne and Tom Mann, One Nation Under Trump, I kept returning to the term. Kakistocracy is back, and we are experiencing it firsthand in America. The unscrupulous element has come into sharp focus in recent weeks as a string of Trump Cabinet members and White House staffers have been caught spending staggering sums of taxpayer dollars to charter jets, at times to go small distances where cheap commercial transportation was readily available, at times to conveniently visit home areas or have lunch with family members. While Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price was forced to resign after his serial abuse, others—including Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, and Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway, remain in place.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
With Pruitt and Price, the problems were evident before they were confirmed. Pruitt told the Senate he had done no official business on a personal email account while serving as Oklahoma attorney general. When a judge ordered Pruitt’s emails to be made public, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell rushed through his confirmation before they appeared—and, too late, they showed he had misled the Senate. Tom Price had engaged in a string of stock transactions while in Congress that led to accusations of manipulation and insider trading; McConnell and his Republican Senate colleagues brushed the evidence aside. Similarly, Attorney General Jeff Sessions’s misleading claims in his confirmation hearing about his own relationships with Russians during the campaign met with no pushback or interest from Republicans on the Judiciary Committee.
The Constitution prohibits anything of value other than a salary going to a president from the federal government or the states. (Trump had also been pushing the District of Columbia for more favorable property taxes.) The failure of GSA top officials to act on Trump’s apparent violation is under investigation by the agency’s inspector general. Foreign-government entities falling over themselves to stay in the hotel and schedule meetings and events there at premium prices may have violated the Foreign Emoluments Clause, just one of a string of in-your-face elements of a president enriching himself via his office. Doubling the initiation fee at Mar-A-Lago to $250,000, and advertising that those putting on weddings there or at his Bedminster, New Jersey, country club might get a photo-op with the president of the United States, are equally outrageous examples.
News that the president’s daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared Kushner had used a private server and private email accounts for official business—multiplying to several accounts, then hurriedly transferred to the Trump business server after the revelations—showed a remarkable indifference to the rules; Kushner’s repeated failure to disclose his foreign contacts on security-clearance forms represented clear violations that underlined that cavalier attitude. And the efforts of Ivanka’s business and the Kushner family business to leverage their White House status parallel the ethical violations of the president. A competent and honest Congress would be all over these issues, with hearings and efforts to clean up the system. The number of hearings on any of these issues of absence of ethics, abuse of power, and misuse of taxpayer money: zero.
Awful as the grifterish mentality and behavior may be, worse is the other part of kakistocracy—inept, corrupt, and disruptive governance. Impulsive, stream-of-consciousness communications from the president by tweet are one thing. Examples like a budget that aims to knock out our weather satellites and cut our ability to respond to a pandemic, along with the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) removing from its website information about the disastrous conditions in Puerto Rico while pumping up the good news, are another.
The misguided and reckless travel bans instituted at the beginning of the administration were a harbinger of indifference to norms and practices of government previously embraced by both parties. The moves undertaken now by Trump and his aides to sabotage Obamacare, after the embarrassing failures to enact a bill to repeal and replace it, are sadistic and outrageous. They include cutting off the funding to notify people about the period for enrollment on the health exchanges, and shortening the time to enroll, along with most recently ordering the head of Medicare and Medicaid Services to deny a critical waiver to Iowa which will result in many losing insurance and skyrocketing premiums for others.
More troublesome still is the danger to world stability reflected in the embarrassing contretemps-triangle involving Secretary of State Tillerson, Secretary of Defense Mattis, and Trump. Within the last week, Trump undercut Tillerson via tweet, taking diplomatic talks with North Korea off the table while his secretary of state was in China (after undercutting our vital ally South Korea by attempting to blow up our joint free-trade agreement). Then NBC reported that Tillerson had privately called the president a “moron.” Mattis then told the Senate that America should continue to certify the Iran-nuclear deal, as it is in our national-security interest—after which the president threatened to decertify the deal, undercutting the credibility of his defense secretary.* While we have seen many instances in the past of presidents and Cabinet members at odds—remember Gerald Ford and James Schlesinger; Ronald Reagan and Alexander Haig—we have had nothing like these public disputes and contradictory signals involving the most sensitive trouble spots on earth.
Donald Trump campaigned by promising to run government like a business. Unfortunately, that business is Trump University. There are 602 key policy positions in the executive requiring Senate confirmation. Almost nine months into the Trump presidency, only 142—less than a quarter—have been filled, and nearly half, 289, have not even had a nominee chosen. The record here is starkly worse than under the previous four presidents, from George H. W. Bush through Obama. At the State Department, we have a secretary and two deputy secretaries in place—but only two of the nearly 30 critical undersecretaries or assistant secretaries, with none even nominated for the vast majority of the positions. A slew of key ambassadorships remain vacant, including sensitive spots like South Korea, Congo, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Turkey and Venezuela—none of which even have a nominee! Rumors have circulated that Tillerson has proposed many experienced Bush hands for some of these posts, which have been blocked by a White House personnel office that screens for early support for Trump, and vetoes those who offered any criticism during the campaign—which eliminates the vast majority of those with any experience in foreign affairs.
John Kelly left his position at Homeland Security for the White House in July; the vacancy at the top of that critical department remains, with no nominee on the horizon. There are still no nominees for undersecretary for national protection, undersecretary for science and technology, or assistant secretaries for policy or immigration. The same pattern holds true for almost every other cabinet department or key agency. At FEMA, there is a director, but the nominee for deputy director was forced to withdraw after a series of stories about his crony behavior in his previous role at FEMA in the Bush administration. Speaking of science, the Trump nominee for chief scientist at the Department of Agriculture, Sam Clovis, is a right-wing talk radio host whose Ph.D. is in public administration.
To be sure, Trump himself suggested that he did not need to fill many of these 602 posts, because there are “hundreds and hundreds of unnecessary jobs.” It is true that we have had, as scholar Paul Light has put it, a “thickening of government,” with multiple layers of management added over the years. Substituting political appointments with career senior managers taking on their responsibilities would make sense.
But at the same time that there are hundreds of key vacancies in presidential appointees, the administration is signaling deep distrust in the bureaucracy and waging war on the Senior Executive Service. Tillerson has moved actively to hollow out the diplomatic corps, purging the department of many distinguished experts in regions and in management. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke is under investigation by the inspector general for trying to move a series of senior managers out of their posts and home areas without following the civil-service rules.
The New York Times reported that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has filled his schedule almost exclusively with meetings and fancy dinners with coal-mining and chemical companies and others EPA regulates—often followed by moves to deregulate them—while scheduling almost no meetings with environmental groups. Pruitt has also spent $25,000 in taxpayer money to put a soundproof phone booth in his office, raising red flags about why this was necessary.
The kakistocracy applies as well to Congress. I have already outlined some of the failures of the confirmation process for Cabinet officers and the abysmal lack of oversight of kleptocratic behavior. Add to those the eleventh hour backdoor effort in the House in January to eviscerate its independent Office of Congressional Ethics and the outrageous attempts by House Intelligence Committee Chair Devin Nunes, unchecked by Speaker Paul Ryan, to collude with the Trump White House to mislead about allegations of its own ties to Russian officials during and after the 2016 campaign. Nunes was forced to recuse himself from the Russia investigation—but has continued to try to use his office to influence the process.
Then there is the ineptitude of the policy process in Congress. Despite Speaker Ryan’s boast that this could be the most productive presidency and Congress in our lifetime, the record of Congress in its first nine months is abysmal. Not one of the big goals set by the president or majority congressional leaders—health repeal and replace, infrastructure, a wall on the border with Mexico, major tax reform—has been achieved. While the number of bills enacted is about average for new presidents, the number of significant bills is extremely low, especially compared to George W. Bush and Barack Obama. Except for a series of narrow measures to roll back Obama regulations and a bill to increase sanctions on Russia, most of the enactments are minor.
Moreover, Republican leaders, especially Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, have blown up most of the remaining norms about how laws are developed, debated, and enacted. The process used to attempt the single most significant congressional promise, repealing and replacing Obamacare, was an embarrassing jumble of ineptitude, casuistry, irregularity, and abnormality. After eight years of promises to offer an alternative to the Affordable Care Act, Republicans in Congress only slapped together careless and unworkable plans after they took the White House and both houses of Congress. In the Senate, the plan was crafted behind closed doors by a small group of older, white male senators without the involvement of experts from the two relevant committees, Health and Finance, and with no input from the most savvy health experts, conservative or otherwise, or any of the stakeholders in the health-policy world. The plan, and its even more embarrassing alternative crafted by Senators Cassidy and Graham after the first one flamed out, were opposed by every major health organization and provider group, and were ripped by Senator John McCain for violating every principle of deliberation and debate. The sponsors lied repeatedly to their colleagues and to journalists and others about what the bills did and did not do, and made ham-handed efforts to throw money or exemptions at individual senators in Maine and Alaska to induce their votes.
The failure to pass any health measure, or to send Trump any significant bills he can use to have lavish Rose Garden victory ceremonies to show how much he is winning, has led to another round of presidential insults aimed at his own party leaders McConnell and Ryan, and at apostates like John McCain and Jeff Flake. The latest is a round of ridiculous and counterproductive attacks by Trump on Senate Foreign Relations Chair Bob Corker, who responded with his own broadsides at an unstable president lacking adult supervision. Many observers are now writing and talking about a Republican civil war, with the latest battle being the Senate primary in Alabama that led to the nomination of radical Roy Moore.
“Can’t anybody here play this game?” was Casey Stengel’s famous lament about his inept 1962 New York Mets. The same lament could apply to the Trump administration and its majority team in Congress—but the problem is deeper and worse when ineptitude joins with venality and recklessness, and when the stakes are far more than baseball pennants.
* This article originally stated that President Trump decertified the Iran deal. We regret the error.


On Sunday, Vice President Mike Pence made a big show of leaving an NFL game early. He declared himself upset that some players knelt during the singing of “The Star Spangled Banner.” “I will not dignify any event that disrespects our soldiers, our flag, or our national anthem,” he declared, as if attacking those things was the intent of the athletes.
The NFL players knelt in protest because they believe that African Americans are being denied their self-evident rights to life and liberty by a prejudiced criminal-justice system.
“This is not about the military, this is not about the flag, this is not about the anthem,” 49ers Safety Eric Reid later told reporters. “My mother served in the armed forces. Three of my uncles served … I have the utmost respect for the military, for the anthem, for the flag … This is about systemic oppression that has been rampant in this country … I will keep doing what I feel is necessary, to use the platform that I have, to make changes. It’s really disheartening when everything you were raised on, everything I was raised on, was to be the best person I can be, to help people who need help, and the vice president of the United States is trying to confuse the message that we’re trying to put out there. I don’t know what to say about it.”
Pence is not compelled to agree with how players protest. But by fleeing the entire NFL game, he adopted the tactics of a childish, petulant snowflake who reacts to speech he dislikes by misrepresenting it, expressing umbrage, and retreating to a “safe space.”
The major difference?
When an immature teenager makes a show of fleeing from expression that he regards as politically incorrect, he’s typically evading ideas he ought to confront on his own dime. Whereas Pence spent taxpayer money to get to that NFL game. Lots of it.
He began his travels in Las Vegas, Nevada, marking the carnage of the recent massacre there on Saturday. And he ended up in California, where he’ll headline a GOP-fundraising luncheon at a fancy country club in Newport Beach on Monday. But rather than go from one to the other—a long drive or a very short, cheap flight—he first flew all the way cross-country to an Indianapolis Colts home game.
The flight to Indianapolis alone cost an estimated $100,000. The total price tag will also include ground transportation and security. It’s more than most Americans earn in a year.
An aide to the VP told CNN that the trip to Indianapolis “was planned for weeks because former Colts quarterback Peyton Manning was being honored.” Spending six figures to send an official to honor a multimillionaire athlete epitomizes the swamp. That is the best way that Pence can find to spend our money and his time? And that’s assuming the trip really was meant to honor a player. According to President Trump, the two men discussed the possibility of players protesting during the national anthem and planned on Pence leaving if that happened. In other words, the president and the vice-president made a premeditated plan to spend six figures traveling to an event knowing it was very likely Pence would not even attend.
After the fact, Pence’s office tried to defend the indefensible by insisting that “if the  vice president did not go to Indiana for the Colts game, he would have flown back to D.C. for the evening—which means flying directly over Indiana. Instead, he made a shorter trip to Indiana for a game that was on his schedule for several weeks.”
But in that hypothetical scenario, he would have wasted his time, and taxpayer money, flying all the way from Las Vegas to Washington, D.C., for the night, only to turn around and travel to Newport Beach, California, the next day. That would’ve warranted criticism, as well, had it happened. Instead, his wasteful trip to Indianapolis happened—flagrant squandering of time and money on what turned out to be a political stunt.


In Chronicle of a Death Foretold, a 1981 novel by Nobel laureate Gabriel García Márquez, twin brothers in a port village stalk and murder a neighbor for the supposed crime of deflowering their sister. García Marquez’s anonymous narrator, tracing the roots of the crime years later, finds that almost everyone in the nameless town knew that Pablo and Pedro Vicario were planning to murder Santiago Nasar; no one, however, warned the victim or stopped the killers.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
Townspeople had different reasons. Some thought the killers were bluffing, or that they changed their minds after a scolding from the mayor. Still others meant to pass on a warning but, distracted by a wedding feast and a visit from the local bishop, simply forgot. A few did not bother because they concluded that the murder was inevitable, and thus the victim was in effect dead already.
The authorities later sent in a magistrate to investigate—but “at the conclusion of his excessive diligence,” the magistrate had not “found a single clue, not even the most improbable, that Santiago Nasar had been the cause of the wrong.”
Even so, “[t]he lawyer stood by the thesis of homicide in legitimate defense of honor, which was upheld by the court in good faith, and the twins declared at the end of the trial that they would have done it again a thousand times over for the same reason.”
This term at the U.S. Supreme Court seems likely to end with an assault foretold—on America’s public-employee unions. It will come in a case called Janus v. American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, Council 31, which was granted review on September 28. Janus challenges—for the third time in five years—the financial stability of public employee unions. By coincidence, these unions are an important pillar of the Democratic Party.
This is a constitutional dispute conjured more or less out of thin air over the past five years by Justice Samuel Alito.
Janus will be the third attempt since 2012 to gut the unions by court order. Formally it poses a First Amendment question; but under the surface, its central issue is whether public-employee unions are helpful labor organizations or baneful big-government lobbies.
That factual question, as we will see below, will be resolved without any factual record whatsoever.  The challengers don’t think facts are relevant—or, perhaps, they regard as relevant only one fact: they think there finally are five votes to attain this long-sought political goal.
The assault foretold began in 2012, with a fairly ordinary labor-law dispute entitled Knox v. Service Employees International Union. To understand Knox and what followed, consider a few details about labor law. Under the National Labor Relations Act, state governments have leeway to structure their relations with their own employees. Some states do not allow their employees to bargain collectively at all; others permit employees to form unions and negotiate, but permit non-members to opt out of the unions altogether; and some—roughly half—permit the employees in a given unit to designate a union as their “exclusive representative,” with authority to negotiate for all the unit’s workers in areas like wages, benefits, working conditions, and on-the-job grievances.
Even in “exclusive representative” states, however, workers can’t be required to join a union. That requirement, the courts have long held, would infringe their First Amendment right of association. However, non-member workers receive the benefits of the union in matters like wages; and thus, in about half of the states, they are required to pay an “agency fee” to the union for those services. This fee is calculated based on a member’s union dues, minus the costs of the union’s “non-chargeable” expenses—overtly ideological activities like political campaigning, legislative lobbying, and litigation for union causes.
In a 1977 case called Abood v. Detroit Board of Education, dissenting Detroit teachers argued that paying an “agency fee” to a public employee union violated their First Amendment free-speech rights, because the funds were used to negotiate with government—an activity that, they said, will always have a political aspect, even when only focused on workplace issues. (Public-employee salaries and pensions, for example, impact overall budget levels; tenure and security rules influence education policy, etc.) Thus, they argued, paying the fees amounted to “compelled speech.”
The Abood court rejected that claim, however. “Such interference [with First Amendment rights] as exists,” it said, “is constitutionally justified by the legislative assessment of the important contribution of the union shop to the system of labor relations established by Congress.” That is, the court reasoned, legislators weren’t wrong to think that a union designated by a majority would make employer-workforce relations smoother. If not required to pay for “chargeable” expenses, the court reasoned, non-members would be “free riders,” profiting from the union’s efforts but refusing to pay for them. In the long run, free-ridership would lead workers to refuse to join the union; this would sap the vitality of the union and thus spoil the state legislature’s chosen scheme for achieving “labor peace.”
Over the next three decades, the court heard challenges to specific public-union expenses, finding some “chargeable” and some not. But states were left to decide for themselves whether to allow public unions and if so how. The question was debated widely, and settled the old-fashioned way: by politics, in front of state legislatures. Some states expanded employee rights, others contracted them. Some states banned collective bargaining altogether; others allowed some employees to form unions and banned organizing by others; some allowed employees to strike under certain conditions, others banned strikes altogether.
Then came the Republican electoral tide of 2010. As University of Toledo law professor Joseph Slater writes, “In 2011, an unprecedented number of states enacted laws limiting or eliminating public sector bargaining rights. Such moves took place in Wisconsin, Ohio, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Oklahoma, and Tennessee.”
Anti-union forces seemed to be winning the political battle. It was at precisely this point, however—when the public was deeply involved in wrestling with its complexities—that Alito first suggested that the court decide the issue on its own. In the 5-4 majority opinion in Knox, Alito let the world know that he and his fellow conservatives would like to get rid of “fair share” fees altogether. The Abood court was wrong, Alito wrote: “free-rider arguments ... are generally insufficient to overcome First Amendment objections.”
The message was the judicial equivalent of Henry II’s “will no one rid me of this meddlesome priest?” By 2014, a new case, Harris v. Quinn, materialized. Harris was a challenge to agency fees paid by Illinois home-health aides working in a state-federal program designed to keep disabled people in their homes. Though the union had been authorized by overwhelming vote of the legislature,  and approved by a majority of the workers, Alito said at oral argument that he, for one, smelled not just a rat but a Democrat: “Governor Blagojevich got a huge campaign contribution from the union and virtually, as soon as he got into office, he took out his pen and signed an executive order that had the effect of putting, what was it, $3.6 million into the union coffers?”
In June 2014, the court ruled against the union scheme in Harris. The home health aides were not “full-fledged public employees,” the 5-4 majority said. Alito wrote that opinion too. For people who work in the home, he said, “labor peace” is not important. He cited a provision of the NLRA that bars unions for those in “domestic service.” (He didn’t mention that the provision was added by Jim Crow-era Southern lawmakers who wanted no federal meddling with their black butlers, cooks, and maids.)
The court had not yet gutted union rights for “full-fledged” public workers, however. The apparent chance to do so came in the 2015 term, with a case called Friedrichs v. California Teachers Association. California defended its statute before the court, and 21 other states and the District of Columbia filed a brief supporting the union. At oral argument, however, Republican lawyer Michael Carvin, representing the objectors, assured the court that these states didn’t really want to win the case: “They don't care about how robust or effective this union is,” he said with a straight face. “Indeed, if anything, they don't want them to be effective, because nobody wants a strong bargaining partner that's going to drive up public expenditures.”
Carvin could peddle this eyewash because, at his clients’ insistence, there had been no trial, and there was thus no evidence about the actual benefits, or lack of benefits, from the “fair share” scheme. The anti-union forces had told the courts below to hurry up and rule against them, so they could get to the Supreme Court and win. Friedrichs was to real litigation roughly what the stabbing of Caesar was to parliamentary procedure.
Before the court could announce its decision, however, Justice Antonin Scalia died. In March 2016, the court announced that the surviving justices had tied 4-4, meaning that the four remaining conservatives were probably ready to take down unions even for  “full-fledged” public employees. The tie, however, meant that the union victory in the Ninth Circuit was affirmed. Public employee unions seemed to have dodged their death foretold.
Then Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell stepped forward to claim Scalia’s seat as property of the Republican Party. In the spring of 2017, Neil Gorsuch took  the seat his party had withheld from President Barack Obama’s nominee, Merrick Garland. Not long after he took his seat, another “case” materialized, again without a record or indeed a pretense of anything new other than a change in the court’s personnel.
The court has not yet scheduled oral argument. If only García Márquez were living, perhaps he would be able to do justice to the solemn, farcical tone we can expect.
“Fatality makes us invisible,” García Márquez’s nameless lawyer notes. This spring is likely to see a killing that will happen in plain sight, with the long-sharpened knives demurely hidden under the black robes of the law.


Would you say that people should be allowed to express unpopular opinions in public, even those that are deeply offensive to other people; or that government should prevent people from engaging in hate speech against certain groups in public?
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
That choice kicked off a lengthy survey on free speech and tolerance that will be released later this month by The Cato Institute, which collaborated with YouGov, the market research firm, to collect responses. The final data set was drawn from answers to scores of questions provided by 2,300 people. I got an early look at the survey this month when the institute invited me to Washington, D.C., for a panel discussion on the results. (Cato paid my travel expenses as part of my appearance on the panel. My decision to write about the survey’s findings was not part of our agreement.)
To see what the public believes is always disorienting, for it is always rife with contradictions; but many of the results are of interest to anyone invested in civic life in America.
For starters, 59 percent of Americans say people should be able to express even deeply offensive views, while 40 percent said government should prevent people from engaging in hate speech, with partisan and racial divides characterizing the results.
An overwhelming majority of Americans believe that “it would be hard to ban hate speech because people can’t agree what speech is hateful,” including 78 percent of Democrats, 77 percent of Latinos, and 59 percent of African Americans. And the notion that “freedom of speech ensures the truth will ultimately win out” was shared by 70 percent of Latinos, 68 percent of African Americans, and 63 percent of Democrats.
Yet a majority of Americans and a supermajority of African Americans believe that “society can prohibit hate speech and still protect free speech.” (To complicate matters, a quarter of Americans, 38 percent of African Americans, and 45 percent of Latinos erroneously believe it is already illegal to make a racist statement in public.)
Who should get protection against hate speech? Forty-six percent would support a law making it illegal to say offensive things about African Americans; there is less support for banning insults against other groups (41 percent for Jews, 40 percent for immigrants and military-service members, 39 percent for Hispanics, 37 percent for Muslims, 36 percent for gays, lesbians, and transgender people, 35 percent for Christians).
Forty-seven percent of Latinos, 41 percent of African Americans, and 26 percent of whites would favor a law making it illegal to say offensive things about white people in public.
Should there be a law making it illegal to say offensive or disrespectful things in public about the police? Fifty-one percent of Latinos say yes. So do 40 percent of African Americans, 38 percent of Democrats, and 36 percent of both independents and Republicans.
Fifty-one percent of Democrats would favor a law “requiring people to refer to a transgender person by their preferred gender pronouns and not according to their biological sex.” Majorities of African Americans, Latinos, whites, and Republicans disagreed.
Republicans were most intolerant of speech and most likely to favor authoritarian laws to punish it on the subject of burning or desecrating the American flag: Seventy-two percent of Republicans believe that should be illegal (along with 46 percent of Democrats). Most shocking to me, 53 percent of Republicans and 49 percent of Latinos favor “stripping a person of their U.S. citizenship if they burn the American flag.” To protect the flag at the expense of the U.S. Constitution rather misses the point.
What Ought to Get People Fired?
On the whole, Americans were averse to firing people from their jobs for holding an offensive belief. Should a business executive be fired if he believes African Americans are genetically inferior? Fifty-three percent of Americans, and 51 percent of African Americans, said no. And that was the belief most likely to be seen as termination-worthy (except among Republicans: More Republicans were inclined to fire an NFL player who refused to stand for the national anthem than a racist executive).
Large majorities oppose firing an executive who believes that transgender people have a mental disorder, or that homosexuality is a sin, or that all white people are racist, or that men are better at math than women; 74 percent oppose firing an executive who believes, pace James Damore, the fired Google engineer, that psychological differences help to explain why there are more male than female engineers.
Is it morally acceptable to punch a Nazi?
Sixty-eight percent say no––and contrary to those who argue that opposition to punching Nazis is rooted in white privilege, it turns out that Latinos are most averse to Nazi-punching, with 80 percent calling it unacceptable; African Americans are next, with 73 percent calling it unacceptable; and white people are last, with just 56 percent agreeing. Republicans are slightly more likely to find Nazi-punching acceptable than Democrats, 35 percent to 28 percent. Forty-five percent of independents say it’s acceptable.
Large majorities agree that “a big problem this country has is being politically correct,” including 70 percent of Latinos, 62 percent of African Americans, and 72 percent of whites.
Across partisan and racial divides, large majorities agreed that colleges and universities are not doing enough to teach young Americans about the value of free speech, and not doing enough to ensure students are exposed to a variety of viewpoints––though a small majority believes colleges “have an obligation to protect students from offensive speech and ideas that could create a difficult learning environment.”
When asked, “Suppose the following people were invited to speak at your college, should they be allowed to speak?” respondents who were college students or had college experience answered “no,” various viewpoints should not be allowed, as follows:
There is much more of interest in the survey results, and dozens of conversations the data presented could inform, but for now, I’ll conclude with just one observation from 10,000 feet. An under-appreciated feature of the First Amendment is that even as it assures that almost everyone will hear that which offends them, it spares the country lots of thorny policy fights over speech and expression that would divide an already-polarized country deeply along partisan and racial lines.
At the end of those fights a new order would emerge. It would almost certainly be less stable, as well as more punitive, giving police and prosecutors broad new powers. But there is neither a guarantee nor a likelihood that it would be a more just order; and its injustices would almost certainly be borne most heavily by the relatively powerless. The Bill of Rights is a gift that will keep on giving if we can keep it.


Senator Bob Corker, a Republican of Tennessee, deserves credit for saying in public this evening to The New York Times what most prominent Republicans have known and many have said (in careful privacy) over the past two years.
Namely: that Donald Trump is irrational, ill-informed, impulsive, unfit for command, and increasingly a danger to the country and the world. The man who has ultimate authority over the world’s most powerful military, including its nuclear weaponry, is recklessly issuing threats to North Korea and others that set the nation “on the path to World War III,” according to Corker—who, for the record, is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. “I know for a fact that every single day at the White House, it’s a situation of trying to contain him,” he told Jonathan Martin and Mark Landler of the Times.
This situation is not normal. It is not safe. And the group which for now has a monopoly on legislative and investigative power in Washington, Corker’s own Republican Party, has an obligation to the country’s past and its future to do something about it. Talk is better than nothing, but action is what counts.
* * *
I am hardly the best-sourced figure on partisan politics in general and Republican officialdom in particular—and I’ve been away from Washington most of this year. But even I have heard, first-hand, from Republican senators, representatives, and other dignitaries that they view Donald Trump as a menace in his current role. It’s not (just) that they disagree with some of what he does. It’s that they consider him intellectually unaware of the cliffs toward which he is steering the country, and temperamentally unable to exercise anything like mature judgment. In these and other ways, including his personal and financial ethics, they know that he is outside the range of suitability to hold this job.
Should I have outed the people who said these things—or should the countless other press people who have heard similar views? No: Reporters do have to keep confidences, and I conveyed the substance of this case as best I could during the Trump Time Capsule series through the election. Moreover, it’s not clear that “concerns” like these would have changed anyone’s mind. During the campaign, most of Trump’s fallen rivals blasted him in exceptional terms—before truckling to support him against Hillary Clinton. One of the most remarkable illustrations was Senator Ted Cruz’s extended denunciation of Trump as a “pathological liar” just before Trump clinched the nomination. Of course Cruz turned around to support him in the general election and has cast nearly all his  Senate votes (94 percent) in alignment with Trump. Meanwhile, it’s not even the lead news of the week that Trump’s own secretary of state has half-heartedly non-denied Stephanie Ruhle’s report on NBC that he called Trump a “fucking moron.”
Now that Bob Corker, one-time supporter of Trump, has taken the commendable step of going public, what’s next?
* * *
For reporters, there is a logical extension from the opening Corker has given. Get Mitch McConnell, get Paul Ryan, get John Thune and John Barrasso and John Cornyn, get Kevin McCarthy, get every Republican in a position of responsibility to answer: Do you agree with your colleague that Donald Trump is a danger to the country and the world? Who’s right here: Your comrade who is the veteran chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee? Or a president who can’t stop tweet-threatening “Little Rocket Man”? And what about Corker’s claim that the White House is a daily battleground to keep the incumbent under control? Are you going to call one of your own a liar? Or is he right about Trump?
They won’t answer. Knowing how not to answer comes as second nature. More smoothly than Rex Tillerson, they will decline to get into the “silly stuff.” But they should be put on the spot and made to take a stand. Especially the ones who will either face the voters soon—or who are deciding, as Corker did recently, whether that’s even worth it.
(To be clear: every reporter already knows these are the questions to ask, and overall the resilience of the press is one of the heartening aspects of this disheartening era.  I’m just spelling out what to look for as day breaks and senators get within reporters’ range.)
For congressional Republicans, this is your moment in history’s eye. One of your colleagues, who has chosen not to run for office again, and who also was the object of one of Trump’s intemperate attacks this morning, has decided that he might as well tell the truth. It turns out that this is often the right way to go! As the (slightly altered) line from Mark Twain put it, by telling the truth you will gratify some people and astonish the rest. Perhaps Corker’s motivations are not the purest or most glorious. He was nice to Trump last year, when Corker was in the mentioning-cloud as a possible secretary of state, and he was part of the “respectable” Republicans who disastrous enabled Trump. Corker’s retorts today followed personal attacks from Trump. Still, he’s doing more than his colleagues have.  And Corker has moved toward a better place for himself in the annals of Senate history than he would have had only 24 hours ago.
This most definitely should not be the last step for Corker. If he believes what he says, then as the chairman of the relevant committee in the Senate he has important tools to use. He can issue subpoenas and summon executive branch witnesses as soon as he can get his colleagues back in town. He can draft legislation about the procedure, the grounds, and the justifications before the U.S. commits troops to war. He could urge his colleagues toward the next step through their stages-of-tragedy relationship with Trump. Stage one was carping and dismissal during the first half of 2016, when he was an entertaining long-shot. Stage two was Vichy-regime acquiescence to him during the campaign. Stage three was “support” early this year, toward the goal of the Gorsuch confirmation and the hope of a tax-cut bill. Now we see the inklings of stage four, with the dawning awareness of what Corker spelled out: that they have empowered something genuinely dangerous. It’s time for Corker to act on that knowledge, and his colleagues too.
* * *
As it happens, there’s a convenient precedent for Corker to apply. Just over 50 years ago, his predecessor as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee was another man from the middle south: J. William Fulbright, of Arkansas. As Ken Burns and Lynn Novick portray in their riveting new documentary series on the Vietnam war, in 1966 Fulbright decided to use his power as committee chairman  to convene a high-level, merciless series of hearings on whether his fellow Democrat in the White House, Lyndon Johnson, was making a disastrous error with his deepening commitment to Vietnam. The Senate’s history of the episode recounts:
Attempting to forestall a buildup of American forces, Fulbright launched a high-profile series of widely televised public "educational" hearings in February 1966. [The] testimony prompted an angry President Johnson to order FBI director J. Edgar Hoover to investigate whether Fulbright was "either a communist agent or a dupe of the communists.”
Conducted in the Senate Caucus Room, the hearings reached their most dramatic phase when Secretary [of State, Dean] Rusk and General Maxwell Taylor arrived to lay out the administration's case. Fulbright shifted from his earlier role as a benign questioner of supportive witnesses to a grim prosecutor, his dark glasses set resolutely against the glare of television lights.
The February hearings did not immediately erode Senate support for Johnson's war policies. They did, however, begin a significant shift in public opinion.
J. William Fulbright had his share of failings, notably alignment with the Old South segregationist forces in the Senate. He was part of the filibuster against Lyndon Johnson’s Civil Rights Act of 1964. Fulbright looks much worse in history’s eyes for that benighted position, while Johnson’s proudest achievements were passage of that bill and then the Voting Rights Act the following year.
But Fulbright was on the right side of history in doing everything he could to change a course of disastrous error set by his own party’s president. He is rightly honored for his foresight, toughness, and courage in taking that stand. And he had at his disposal exactly the tools that Bob Corker will have through the 15 months left in his term: chairmanship of one of the Senate’s most important committees.
Chairman Corker, you’ve seen pictures of Chairman Fulbright countless times in the Capitol and Foreign Relations Committee rooms. You know how he is remembered for what he did 50 years ago. He didn’t manage to avert that era’s war. Maybe you can be remembered for doing better to head off this era’s catastrophe.


On Sunday night, the White House released a list of immigration reforms that it would demand in exchange for a deal to protect young undocumented immigrants, who were brought to the U.S. as children. The proposal includes cuts to legal immigration, and cracking down on sanctuary cities, and—right at the top of the list—“completing construction of a wall along the southern border of the United States.” It’s a list of proposals Democrats have already indicated they’re unwilling to accept, raising questions about the future of the deal they struck with Trump last month to extend DACA.
During a call with reporters, a senior administration official also said the administration is “not interested in granting citizenship” in a DACA deal.
The administration’s asks are the culmination of Trump’s campaign pledges to crack down on immigration—and a response to simmering frustrations among advocates of reduced immigration. Indeed, the plan satisfies many of the requests made by immigration hardliners at the start of the Trump presidency, but in doing so, also throws a wrench in attempts to come to an agreement on legislation to provide legal status to young undocumented immigrants.
“DHS frontline personnel identified many of the principles outlined today, including closing loopholes in our ability to enforce immigration laws and eliminating the magnets for illegal immigration. I look forward to working with Congress on legislation that will enact many of these common sense and necessary reforms that will inevitably better secure our nation,” said Department of Homeland Security Acting Secretary Elaine Duke in a statement.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser and a supporter of hardline immigration reform, reportedly began working on a proposal, after Democratic leaders, Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi, announced they had come to an agreement on DACA with Trump. In September, the administration said that it would rescind the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which shielded undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children from deportation and allowed them to work legally in the country, with a six-month delay in response to pressures from state attorneys general. The negotiations thereafter, which included enhanced border security in exchange for DACA legislation, infuriated immigration restrictionists, who see enforcement alone as low-hanging fruit.
“We would absolutely not support anything—nor do we think our activists would support—a DACA amnesty for enforcement,” Chris Chmielenski, the director of content and activism at NumbersUSA, which advocates for reduced immigration, told me.
But if that was a non-starter for immigration hardliners, the new proposal is likely to be the same for lawmakers tasked with finding a permanent legislative solution to DACA within the window provided by the administration.
“When I see these principles, it’s nothing but a menu of options that obviously the president campaigned on but is by no means representative of a fair deal or bargain when comes to the DREAM Act,” said Juan Escalante, the digital campaigns manager at America’s Voice and a DACA recipient, adding that “if there’s going to be a negotiation, it has to be something that doesn’t raise the stakes on the parents of Dreamers and the immigrant community at large.”
The White House’s proposal also appears to include elements of the RAISE Act, which Trump publicly supported in August. The proposal calls for ending “extended-family chain migration by limiting family-based green cards to spouses and minor children” replacing it with what it describes as “a merit-based system that prioritizes skills and economic contributions over family connections.”
The RAISE Act likewise proposes a merit-based immigration system, and targets the family reunification component of the 1965 Immigration Act by giving visa preference only to immediate family, calling for a 50 percent reduction in legal immigration levels over a decade. Democrats have opposed similar measures in the past, as have some Republican lawmakers. Senate Majority Mitch McConnell has stayed mum on the bill—signaling the measure’s divisiveness among his party members. Still, its inclusion in the White House plan at all is notable.
The RAISE Act is reminiscent of recommendations made in the 1990s to overhaul the U.S. immigration system following a significant uptick of immigrants. The commission charged with reviewing U.S. policies recommended cuts to legal immigration, but those proposals were shot down after a veto threat from the Clinton White House. Since then, those proposals have largely been relegated to the sidelines. Trump’s election provided an opportunity to bring them into the mainstream.
Passing the RAISE Act is “non-negotiable,” said Dan Stein, the president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform. Stein, as well as other advocates of reduced immigration, argue that any legislation that would provide legal status to a segment of the undocumented population—in this case, DACA recipients—needs to be balanced with changes to the U.S. immigration system.
Restrictionists point to legislation passed by Ronald Reagan in 1986, which granted citizenship to undocumented immigrants in the United States. The measure led to a significant uptick of the foreign-born population, in part because of ineffective enforcement measures.
Immigration hardliners are concerned about a similar result occurring with the passage of DACA legislation. “There is this broad support to help out the DACA recipients. We have to make sure we don’t make the same mistakes,” Chmielenski told me last week, referring to the aftermath of the 1986 bill.
The onus is on Trump. While Congress is the only entity that can alter the nation’s immigration laws, some immigration restrictionists wonder where Trump will draw the line. “I am pleased to see that they’ve laid out the elements of constructive immigration changes, assuming this is all correct,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, citing a Politico report on the proposal last week. “What we still don’t know is how hard a bargain they’re going to drive. Where’s the red line in negotiating for a DACA fix?”
The list provided by the White House is sure to divide Republicans, many of whom have backed the notion of codifying DACA protections. Some GOP lawmakers conceded that a debate on legal immigration would hinder attempts to pass any measure. “Once we start getting into the legal immigration debate and what the appropriate fixes are there, we’re in danger of getting into the comprehensive immigration reform debate, which leaves us basically empty-handed,” Majority Whip John Cornyn told Huffington Post.
Democrats, on the other hand, have expressed a willingness to accept border security measures, but have pushed back against a border wall. Schumer denounced the list on Twitter shortly after its release Sunday.
The Admin can't be serious about compromise w/ a list anathema to #Dreamers, to the immigrant community & to the vast majority of Americans.
.@NancyPelosi & I told @POTUS we were open to reasonable border security alongside #DreamAct -his list goes so far beyond whats reasonable.


True to his state’s nickname, and his alma mater’s teams, Bob Corker has twice stepped up as a pivotal volunteer in the political career of Donald Trump—first, volunteering his support when few mainstream Republicans were willing to get near Trump, and more recently, after announcing his intention to retire from the Senate, putting himself forward as a leading elected critic of the White House.
After a series of remarks by the Tennessean over the last month, but especially more recently, Trump unloaded Sunday morning.
Senator Bob Corker "begged" me to endorse him for re-election in Tennessee. I said "NO" and he dropped out (said he could not win without...
..my endorsement). He also wanted to be Secretary of State, I said "NO THANKS." He is also largely responsible for the horrendous Iran Deal!
...Hence, I would fully expect Corker to be a negative voice and stand in the way of our great agenda. Didn't have the guts to run!
Corker responded with his most acid comment yet, belittling the president as mentally unfit for his job:
It's a shame the White House has become an adult day care center. Someone obviously missed their shift this morning.
That’s a dramatic and ironic turnaround, because Corker’s word and credibility, as a senator respected for his principles and seriousness, was instrumental in paving the way for mainstream Republican acceptance of the Trump candidacy in spring of 2016.
By that point, Trump had solidified his status as the GOP frontrunner, and no longer looked like a mere novelty candidate. But few major elected Republicans had gotten in line behind him—Governor Chris Christie had been the first, and Senator Jeff Sessions followed at the end of February, but most mainstream GOP figures were still hoping for some way to stop Trump. He wouldn’t effectively lock down the nomination until the May 3 Indiana primary.
On April 27, Trump spoke at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, giving his first major foreign-policy address as a candidate. (The event is now infamous for a reception attended by Trump, Sessions, and then-Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Sessions failed to disclose the encounter, spurring investigations and questions.) As my colleague Russell Berman wrote at the time, Trump “delivered the most scripted, and stilted, speech of his 10-month presidential campaign on Wednesday. He used a teleprompter,” promising “to develop a foreign policy that would both be ‘unpredictable’ and ‘consistent.’” By clearing the low bar for knowledge the candidate had set up to that point, the speech won some cautious praise. But Corker was less reserved.
“Today, Donald Trump delivered a very good foreign-policy speech in which he laid out his vision for American engagement in the world,” he said. And because Corker was (and is) the chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and is an establishment Republican, that statement carried a great deal of weight.
Corker began counseling Trump on foreign policy. At a time when opponents were arguing that Trump couldn’t be trusted with America’s nuclear arsenal, Corker vouched for him—or rather, he vouched for his faith that Trump’s behavior would improve.
“I don’t really worry about that caricature,” Corker told the Tennessean. “Once you come into the Oval Office and you understand the tremendous decisions that you have to make and the magnitude of those and the effect that it’s going to have on the world, I think that there’s a tremendous soberness and typically when you go in, you end up with lots of very highly qualified people around you.”
Corker must have seen a little of himself in Trump. He had moved seamlessly from a business career to the mayorship of Chattanooga, then the Senate, and finally the Foreign Relations Committee, learning what he needed along the way and growing into each new role. Corker, like Trump, had also bucked ideological hardliners in the GOP and earned a reputation as a dealmaker.
Even so, there were some notable differences between the men, including on policy. Corker, while critical of the Obama administration, had clinched a deal with Democrat Ben Cardin to prevent Iranian nuclear-weapons proliferation. Trump, at the Mayflower, called the agreement “a disastrous deal.”
By May, Corker was rumored to be a leading contender to join Trump as a vice-presidential candidate. But he still had reservations. After Trump attacked Judge Gonzalo Curiel as unfit to preside over a Trump University fraud case because of his Mexican ancestry, the senator was critical.
“He’s obviously stepped in it. He’s made statements that are inappropriate,” he said in June. “He’s got this defining period that’s over the next two or three weeks where he could pivot, can pivot, hopefully will pivot to a place where he becomes a true general election candidate.”
How brave you found this depended on what you thought Corker’s ambitions were. If he wanted to be vice president, this was some tough speech, but then again Corker was also simply saying what many Republicans, whether they supported Trump or not, believed: The campaign was on the verge of collapse.
Apparently Trump passed the three-week test (though he neither withdrew the Curiel attack nor notably moderated his tone and language), because a month later Corker was stumping for him in North Carolina, though he said on July 6 that he was withdrawing from the veepstakes.
Later that month, Trump was officially nominated for president, and most of the GOP rallied around him, as Corker had long before. When a tape emerged of Trump boasting about sexually assaulting women, Corker was critical—“These comments are obviously very inappropriate and offensive and his apology was absolutely necessary”—but did not step down from an advisory position to which he’d been appointed that day.
That looked like a wise (if ethically arguable) gamble after Trump won the race, surprising even himself, and Corker became a frontrunner to be secretary of state. Although many Republicans were eager for Corker to get the job—seeing him as a sober adult who would keep Trump in line—the senator said he doubted he’d get the pick, and in fact the job went to Rex Tillerson, who has endured a painful and ineffectual tenure that may end soon. Long-escalating tension between the president and his secretary of state has only intensified in recent weeks.
Corker has seemed to get more and more disillusioned about Trump as time goes on. In August, after Trump endorsed a soft white supremacy in the wake of the race riot in Charlottesville, Corker criticized him harshly.
“The president has not yet been able to demonstrate the stability nor some of the competence that he needs to demonstrate in order to be successful,” Corker told Chattanooga website Nooga.com. “He has not demonstrated that he understands what has made this nation great and what it is today, and he's got to demonstrate the characteristics of a president who understands that.”
Trump fired a warning shot shortly after that:
Strange statement by Bob Corker considering that he is constantly asking me whether or not he should run again in '18. Tennessee not happy!
Whether or not that was true, Corker was indeed weighing running for reelection. On September 26, he announced he would retire when his term ends next year. That day, he made a statement that sounded like a warning to the Trump administration. “I also believe the most important public service I have to offer our country could well occur over the next 15 months,” he said.
Since then, he has seemed liberated to speak more freely. On October 1, he said on Meet the Press that he stood by his post-Charlottesville criticism. On Tuesday, he suggested a willingness to vote against the White House tax-cut effort—a crucial piece of legislation for an administration that is still desperately seeking its first major legislative victory, some nine months into office.
Even more pungent were comments on Wednesday, after NBC News reported (and other outlets confirmed) that Tillerson had called Trump a “moron” behind closed doors, and had considered resignation.
“I think Secretary Tillerson, [Defense] Secretary [James] Mattis and Chief of Staff [John] Kelly are those people that help separate our country from chaos,” Corker said.
It’s a good bet those comments, which were discussed on this week’s Sunday shows, are what caught Trump’s attention. They also point to how the Iran deal, as the president’s tweets indicated, remain another center of tension between Corker and Trump. Trump has continued to speak critically of the Iran deal, even as he has continued to leave it in place. Tillerson, Mattis, and Kelly all believe the deal should remain in place; the most recent reports suggest that Trump might try to pass the buck by decertifying the deal but allowing Congress to affirm it and leave it in place.
As to whether Trump’s comments about not endorsing Corker are true, the president has a well-earned reputation for making things up. Although Trump has threatened to oppose GOP incumbents in Senate primaries, especially Arizona’s Jeff Flake, CNN reported that Trump had indicated he would endorse Corker.
One interpretation of all of this is that Corker is an agile politician. He recognized early on that Trump was unstoppable and aligned himself with the candidate; he prudently removed himself from consideration as vice president, then has seen Trump repeatedly humiliate Mike Pence; he sidestepped the secretary of state role, and has watched Rex Tillerson grow increasingly miserable and repeatedly been undercut by the president. Now, he’s attacking Trump as the presidency sinks into the quagmire—and leaving Washington before Trump can drag down the GOP around Corker.
Perhaps that is true, or perhaps Corker is genuinely appalled by Trump. Likely both are factors. But what is striking about Corker’s more recent statements, from his judgment that Trump has not “demonstrate[d] the stability nor some of the competence” he needs to his much blunter, crasser “adult day care” tweet, is how neatly they invert what he said 18 months ago. Back then, many Americans seemed to wonder whether Trump had the maturity to take on the role of president, and Bob Corker was there to assure them he’d grow into it, especially with wise counselors.
Now it is Corker who is warning that Trump not only has not grown into the role, but is too juvenile for it and requires minding by so-called adults in the room like Mattis, Kelly, and Tillerson. The Tennessee senator is the latest to recognize, or at least to state publicly, that there is no new Trump, no blossoming into the role of the presidency, no maturation—so in the absence of the Trump pivot he promised in April 2016, the nation has instead received a Corker pivot in October 2017.


These are ulcer-inducing times for moderate Republicans in Congress. With frenzied nationalism, populism, and Trumpsanity dominating the politiscape, displaying centrist tendencies in today’s GOP is like wearing a Taylor Swift T-shirt to Kim and Kanye’s house for dinner: You should expect things to get nasty.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
Complicating matters, any criticism of the party’s president or his policies will prompt a brutal backlash from miffed Trumpkins and from the loyalty-obsessed POTUS himself. At the same time, with Trump’s popularity languishing, the midterm elections promise to be particularly hairy for Republicans from purplish, swingy districts. Small wonder GOP moderates are becoming the stuff of folklore—like unicorns or leprechauns or men who look good in jorts.

Now, in the midst of all the turmoil, Representative Charlie Dent is calling it quits.  
For years, Pennsylvania’s Dent has served as the lonely voice of the center-right—what he calls “the governing branch” of his conference. Be it the 2013 shutdown showdown or conservatives’ fragging of Speaker John Boehner or infighting over Obamacare repeal, Dent has invariably been the guy standing atop the battlements waving the flag for the politics of the possible. Often, he appeared to be the only one up there.
Not that there aren’t other like-minded House Republicans. (No, really!) Dent is, in fact, co-chair of the moderate Tuesday Group, which, with 50-odd members, is comfortably larger than the ultra-conservative Freedom Caucus. But unlike Freedom Caucus rowdies, Tuesday Groupies are a low-key, low-profile bunch. (Quick! Name two members besides Dent.) Even the coalition’s co-chair, Elise Stefanik, rarely ventures into the political fray.
Of late, Dent’s profile has been edging ever higher as he has challenged Trump’s immoderation on issues ranging from the budget to the anti-Muslim travel ban to the spiraling Russia probe. In July, Politico spotlighted the mild-mannered congressman’s newly in-your-face style and suggested he was poised to increase the Tuesday Group’s clout.
Then, early last month, Dent dropped the bombshell: He will not seek reelection next year. Who’s to say why? Maybe he got sick of being called a traitor. Maybe he didn’t have the heart—or stomach—to take on the state lawmaker who recently launched a primary challenge, slamming Dent as the party’s “number-one turncoat.” Maybe he’s tired of being called on every single time a journalist needs a spokesman for moderate Republicanism. (A person can spend only so much time in studio green rooms without losing his soul.) Or maybe, as Dent told me, after seven terms in the House (on top of several in the state legislature) he’s looking “to go out at the top of [his] game” and try something else for a while. “That doesn’t mean I can’t get back into it,” he stressed. “I’m young enough. I’m only 57!”
Whatever his motivations or plans, Dent is out the door next year. But what of the moderate colleagues he’s leaving behind? Who among the Tuesday Groupies has the nerve (and rhino’s hide) required to be the new champion of this beleaguered political breed?
“I don’t want to divulge too much, but we have been talking about succession plans,” Dent assured me. Quick as a jackrabbit, he ticked through over a half-dozen Tuesday Groupies ready to rise to the occasion: Elise Stefanik, Ryan Costello, Leonard Lance, Carlos Curbelo, John Katko, Brian Fitzpatrick, and Patrick Meehan.
And that’s just for starters.
“We have some really good people ready, willing, and able step up,” said Dent. “They will take on greater roles—not necessarily as chair or co-chair—but in leadership roles providing a stronger voice for the pragmatic, governing wing of the party.”
Dent expressed confidence that his colleagues will grow into their new duties. “I was co-chair with Mark Kirk before he left in 2010 for the Senate,” he recalled. “Back then, people tended to talk to Mark about matters more than me. Which was fine. He was a little more senior, a little more experienced. When he left, I became the face. And when I leave, people like Elise, Carlos, Ryan, Leonard—they’re more than ready to step up. They’re very smart, very quick. They’ll do a good job. I’m not at all concerned.”
Still, Dent’s colleagues say it will take serious work to fill the hole.
“Charlie was the best at this in part because of his experience on the Appropriations Committee,” said Ryan Costello. “He just speaks this language. He’s dealt with same type of fight in the past two, three, four sessions of Congress. That gives him some battle wounds and expertise. He can sort of go back in time to say, ‘See, this what happened last time you guys tried to do that.’”
“Much more than his title, it’s that he takes questions, he owns what he says, he knows what he’s talking about, and he’s very quotable,” added Costello, noting that  there’s no single “heir apparent” at the ready. “With all due respect to my colleagues, no one is going to wake up tomorrow when Charlie Dent is gone and all of the sudden they are the new, outspoken Charlie Dent.”
“We rely heavily on him,” agreed Leonard Lance. “We want to make sure that our voice continues to be heard.”
The prevailing assumption is that, starting out, different Tuesday Groupies will pick up different pieces of the job. At this early stage, no one wants to name names, but the sorting has already begun. Caucus members note on background that Lance and John Katko are looking to join Stefanik as official co-chairs. (“I think it’s premature to discuss leadership,” Lance demurred, “But I will say that I intend to be heavily involved—perhaps more heavily involved than in the past.”)
Multiple other Groupies, meanwhile, could take over as public faces of the coalition, working the cameras and giving good quote. (Costello and Martha McSally are considered promising possibilities.) And, of course, individual lawmakers have pet interests and areas of expertise they’ll take the lead on. (Think McSally on military matters or Carlos Curbelo on immigration.)
All of this, mind you, depends on what happens in November of next year. “First things first,” stressed Lance, “the election comes before any new co-chairs.”
Dent acknowledged the trickiness of the midterms. “Our people tend to be from more marginal swing districts that are affected by the national political environment more than others,” he noted. But they are prepared for battle, he insisted. “I do believe a large number of them will pull through.”
Besides, said Dent, it’s not like he’s going to vanish from the game altogether. “You never really leave,” he said. “I’m not going anywhere. I’m gonna be around.”


Just when it seemed that even the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history could not shake the immovable stalemate over gun rights in Congress, a strange thing happened: Republicans started talking about tightening regulations on firearms.
In the days since a gunman identified as Stephen Paddock killed 59 people and injured hundreds more at a Las Vegas outdoor concert, a surprising number of GOP lawmakers have voiced support for taking action against the device known as a bump stock, which allowed Paddock to fire off bullets from his semiautomatic at a much faster—and therefore more lethal— clip.
Some, like Representative Carlos Curbelo of Florida, have called for legislation banning bump stocks altogether, while more senior Republicans like House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader John Cornyn have said Congress should investigate their legality but proceed more cautiously. The most significant statement, however, came on Thursday afternoon from the leaders of the National Rifle Association, who said that “devices designed to allow semi-automatic rifles to function like fully automatic rifles should be subject to additional regulations.”
The Rules of the Gun Debate
Taken together, the flurry of interest in bump stocks has raised the possibility that the Las Vegas massacre might spur congressional action where previous atrocities of gun violence, from the 2012 killing of 27 schoolchildren at Sandy Hook Elementary School to the 2015 slaughter of nine worshippers inside a Charleston church, have not.
Should advocates of gun control be optimistic that this time might actually be different?
Not yet.
Republicans indeed expressed genuine alarm after watching videos of the shooting that showed the apparent capability of bump stocks to turn a gun that is legal in the United States—a semiautomatic rifle—into something resembling a fully automatic weapon, which is illegal. And the NRA’s statement seemed to grant permission to its allies in Congress to take at least a modest step toward additional restrictions. “I think they should be banned,” Representative Bill Flores of Texas, a former chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee, told The Hill. “There’s no reason for a typical gun owner to own anything that converts a semi-automatic to something that behaves like an automatic.”
But there are no plans for Congress to move quickly on legislation, nor is there consensus within the GOP that the House and Senate should act at all. In part, that’s because most Republicans, many of whom own guns, had no idea what bump stocks were before Sunday’s shooting. “A lot of us are just coming up to speed,” Ryan told reporters on Thursday. “We just need to do more research to make sure the spirit of the law is being upheld.”
A spokeswoman for the speaker offered no information on what steps Republicans might take next. In the House Judiciary Committee, Chairman Bob Goodlatte of Virginia, a staunch supporter of gun rights, is “looking into the issue,” a committee aide said. But he has not decided whether even to hold hearings on bump stocks. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, meanwhile, told reporters on Tuesday that it was “premature to be discussing legislative solutions” after Las Vegas and has said nothing since.
The NRA’s position is also subject to misinterpretation. In its statement, the powerful gun lobby put the onus on the Department of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms—not Congress—to immediately review whether bump stocks comply with federal law. And in an appearance Thursday night on Fox News, NRA President Wayne LaPierre made clear that the organization supported “additional regulation” of bump stocks, not an outright ban.
Some Republicans, including White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, have pointed to decisions made by the ATF during the Obama administration that allowed for the legal sale of bump stocks. But a bureau spokesman said in an email Friday that ATF does not approve the devices; it merely determines what classification they fall under—a firearm, a part, a silencer, and so on. The ATF in 2010 determined that bump stocks are an attachment to a gun that replaces its grip and suppresses its recoil, but doesn’t on its own cause the gun to fire automatically. As such, the bureau said they were not subject to regulation under either the Gun Control Act or the National Firearms Act.
Some Republicans quickly followed the NRA’s lead and suggested it was ATF’s job to regulate bump stocks. They included House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, the Louisiana congressman who just returned to the Capitol after being shot on a baseball field in June. “I think they should, and they are,” he told NBC News in reference to the ATF, while warning lawmakers against a “rush to judgment.” On Friday, a group of nine Republican senators led by Dean Heller of Nevada wrote to ATF’s acting director, Thomas Brandon, asking him to review the Obama administration’s decision on bump stocks and “issue your own interpretation.”
And there remain plenty in the party who don’t want either the ATF or Congress to act at all on bump stocks. “Republicans in Congress asking the ATF to create more (and stricter) gun laws from existing laws is a bad idea,” tweeted Representative Thomas Massie of Kentucky, who leads the Second Amendment Caucus. A ban on bump stocks, he wrote, “is a red herring that would lead to ban of other firearms and accessories.”
Democrats are unsure what to make of the Republicans’ willingness to consider action against bump stocks. They believe much more is needed to adequately combat gun violence and reduce the frequency of mass shootings, including universal background checks, a ban on high-capacity magazines, and the renewal of a ban on assault weapons that Congress allowed to lapse in 2004. But most would jump at the chance to enact even a modest change like prohibiting bump stocks. “I think it’s too early to tell,” a top Democratic congressional aide told me on Friday when I asked about the likelihood of congressional action. “On the one hand, Republicans are talking about this issue differently than they usually do in the wake of mass shootings, so maybe they are serious.”
Indeed, it is certainly possible that the frightening accumulation of mass shootings over the last several years has begun to move Republicans off their ironclad opposition to increased restrictions on guns. Children murdered at a school in Connecticut. The race-fueled massacre in the sanctity of a church in South Carolina. The astonishing body count in Las Vegas. Perhaps, too, they increasingly fear for themselves after watching Scalise, one of their own, targeted in a shooting that could have been infinitely worse had the gunman been able to fire off rounds as rapidly as Paddock did on Sunday.
Still, the Democratic aide was skeptical.
“On the other hand,” the aide continued in an email, “they have all the incentive in the world to appear to want to do something, because what happened in Las Vegas was so horrific. So the cynical but potentially accurate take on it is that they’re saying the right things to look reasonable in the immediate aftermath, but as the headlines about the shooting begin to fade, so too will their interest in actually doing anything.”
This is not the first time Republicans have cracked open the door on gun-control legislation. After the school shooting at Sandy Hook, GOP Senator Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania and Democratic Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia proposed a compromise to expand background checks. But despite aggressive lobbying by then-President Barack Obama and polls indicating public support, the amendment could not overcome a Senate filibuster.
A ban on bump stocks would be an even more limited change to the law. But until Congress can prove otherwise, and Republicans in particular move from rhetoric to legislation, it’s reasonable to expect this latest bipartisan opening to meet a similar fate.


The Trump administration issued new regulations exempting employers from covering contraceptives if they object on moral or religious grounds, reversing the Affordable Care Act’s contraceptive mandate. Attorney General Jeff Sessions sent a government-wide memo reinforcing protections for religious liberties. Army Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl is reportedly expected to plead guilty to charges of desertion and misbehavior before the enemy. The U.S. economy lost 33,000 jobs in September, the first monthly decline in employment in seven years. Tropical Storm Nate, which has already killed at least 22 people in Costa Rica and Nicaragua, is expected to make landfall in the United States late Saturday night.
Rules of Engagement: The four rigid rules governing America’s gun debate preclude the country from implementing obvious solutions to its gun-violence problem. (David Frum)
What Is White Supremacy?: Liberals and conservatives alike have criticized the broad use of the label, but narrow definitions only serve to further solidify America’s racial hierarchy. (Vann R. Newkirk II)
The News Guy: In an interview with McKay Coppins, Fox News host Bret Baier describes what it’s like to be a relatively moderate voice on a partisan network, and discussed his struggle to book an interview with President Trump.
Radio Atlantic: In his new book, We Were Eight Years in Power, The Atlantic's national correspondent Ta-Nehisi Coates writes about the past eight years of his career—his pursuit of an understanding of America, and his route to becoming a celebrated author. In this episode of Radio Atlantic, our co-hosts Matt, Jeff, and Alex each conduct an interview with Ta-Nehisi about what he's found.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Sorry, Iowa: As the enrollment period for the Affordable Care Act marketplace approaches, President Trump and his administration seem bent on undermining the program. (Juliet Eilperin, The Washington Post)
‘Reign of Terror’: Pro-life congressman Tim Murphy’s political career might have withstood reports that he encouraged his lover to get an abortion. But a potential ethics investigation over his reported mistreatment of staffers is what ultimately pushed him to resign. (Rachael Bade, Jake Sherman, and John Bresnahan, Politico)
A Response to Bret Stephens: On Thursday, the New York Times columnist suggested getting rid of the Second Amendment altogether. Charles C. W. Cooke explains why his argument is both wrong and unconvincing. (National Review)
‘Getting to No’: Next week, President Trump is expected to announce that he will decertify the Iran deal, which he believes is not in the country’s best interest. Here’s how he came to his decision. (Stephen F. Hayes and Michael Warren, The Weekly Standard)
‘It Felt Impossible’: While rumors of sexual misconduct against Harvey Weinstein were Hollywood’s “worst-kept secret” for many years, there’s a reason why the allegations didn’t come out until now. (Rebecca Traister, New York)
Who They Were: Los Angeles Times profiled each victim of the Las Vegas shooting. Read their stories here.
After the deadly protests in Charlottesville, Virginia, in August, we asked you to share what you read to keep things in perspective and make sense of uncertain times. We returned to that question this week in light of the mass shooting in Las Vegas, asking what books or readings you turn to for comfort and reflection.
Gayle Golden wrote in with a host of ideas, including “Psalm 121,” which begins, “I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help,” and William Wordsworth’s “Ode: Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early Childhood.”
But most of all, she finds classical music most soothing. Gayle recommends pieces such as the third movement of Rachmaninoff's “Symphony No. 2” and The Beatles’s “Here Comes The Sun” as recorded by Yo Yo Ma and James Taylor.
Dennis Anderson recently read Just Mercy, by Bryan Stevenson: “[The author] mentions that all of us are broken people at some level. We have been broken by others. And we have broken others through our words, actions and even our silence and inaction … When we experience mercy, it transforms us and gives us the power to offer it to others,” he writes.
Finally, Doyle Reynolds has been re-reading James Herriot’s All Creatures Great and Small.
Thanks to everyone who submitted responses, and stay tuned for next week’s Question of the Week.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


In the aftermath of a major disaster, the federal government plays two essential roles: Get material help to the victims, and convey a sense of comfort and support. Should either of those not go according to plan, there’s always a third option: Quietly disappear anything that might reflect poorly.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
With the post-Hurricane Maria relief effort in Puerto Rico still a long way from complete, there are sobering statistics about conditions on the island. Less than 11 percent of people have electricity. Just 42 percent have working phones. Barely half have access to drinking water. And until this week, anyone visiting FEMA’s page for the Maria recovery effort could have found that information. But then, as The Washington Post first noticed, they’re gone now. FEMA still has some information there, including road status, but the bleakest numbers are gone.
FEMA’s answer is that the numbers are all available on an official Puerto Rican page, which is true. “Our mission is to support the governor and his response priorities through the unified command structure to help Puerto Ricans recover and return to routines. Information on the stats you are specifically looking for are readily available,” a spokesman told the Post. That’s all fair enough, but it doesn’t explain why FEMA was posting those numbers, or why it stopped now.
The deletion of the statistics both fits with the Trump administration’s pattern of treating Maria largely as a matter of so-called optics, the concern with how things look rather than how they are, and with its past tendency to remove public posting of data that cuts against its message in other realms. As a federal project, Maria poses a particularly difficult task: The scale of the destruction on Puerto Rico is bad, even for a major hurricane, and the territory’s remoteness makes it harder to move resources to than other American land. Brock Long, the head of FEMA, has described it as the biggest logistical challenge in American disaster history, and experts broadly agree. As both professional disaster managers and journalists like me have pointed out, while any delay is frustrating to those enduring it, the difficulties are real.
The problem is that faced with this trouble, the White House has, rather than acknowledging the challenges and offering comforting words, simply insisted that everything is copacetic. President Trump has struck a celebratory tone about the relief effort and criticized Puerto Rican officials for failing to do enough, and he picked a strange social-media fight with the mayor of San Juan. This was followed by a tone-deaf visit to the island, in which he solicited compliments on federal relief and tossed paper-towel rolls into a crowd before leaving the island ahead of schedule. In general, the president has appeared more deeply concerned with the political perception of his actions than about the state of the recovery.
That context makes it hard to approach the removal of Puerto Rico recovery data from the FEMA site without suspecting the goal is to put a more positive spin on messaging. It’s also hard to interpret the move outside of the Trump administration’s pattern of removing data from public websites when it undercuts the official line.
The most high-profile removals have concerned climate-change data, removed from several agency sites. Many high-level Trump officials have expressed skepticism about the changing climate, and the president has in the past called it a a “Chinese hoax.” National Park Service tweets about climate change also disappeared.
The administration has also removed records about animal-welfare violations recorded by the federal government. A counter of workplace deaths has been scrubbed from the site of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Energy-efficiency data is also gone.
Like the Puerto Rico statistics, it’s a soft sort of secrecy. The underlying data has not, as far as is known, ever been deleted, and it’s often a matter of public record. But the administration is often not legally required to make that information available online. By taking it down and making it something the public must request, or by removing information from a FEMA page and leaving a Spanish-language resource to take its place, the executive branch is wagering that simply making these records harder to see will help to sweep any criticism or public backlash a little farther out of sight.
In some cases, that may be right. In others, such as the FEMA data, the administration is caught in the act—and, ironically, that makes for bad optics.


Attorney General Jeff Sessions issued a government-wide memo to bolster federal protections for religious liberties on Friday, a move that could also weaken the federal government’s ability to prevent gender and LGBT discrimination.
In the 25-page memo, Sessions outlines 20 principles of religious liberty for federal departments and agencies to observe. The principles don’t create new protections against religious discrimination; instead, they instruct officials to give greater deference to religious-liberty claims under existing statutory and judicial protections.
“Except in the narrowest circumstances, no one should be forced to choose between living out his or her faith and complying with the law,” Sessions wrote. “Therefore, to the greatest extent practicable and permitted by law, religious observance and practice should be accommodated in all government activity, including employment, contracting, and programming.”
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
The memo places the Justice Department’s full weight behind the Trump administration’s ongoing efforts to roll back Obama-era legal interpretations that favored women and LGBT Americans. It prioritizes claims of religious-liberty violations over virtually every other concern, including anti-discrimination protections for gay, lesbian, and transgender Americans. And it invites Americans to invoke their faith to opt out of a range of federal rules and regulations when relevant.
The most immediate effect came from the Department of Health and Human Services, where officials issued new rules to largely dismantle the contraceptive mandate for health insurance. (In this case, the rollback also coincided with another top administration priority: to destabilize the Affordable Care Act.) Social conservatives have fought the mandate for years, arguing it compelled employers to violate their religious beliefs. Defenders said it insulated employees and their medical decisions from the personal beliefs of their employers.
Sessions adopted the social-conservative stance in Friday’s memo. The government, he wrote, could not “second-guess the determination of a religious employer that providing contraceptive coverage to its employees would make the employer complicit in wrongdoing in violation of the organization’s religious precepts.” In practical terms, my colleague Vann Newkirk explained, the new rules will now allow virtually any employer to claim the exception and stop providing employees with insurance plans that include contraception.
The Obama administration faced prolonged legal battles during its tenure over the Affordable Care Act’s contraceptive mandate, including two Supreme Court cases. Friday’s shift could lead to similar clashes. The ACLU said it would challenge the administration’s reversal only hours after the announcement, arguing it violates the Constitution’s religious-freedom and equal-protection guarantees. Brigitte Amiri, a senior staff attorney for the organization, said the administration “is forcing women to pay for their boss’s religious beliefs.”
Democratic-led states could also join the fight. “We have been anticipating this awful idea and have already begun working with other states to evaluate any legal response that may be appropriate to protect our citizens’ private decisions and access to affordable healthcare,” Virginia Attorney General Mark Herring said in a statement.
Sessions’s memo also sets the stage for federal departments and agencies to withdraw Obama-era protections for LGBT rights. The rules give broad deference to claims brought under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, a 1993 federal law that forbids the government from “substantially burdening” any exercises of religious belief. Because the memo gives maximum latitude to invocations of religious belief, it could limit discrimination claims made by gay, lesbian, and transgender Americans.
“This guidance is designed to do one thing—create a license to discriminate against the LGBTQ community and others, sanctioned by the federal government and paid for by taxpayers,” Vanita Gupta, who led the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division during the Obama administration, said in a statement. Chad Griffin, the president of the Human Rights Campaign, accused Trump of furthering a “cynical and hateful agenda” and said the memo “will enable systematic, government-wide discrimination that will have a devastating impact on LGBTQ people and their families.”
The Supreme Court is currently weighing a similar issue at the state level in Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission. The case centers on Jack Phillips, a Colorado baker who refused to bake a wedding cake for Charlie Craig and David Mullins, citing his personal objections to marriages between same-sex couples. The state’s civil-rights commission ruled Phillips had violated the state’s public-accommodations law by not baking the cake; he appealed the case in the federal courts on religious-liberty grounds. The court has yet to set oral arguments in the case, and a ruling won’t be handed down until at least next year.
Sessions has already undertaken multiple steps to reverse Obama-era protections for LGBT rights. The day before releasing Friday’s memo, he revoked guidance issued by former attorney general Eric Holder that had instructed U.S. attorneys to interpret gender identity as part of the Civil Rights Act of 1964’s ban on discrimination of the basis of “sex.” The interpretation widened those protections to include transgender Americans. Sessions replaced it with guidance advising that the protections only applied to biological sex.
Friday’s guidance came as part of the Justice Department’s enforcement of a May executive order issued by President Trump on religious liberty. In a statement announcing the memo’s release, Sessions framed it as a defensive move aimed at protecting religious freedom in the United States. “As President Trump said, ‘Faith is deeply embedded into the history of our country, the spirit of our founding and the soul of our nation ... [this administration] will not allow people of faith to be targeted, bullied, or silenced anymore,’” the attorney general wrote.


Many Americans seem eager this week to see the phrase “thoughts and prayers” die a good platitude’s death. After the worst mass shooting in U.S. history took the lives of 59 Las Vegas concertgoers Sunday night, a sentiment meant to express solidarity sounded to some like cold comfort. When tweeted by elected officials who could feasibly pass tighter gun-control laws, the phrase struck people as not only irritating, but also potentially dangerous: What if uttering this hollow but nice-sounding sentiment allows legislators to bypass the “real” work of passing better laws? What if it allows all of us to avoid the concrete political work of pressuring them to do so? When the public stakes are so high, the argument goes, a nation cannot afford to retreat to private spirituality: Instead, we must act.
But prayer is not inaction. I would argue that it is perhaps the most powerful form of action you can engage in during a crisis—and that’s true whether you believe in God or not. There are good reasons why prayer remains a daily activity for more than half of all Americans (55 percent), including about one in five religiously unaffiliated people or “nones.” Even for those of us who aren’t sure that God exists and that our prayer can change God, prayer can certainly change us.
Neuroscientific research conducted over the past few decades has found that prayer can radically reshape the human brain, leading to increased focus and peace. In the 1990s, neuroscientist Andrew Newberg famously studied the brain scans of 150 people from different religions, from Franciscan nuns to Buddhist monks. He found that those who engaged deeply in prayer for 12 minutes a day over a couple of months had activated frontal lobes and quiet parietal lobes. The result? Those who prayed regularly were more focused, less anxious, and felt more connected to other people.
What Science Says About 'Thoughts and Prayers'
Sara Lazar expanded on Newberg’s findings in 2014. A Harvard neuroscientist, Lazar had been surprised to find how much her life improved as a result of meditating for a few minutes during yoga classes, which she initially attended purely as a form of physical therapy. So she conducted several studies and found that a half-hour of meditation each day yielded differences in brain volume after just eight weeks. Brain scans showed thickening in four areas: the posterior cingulate (involved in mind wandering), the left hippocampus (involved in learning, cognition, memory, and emotional regulation), the temporoparietal junction (involved in empathy and compassion), and the pons (involved in the production of regulatory neurotransmitters). The scans also showed that the amygdala (involved in anxiety, fear, and stress) got smaller.
The meditators in Lazar’s study showed better emotional regulation, more empathy, less fear, and an increased ability to stay focused in difficult situations. These findings suggest that intentionally observing a few quiet moments each day can improve one’s wellbeing, whether those few moments are spent focusing on God or simply observing one’s own body and environment in a state of mindfulness—which can be an utterly secular endeavor.
But are we really to think that prayer and meditation will help stop gun violence in the United States, even if many Americans aren’t sure there is a God who answers prayer?
Actually, yes—especially in the initial throes of a tragedy. Since prayer aids in clear, calm, and empathetic thinking, if we are going to respond well to complicated issues such as gun control, prayer may be more helpful in leading us toward better policy solutions than would an urgent, fretful, ill-considered response.
The same applies to our elected officials: If we want them to use their power to change gun laws (or tackle any other incredibly complex issue of the day), then we should want them to be engaging with “thoughts and prayers”—although in order to have a positive effect, this does need to be a sincere and regular activity, not just an ad-hoc performance on Twitter. Again, the positive effect on mental and emotional health is there even if they don’t believe that human prayer can change God.
For those who do believe, it’s even easier to make the case for prayer.
Most Americans—nearly three in four—believe that prayer is a direct line to a God who cares about the world and is intimately involved in the lives of all people. In the Judeo-Christian tradition, this God is not the removed watchmaker, who set the natural laws in place and let things run their course, passively looking on as innocents are killed in mass shootings. This God “bends down to listen” and “inclines His ears to hear” the utterances of every person who prays, to quote the psalmist of the Bible. This God is radically interventionist, and can move nations’ leaders to pursue righteousness and justice on behalf of said innocents.
Great social change, including the abolitionist and civil rights movements of the past two centuries, found a lifeline in a God who could break the slaves’ chains, bring slaveholders to account, change the hearts and minds of Southern business-owners and politicians, and daily sustain those leaders who put their lives on the line for freedom for the oppressed. Of course, those leaders did not only pray: They also marched in the streets, staged sit-ins, and met with legislators to bring about freedom, many of them sacrificing their lives in the process. But prayer for them wasn’t a means to an end, a ritualistic comfort in the midst of more important work. It was an end in itself, an active wrestling and pleading with the God of the universe to bring justice and peace to the nation and its inhabitants. In other words, prayer was action.
This is no less true in the wake of a tragedy like that in Las Vegas. If you really believe that there is a God who responds to prayer, is intimately involved in human affairs, and could heal this nation’s deep pathologies of violence and revenge, then prayer should be the first thing you do after a mass shooting. Not the only thing, but the first thing.
Whatever your beliefs about God, a sincere appeal to “thoughts and prayers” in moments of crisis is not an indulgent retreat from reality, but a responsible reaction to it. To insist that we humans can heal the world’s pathologies on our own, without any appeal to God or spirituality, is just hubris. And it hasn’t worked for us yet.


Faced with setbacks on the legislative front, the Trump administration is going it alone on taking apart the Affordable Care Act piecemeal.
On Friday, the administration made one of its boldest moves yet, with two memos from multiple agencies that would dramatically curtail women’s access to birth control through their employers. The new regulations, effective immediately, would exempt all employers and insurers from covering or paying for coverage of contraceptives if they object “based on its sincerely held religious beliefs,” or have other “moral convictions” against covering such care.
The new rules are the latest development in a war that has gone on between the White House and religious institutions since the very genesis of the ACA in 2010. The text of the legislation does not mention an actual requirement that employers’ plans cover contraception in their required preventative services, but under the law’s discretion and the eye of the courts, birth control and women’s health services have been considered a standard part of that set. Employers were required to cover at least one of all of the 18 FDA-approved methods of birth control with no cost-sharing for the patient. While places of worship themselves were always exempted on the grounds of religious freedom, other religious entities or enterprises owned or operated by churches, like Catholic schools, Catholic hospitals, and other independent charities, were not.
The inclusion of those entities under the contraceptive mandate set off five years of Supreme Court cases and subsequent accommodations by the Obama White House. One major accommodation was that nonprofit religious entities that weren’t places of worship could refuse to cover contraceptive services through their own plans, but would still have to pay for the cost of that coverage through third-party or government insurers. Similar accommodations were granted for “closely-held for-profit entities” in the wake of the 2014 Burwell v. Hobby Lobby decision.
According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, about 10 percent of all eligible nonprofits have taken this accommodation, but several nonprofits, including those captured in the Zubik v. Burwell lawsuit that was remanded by the Supreme Court, wanted full exemptions, instead of accommodations.
The Trump administration’s new rule grants that wish and much more. According to a New York Times report Thursday, the White House has concluded that there is no way to accommodate every objector to the mandate, and that “application of the mandate to entities with sincerely held religious objections to it does not serve a compelling governmental interest.” But in creating such broad categories of employers that merely have religious or even moral convictions against providing contraceptive services, it opens the door for pretty much all employers to simply stop covering them and paying for them, with no alternatives. It leaves accommodations in place, but as optional measures to be taken by employers should they wish.
The new rules will probably result in a noticeable increase in the number of women who have to pay out of pocket again for contraceptive services. The regulation itself notes that “these final rules will result in some enrollees in plans of exempt entities not receiving coverage or payments for contraceptive services.” That might be an understatement. Half of all women receive their coverage through their employers, and the ACA’s mandate has reduced the percentage of women from ages 15 to 44 who have to pay for contraceptive coverage through their employer from 20 to 3.6 percent.
In addition to simply providing women with much more flexibility as to their birth-control options, the mandate also provides real health benefits. Early research indicated that lower costs mean that adherence to contraception is higher, and thus unwanted pregnancies might be avoided. Also, the law reduces total out-of-pocket spending by women and their families on health care and potential expenses for those pregnancies or for abortions.
While it’s unclear how many employers will cite religious or moral objections, exempting those already under accommodation and increasing that number when new objections are considered would mean at least thousands of women will have to pay for contraceptive services on their own—or forgo them.
These rules are part of a reinvigorated push by the Trump administration to flex its considerable regulatory authority to roll back Obamacare. With multiple repeal bills failing in the House and the Senate, the White House and the Department of Health and Human Services have always signaled that they would dismantle the program where they could.
This spring, HHS moved to cut the 2018 open enrollment period in half from 90 days to 45 days. In August, Vox reported that the department would reduce spending on outreach and advertising for the 2017 open enrollment period—stretching from November 1 to December 15—by 72 percent. In September, Buzzfeed reported that HHS regional directors were being reported not to attend states’ open enrollment events. And on Thursday, The Washington Post reported that Trump personally opposed plans from Republicans in Iowa to adjust risks and stabilize the state’s own marketplaces.
Today’s regulations are just another part of that effort. Even without the repeal savvy of former health secretary Tom Price, moves like the rollback of contraceptive care are carefully crafted in ways that will destabilize Obamacare, often by placing more cost burdens on those who can’t afford them, and by curtailing the law’s regulations on benefits and risk. Obamacare isn’t out of the woods by any stretch, and some of the early effects of the ramped-up war of attrition against it will be felt by women.


A parable:
A village has been built in the deepest gully of a floodplain.
At regular intervals, flash floods wipe away houses, killing all inside. Less dramatic—but more lethal—is the steady toll as individual villagers slip and drown in the marshes around them.
After especially deadly events, the villagers solemnly discuss what they might do to protect themselves. Perhaps they might raise their homes on stilts? But a powerful faction among the villagers is always at hand to explain why these ideas won’t work. “No law can keep our village safe! The answer is that our people must learn to be better swimmers - and oh by the way, you said ‘stilts’ when the proper term is ‘piles,’ so why should anybody listen to you?”
So the argument rages, without result, year after year, decade after decade, fatalities mounting all the while. Nearby villages, built in the hills, marvel that the gully-dwellers persist in their seemingly reckless way of life. But the gully-dwellers counter that they are following the wishes of their Founders, whose decisions two centuries ago must always be upheld by their descendants.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
The deadliest mass shooting in American history has restarted the long debate whether something can be done to impede these recurring slaughters. That debate is conducted pursuant to rigid rules.
Rule 1. The measures to be debated must bear some relationship to the massacre that triggered the debate. If the killer acquired his weapons illegally, it’s out of bounds to point out how lethally easy it is to buy weapons legally. If the killer lacked a criminal record, it’s out of bounds to talk about the inadequacy of federal background checks. The topic for debate is not, “Why do so many Americans die from gunfire?” but “What one legal change would have prevented this most recent atrocity?”
Rule 2. The debate must focus on unusual weapons and accessories: bump stocks, for example, the villain of the moment. Even the NRA has proclaimed itself open to some regulation of these devices. After the 2012 mass shooting in an Aurora, Colorado, movie theater, attention turned to large capacity magazines. What is out of bounds is discussion of weapons as in themselves a danger to human life and public safety.
Rule 3. The debate must always honor the “responsible gun owners” who buy weapons for reasonable self-defense. Under Rule 1, these responsible persons are presumed to constitute the great majority of gun owners. It’s out of bounds to ask for some proof of this claimed responsibility, some form of training for example. It’s far out of bounds to propose measures that might impinge on owners: the alcohol or drug tests for example that are so often recommended for food stamp recipients or teen drivers.
Rule 4. Gun ownership is always to be discussed as a rational choice motivated by reasonable concerns for personal safety. No matter how blatantly gun advocates appeal to fears and fantasies—Sean Hannity musing aloud on national TV about how he with a gun in his hands could have saved the day in Las Vegas if only he had been there—nobody other than a lefty blogger may notice that this debate is about race and sex, not personal security. It’s out of bounds to observe that “Chicago” is shorthand for “we only have gun crime because of black people” or how often “I want to protect my family” is code for “I need to prove to my girlfriend who’s really boss.”
These rules are powerful, and I myself have sometimes played the game according to them. I suggested here in The Atlantic back in 2015:
A requirement that gun owners carry insurance would not only protect potential accident victims—including gun owners, since many gun accidents are self-inflicted—against economic loss. An insurance requirement would create incentives for more responsible gun behavior. Just as insurance companies offer better rates to those who install burglar alarms, so they might offer better rates to those who install secure gun safes. Just as a prior accident raises the future cost of car insurance, so careless gun owners will be encouraged to exercise better care in the future.
I still think this is a good idea. But I’ve come around more and more to the gun advocate point of view that there is something artificial and even dishonest about the technocratic approach to gun control. There’s nothing wrong with, say, Nick Kristof’s list of ideas in an October 2 New York Times column of proposals such as
Limit gun purchases by any one person to no more than, say, two a month, and tighten rules on straw purchasers who buy for criminals. Make serial numbers harder to remove.
But once you have accepted that it’s reasonable for citizens to accumulate firearms at the rate of 24 a year, it’s hard to imagine that there is really anything else you can do that will prevent a lot of gun deaths. Americans die from gunfire in proportions unparalleled in the civilized world because Americans own guns in proportions unparalleled in the civilized world. More guns mean more lethal accidents, more suicides, more everyday arguments escalated into murderous fusillades.
It’s of course imaginable that by undertaking a vast network of ultra-intrusive interventions into family and personal life, a society could reduce those negative outcomes even without reducing its arsenals of firearms.
Leah Libresco, in a much praised article in the October 3 Washington Post offered just such an alternative.
Instead, I found the most hope in more narrowly tailored interventions. Potential suicide victims, women menaced by their abusive partners and kids swept up in street vendettas are all in danger from guns, but they each require different protections.
…
Older men, who make up the largest share of gun suicides, need better access to people who could care for them and get them help. Women endangered by specific men need to be prioritized by police, who can enforce restraining orders prohibiting these men from buying and owning guns. Younger men at risk of violence need to be identified before they take a life or lose theirs and to be connected to mentors who can help them de-escalate conflicts.
There are many ways to describe such a project, but “narrowly tailored” is not it. There are some 23 million American men over age 65. Identifying which of them are depressed—and then providing access to mental health for that subgroup—would be a social intervention of a very large scale. Even more impressive though is the project to identify young men at risk of violence and then to dissuade them from it. Since one of the most powerful indicator of that risk is race, undertaking such a project while also complying with civil rights laws will be more daunting yet. It is as if we decided that rather than crudely require airline passengers to wear seatbelts during turbulence, we instead would take the “narrowly tailored” approach of mapping all the air pressure variations throughout the planet’s atmosphere in order to pilot around them.
There are subtle, sophisticated, and nuanced approaches to the gun problem that balance the rights of gun owners against the imperatives of gun safety. They may well even make some difference at the margin. But they are unlikely to make any significant difference. Americans debate these approaches not because they are likely to be effective, but because the methods that will work—that have worked in every other advanced society—are here politically taboo.
Was there one legal change that could have thwarted Stephen Paddock? Probably not. But the reason crimes like his are so common here, and so rare in western Europe, is not that we are afflicted with more Stephen Paddocks than they, but because their Stephen Paddocks find it so much more difficult to obtain guns, and especially large quantities of guns. It is not impossible there either of course. The jihadist terrorists who killed 130 people in November 2015 carried rifles, as did the Charlie Hebdo killers.
But a society is in a much better position to stop shooting deaths when it can tightly regulate the buying and carrying of weapons long before they are ever used to murder anybody. In all but a half dozen American states, it would be perfectly legal for people like the Charlie Hebdo killers to walk to the very front door of their targets with their rifles slung over their shoulders, lawful responsible gun owners to the very second before they opened fire on massed innocents.
Like the villagers in the flood plain in my parable, Americans are unlikely to see much benefit from their ingenious technical solutions to gun violence so long as guns are easily available to just about everyone who wants them.
So in a limited sense, the gun advocates are right. The promise of “common sense gun safety” is a hoax, i.e. Americans probably will not be able to save the tens of thousands of lives lost every year to gun violence—and the many more thousands maimed and traumatized—while millions of Americans carry guns in their purses and glove compartments, store guns in their night tables and dressers. Until Americans change their minds about guns, Americans will die by guns in numbers resembling the casualty figures in Somalia and Honduras more than Britain or Germany.
It’s truly hard to imagine that this change will be led by law. Guns are inscribed into the Constitution of the United States and the individual states. On the other hand, it’s also in most states legal for a parent to strap her child into a car seat, roll the windows up tight, and smoke a pack of cigarettes in the vehicle.  Parents almost universally refrain, not because they are compelled, but because they love their children and will not willingly expose them to acknowledged dangers.
Maybe the most decisive first step toward a safer society is to think less, for now, about (comparatively rare) mass shootings—and think more instead about (horrifyingly commonplace) everyday tragedies like this one in Tampa, Florida, on September 21: “A 4-year-old Florida girl has died after accidentally pulling the trigger of a gun when she reached into her grandmother's purse for candy.”
Or this one, September 29, in Dearborn, Michigan: “Two three-year-old children have been shot by another toddler at a home daycare facility in the US state of Michigan.” Or this, from Kentucky on August 1: “Police said a 2-year-old died Monday after being shot in the head in his Louisville home. … [T]he boy and his 3-year-old brother found the gun in the top of a closet.”
The adults who exposed those children to death and injury surely thought they were doing the right thing by having guns in their home. But they were wrong, dead wrong. As Melinda Wenner Moyer writes in the current issue of Scientific American: “The research on guns is not uniform, and we could certainly use more of it. But when all but a few studies point in the same direction, we can feel confident that the arrow is aiming at the truth—which is, in this case, that guns do not inhibit crime and violence but instead make it worse.”
And the surest sign that gun advocates know how lethal the science is for their cause is their determination to suppress it: since the mid-1990s, Republicans in Congress have successfully cut off federal funding for non-industry gun-safety research.  That’s not what you do when the facts are on your side.
Gun safety begins, then, not with technical fixes, but with spreading the truthful information: people who bring guns into their homes are endangering themselves and their loved ones.
Such a change would not in itself prevent massacres like that in Las Vegas, any more than relocating the village in my parable would stop all drownings. Creeks course down hillsides as well as through valleys. But in an America where guns were viewed as they are in Australia or Canada, the project of moving two dozen of them into a hotel suite would likely be detected somewhere along the way. The person moving those guns would find himself in trouble—not for murder—but for some petty gun infraction. His weapons might be confiscated, or he himself sent to prison for some months. His plan would be interrupted very likely without anyone ever imagining what had been contemplated. Mass shootings so seldom happen in other countries not because they have developed carefully crafted policies against shootings, but because they have instituted broad policies to restrict guns.
Those countries do not restrict gun ownership to zero. According to the Swiss-based Small Arms Survey, rates of gun ownership in Switzerland and Finland are more than half the US rate; in Canada, France, Norway, and Sweden more than one-third the US rate.
But those countries do tightly regulate the movement of guns from place to place. Because they regard gun ownership as a privilege rather than a right, they screen much more carefully not only for criminal records, but for histories of addiction, mental health treatment, and domestic violence. They test whether applicants for gun licenses can in fact, and not just in self-assessment, handle their weapons responsibly. They protect against major gun crime with the same “broken windows” policing philosophy that Americans used to secure their cities in the 1990s: lawbreakers typically commit a lot of petty infractions on their way to bigger crimes, and enforcing against the former can head off many of the latter.
Even more basically: because there are fewer guns and gun owners to track, those who are dangerous stand out more conspicuously, before it is too late. By living above the floodplain, those countries better manage the flood. Americans insist instead on seeking the one technical fix that would save lives without reducing guns. It’s an illusion for which Americans annually pay a higher price in blood than they shed in most of the nation’s wars.


In the ACLU’s long history of First Amendment advocacy, it has repeatedly defended Nazis and racists on the premise that free speech rights are indivisible: that “restricting the speech of one group or individual jeopardizes everyone’s rights because the same laws or regulations used to silence bigots can be used to silence you.”
Often that approach has been controversial in the moment, but bolstered its long-term reputation for principled advocacy on behalf of folks on all sides of national divisions.
But today, even as everyone less odious than Nazis benefits from case law protecting  even the most odious and despicable people in world history, the ACLU’s successful approach is sparking intense criticism and creating deep fissures inside the organization, as The New York Times noted this week, quoting an open letter from about 200 ACLU staff members who argued that “our broader mission—which includes advancing the racial justice guarantees in the Constitution and elsewhere, not just the First Amendment—continues to be undermined by our rigid stance.”
Those dissenting staffers are making a grave error.
The traditional approach of the ACLU has been clearly and repeatedly vindicated by history as advancing the larger cause of justice for people of all races, ethnicities, and religions. Its actions in Charlottesville did nothing to undermine those goals. And post-Charlottesville doubts about whether the ACLU would defend the alt-right are already leading to unintended consequences that undermine its mission.
With the best of intentions, the dissenters inside the ACLU have staked out a position that will harm disempowered racial and religious minorities if it succeeds or persists.
Bygone ACLU defenses of hateful right-wing speakers have never enabled or even preceded a spike in political power for American Nazis or members of the Ku Klux Klan.
Skokie didn’t portend a descent into fascism.
But those principled defenses of speech and the precedents that they set did repeatedly lay critical groundwork that helped opponents of needless warmaking and racism.
ACLU Senior Staff Attorney Lee Rowland noted one example back during the 2016 campaign, amid calls to charge Donald Trump with incitement for violent talk at his rallies. She referenced a case that the ACLU of Ohio had litigated for a bigot years earlier.
“The Brandenburg test is named after Clarence Brandenburg, an avowed racist convicted for holding an Ohio KKK rally in the late 1960s. The Supreme Court overturned his conviction, despite the rally’s talk of ‘revengeance’ against Jews and black people, and held that ‘abstract advocacy of force’ was protected speech that did not amount to incitement,” she explained. “A few years later, in a short opinion relying entirely on Brandenburg, the Court struck down another state conviction—this time of an anti-war protester who a cop overheard yelling, ‘We’ll take the fucking streets later.’ The court again held that advocacy of generic illegal action was not incitement.”
Anti-war protesters weren’t the only disempowered minority to benefit from Brandenburg. “Perhaps the high water mark for incitement law is NAACP v. Claiborne Hardware, in which the court upheld civil-rights icon Charles Evers’s right to deliver ‘emotionally charged rhetoric’ at a 1966 rally,” she explained. “Evers was advocating that a crowd of supporters boycott racist, white-owned businesses, and during his passionate speech, he promised that ‘We’ll break the damn neck’ of anyone who broke the boycott. Citing Brandenburg once again, the court held that there was no evidence ‘that Evers authorized, ratified, or directly threatened acts of violence.’”
But for the ACLU’s successful defense of an abhorrent bigot in Brandenburg, one wonders how many more anti-war protesters and civil-rights activists would’ve been imprisoned. Thank goodness anti-racists who found it distasteful did not prevail!
Elsewhere the ACLU has noted other cases that vindicate its bygone representation of bigots:
… in the 1949 case of Terminiello v. Chicago, the ACLU successfully defended an ex-Catholic priest who had delivered a racist and anti-semitic speech. The precedent set in that case became the basis for the ACLU’s successful defense of civil rights demonstrators in the 1960s and ‘70s. The indivisibility principle was also illustrated in the case of neo-Nazis whose right to march in Skokie, Illinois, in 1979 was successfully defended by the ACLU. At the time, then ACLU Executive Director Aryeh Neier, whose relatives died in Hitler’s concentration camps during World War II, commented: “Keeping a few Nazis off the streets of Skokie will serve Jews poorly if it means that the freedoms to speak, publish, or assemble any place in the United States are thereby weakened.”
The ACLU has been subject to criticism for representing the organizers of the alt-right gathering in Charlottesville where a counter-protester was killed by a white supremacist. That murder was abhorrent, and a great tragedy for the loved ones of the deceased; and the ACLU is under no principled obligation to represent anyone if they believe that their real intention is to perpetrate violence; but the ACLU had no reason to anticipate that one of the alt-right protesters would run a woman down with his car.
What’s more, the effect of the Charlottesville rally was not to empower the alt-right. On the contrary, the public display of abhorrent behavior and symbols seemingly weakened it.
As I noted last month, the journalist Angela Nagle spent years on some of the most transgressive fringes of the web to write Kill All the Normies: Online Culture Wars From 4Chan and Tumblr to Trump and the Alt-Right. In an interview on Ezra Klein’s podcast and in “Goodbye Pepe,” she reported that the subculture she long observed was changed irrevocably after the parade of Nazis and killing of an anti-racist protester, because many who treated the subculture as a game, and told themselves  its racism was ironic, had to confront how abhorrent and gravely serious it was.
Don’t get me wrong. The ACLU did not predict that Charlottesville would expose the alt-right as abetters of torch-carrying klansmen; force immature “shit-posters” to grapple with their complicity in deadly white supremacy; and cause millions of Americans to realize anew that the forces of bigotry are terrifyingly real and must be opposed. But those actual consequences of Charlottesville cut against the notion that the ACLU’s role in helping the event to happen somehow empowered white supremacists. Charlottesville was the biggest disaster for the alt-right in recent memory.
The end of the New York Times article on the ACLU, its official willingness to advocate for the alt-right in the future, and dissenting opinion among some staff members ends with an ominous line that suggests an unintended consequence of the controversy:
Whatever comes of the debate inside the ACLU, leaders of the alt-right say they are looking past the civil-liberties union and seeking to forge more sympathetic legal alliances. “We do not want or need their help,” Kyle Bristow, a Michigan lawyer who identifies with the alt-right, wrote in an email, explaining that he was building a network of like-minded lawyers.
That passage is clarifying. It is a reminder that the ACLU is not in the business of creating or granting speech rights, it simply helps secure rights that others already possess. In the ACLU’s absence, there are poor clients who’d go entirely without representation; but the alt-right, which is not impoverished, will not go without representation.
And its new legal team is likely to have a very different agenda.
So the tradeoff is as follows:
Safeguarding the civil liberties of the powerless requires farsightedness and a strong stomach. The structure of our legal system, where precedents are set around hard cases rather than abstract arguments, guarantees that all of our First Amendment rights will be affected by how the most abhorrent kinds of speech are treated; that all of our Fourth Amendment rights will be shaped by cases involving hugely unsympathetic criminals; that what constitutes a “cruel or unusual punishment” could turn on how willing lawyers are to advocate on behalf of a child molester, a traitor, or a terrorist.
A willingness to apply the indivisibility principle to white supremacists––as surely as to their moral cousins, like child molesters, rapists, and captured terrorists––is of a piece with this farsighted, strong-stomached comportment. Using that approach, the ACLU has achieved more for racial justice than any of its critics. It will best serve the most vulnerable among us going forward.
Send dissents to conor@theatlantic.com


Who or what is a white supremacist, exactly? The raging debate has resembled nothing so much as a classical ontological discourse on categorization. Are white supremacists considered so because they consider themselves so? Does one become a white supremacist by more Aristotelian means, expressing a certain number of categories of being—or swastika tattoos? Or is the definition something more slippery and subtle?
The language of white supremacy has become increasingly central to understanding the argument over the broad currents of Donald Trump’s ascendancy. Long before ESPN anchor Jemele Hill famously referred to Trump as a white supremacist on Twitter, the questions of just who is a white supremacist, and just what white supremacy is, have dominated the analysis of how he came into power, and what that power means.
Hill’s comments came as part of the general response to an essay from my colleague Ta-Nehisi Coates, one in which Coates says that Trump’s “ideology is white supremacy, in all its truculent and sanctimonious power.” The bent of that essay is that whiteness—and in turn white supremacy—uniquely buoyed Trump’s candidacy, and that he has in turn openly wielded those energies to capture support and lead. Hill’s summation seemed to complete the square of that argument: “Donald Trump is a white supremacist who has largely surrounded himself with other white supremacists.” In this argument, white supremacy is framed as a broad concept, one where wielding racism or benefitting from it, even in its subtler forms, earns one the mark.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
Opposition to this framing has varied, from conservatives who decry a tendency of liberals to see the hidden hand of racism in gosh darn everything, to those on the left who feel Coates downplays materialist analysis and unduly elevates Trump’s danger above that of other racist presidents. But one of the thought-provoking sets of analyses comes from those who roughly agree with Coates that Trump’s primary appeal has been racial—perhaps, racist—but disagree with labeling his ideology as “white supremacy” or with Hill’s assertion that he is an obvious white supremacist.
There are several shades of gray to those objections, but a column from Jonathan Chait in New York sums them up best. Chait does not agree with an expansive definition of white supremacy that would capture say David Duke, Steve Bannon, and Donald Trump, writing that “to flatten the language we use to describe different kinds of right-wing politics is to bludgeon our capacity to make vital distinctions.” Chait sees this labeling as a kind of language creep that in casting a wide net simultaneously cheapens some of America’s cherished institutions and in turn might tend to encourage radical acts against them.
This criticism of a broad definition of white supremacy isn’t new. Last November, Mother Jones’s Kevin Drum decried the “faddish term” wielded against members of the left and the right, and placed the genesis of that connotation with Coates himself. Jesse Singal, also of New York, and a frequent interlocutor of mine, tweeted yesterday expressing concern about the flexibility of the term as used by activists. “Don't understand the utility of labeling a huge swath of things ‘white supremacist’ or ‘Nazi’ that simply aren't,” Singal said. Our resultant conversation is threaded on Twitter and became the genesis of this essay.
To perhaps unfairly flatten these three arguments, which constitute the best of this school of objection, they tend to agree that the modern expansive definition of white supremacy is, well, modern. But that proposition is limited. The school of critical race theory, championed by scholars such as bell hooks, has been around in academic circles for at least 30 years, and its definition of white supremacy has long animated black activism. To quote scholar Frances Lee Ansley (taken here from a passage from David Gillborn, also, a critical-race-theory scholar):
“By ‘white supremacy’ I do not mean to allude only to the self-conscious racism of white supremacist hate groups. I refer instead to a political, economic and cultural system in which whites overwhelmingly control power and material resources, conscious and unconscious ideas of white superiority and entitlement are widespread, and relations of white dominance and non-white subordination are daily reenacted across a broad array of institutions and social settings.”
The provenance of that definition of white supremacy does not alone guarantee its usefulness, and 30 years is still relatively new in the academia-to-modern parlance frame. Also, as my colleague Conor Friedersdorf noted last November, the critical-race-theory definition could very well be “the vernacular of a tiny, insular subculture,” one which is contested and has not reached the level of consensus.
But the idea of critical-race-theory’s insularity is belied by its deep communion with widely-read titans of black intellectual thought. James Baldwin’s work did nothing if not tend towards the idea of “white supremacy” as a collective effort that went well beyond the work of self-avowed members of hate groups, and his 1980 essay in Esquire titled “Dark Days” crystalized that tendency. “To be white was to be forced to digest a delusion called white supremacy,” Baldwin wrote. In that essay, which itself was written in parallel with the nascence of critical race theory, Baldwin ties the very concept of whiteness to white supremacy.
Lest Baldwin be counted along with Frantz Fanon and Malcolm X as more radical “fringe” voices on the topic of white supremacy, the idea of white supremacy as a shared culture has been floated by many of the establishment voices of the civil-rights-movement, including none other than Martin Luther King, Jr. In his 1967 book Where Do We Go from Here: Chaos or Community?, which is itself concerned with hope and building interracial solidarity, King wrote that  “the doctrine of white supremacy was imbedded in every textbook and preached in practically every pulpit. It became a structural part of the culture,” one that persisted to the present day.
“However much it is denied, however many excuses are made, the hard cold fact is that many white Americans oppose open housing because they unconsciously, and often consciously, feel that the Negro is innately inferior, impure, depraved and degenerate,” King wrote. “It is a contemporary expression of America’s long dalliance with racism and white supremacy.”
King saw that white supremacy was a structural pillar of America equally important to democracy itself. In that work, King also analyzed “white backlash” not as an insurgency responding to proximate political factors or politicians, but as a visceral, enduring autonomous response guided by white supremacy. In other words, King used “white supremacy” in a way that might have seen him scolded today, by many who do the scolding in his name.  
The example of King is important, because a funhouse-mirror view of his philosophy tends to dominate the modern liberal view of race. King was famously conciliatory—in 1964 he refused to call Barry Goldwater “racist,” instead settling on saying the candidate “articulates a philosophy which gives aid and comfort to the racist,”  a restraint that even many modern journalists might not have—but in his late life he often dealt with the effects of that conciliation, and with an advancing conspiracy that would eventually consume him. By the time of his death, the country had turned on King. And one major driver was a concerted effort among conservatives to take “white supremacy” and flip it on its head, and to gaslight black activism.
Chait mentions that subversion, noting that “political appeals to racism had to use some level of symbolic remove” after the civil-rights movement, but his treatment doesn’t quite do justice to the musculature of the effort. The repackaging of Jim Crow into a “race neutral” set of policies didn’t just arise as a wink-and-a-nod deal in southern political backrooms a few years near the end of the civil-rights movement, but was a half-century-long project forged by thousands of lawyers and mainstream political leaders that costs millions of dollars, and was played out in every arena across the country from the Supreme Court to town hall meetings.
A recent investigation in the New York Times Magazine by Nikole Hannah-Jones illustrates how this process took shape in the court room arms race over education after 1954’s Brown v. Board, but similar neutralization occurred in housing policy, public health, criminal justice, and voting rights. Richard Rothstein’s recent book The Color of Law in particular is a primer in the ways that even the least sophisticated white political actors moved away from explicitly racist and even subtly racist justifications for their laws to escape the scrutiny of watchful courts.
Correspondingly, as new policies intersected with public opinion and genuine policy victories won by the civil-rights movement, expressing racism became gauche, and then taboo. That taboo itself crystallized a self-conceptualization of whiteness as innately anti-racist. In turn, charges of racism themselves became epithets, and the mantle of white supremacy was relegated only to the ranks of those white folks foolish or ideological enough not to abide by the taboo. As both Chait and Drum implicitly outline in their work, now the only way to be identified as a white supremacist is to say you are one.
It goes without saying that this realignment almost exclusively benefitted white supremacists, who did not suddenly die with the passage of the Voting Rights Act. In no small bit of class warfare, whites who most often carried out direct violence in white supremacy’s name took the heat, giving space to the white men in suits who did their work quietly with litigation and city-planning maps. Those people of color who critiqued white supremacy were cemented as malcontents and agitators, themselves racists or “race-baiters” who sought to exploit white guilt to upend American racial harmony.
The development of critical race theory and its definition of white supremacy strike me as a reaction against that post-King status quo. The idea of “white privilege” came about not as a mid-aughts term for Tumblr teens, but during that reaction as a way to identify the latent benefits of white supremacy during a time when white liberals, moderates, and conservatives alike promoted a fiction of progress that denied their collective benefit from it, and to recover the language of responsibility lost in the mainstream with King’s death.
Additionally, calling out white supremacy and calling people white supremacists functioned as a provocation. The provocation necessarily came from a tiny, insular group of people—as the rest of the country had convinced itself that white supremacy was a grievously offensive slander. That provocation has been continued by today’s black activists, who often see themselves not as mere instruments in building big tents under the status quo, but as awakening people to the reality that the status quo is still white supremacy. Thus, their provocation appears designed to probe and assault consensus, an endeavor that always risks enraging people who are part of that consensus.
The media likewise should not be merely a mirror of consensus; rather it should challenge groupthink any time it runs up against truth. And if consensus is that white supremacy is a thing that only exists in the hate-group fringe, that claim should be held in skepticism against the reality that many of the racial outcomes—income gaps, housing and education segregation, police brutality, and incarceration—of the era of naked white supremacy persist, or have even worsened. And when it comes to Trump, or any other politician for that matter, the knee-jerk consensus reaction that a mainstream politician cannot possibly be a white supremacist should be balanced with the truth that many or most American politicians have been, and that they were voted in by real Americans, many of whom are alive, well, and voting today.
These demands are difficult to square in today’s polarized, litigious environment. But, to counter Chait, while a more expansive view of white supremacy in media’s contemplation of politics may seem to “flatten” political discourse, perhaps the difficulty here is facing the possibility that things might actually be flat. Politics might actually be trapped in the black box of white supremacy, and people very well might be on a historical treadmill, fighting the fights their parents fought, and maybe losing. If that version of reality is true, then the panic brought on by that flattened language might be justified.


At a network largely defined in the public consciousness by Tucker Carlson berating campus activists and Sean Hannity stumping for Donald Trump, Bret Baier is something of an anomaly. His nightly newscast, Special Report, is probably the closest Fox News has ever come to achieving the “fair and balanced” standard set by its original slogan.
While the show has attracted no shortage of complaints from press critics, Baier makes an effort to feature a range of Washington voices on his panels, and Special Report has become known among congressional Democrats as a (relatively) safe space at Fox—a show where they are unlikely to get ambushed with “gotcha” questions or wind up as partisan punching bags.
How Conservatives Awoke to the Dangers of Sean Hannity
But even as he dominates the cable-news ratings battle in the 6 p.m. hour—drawing nearly 2.5 million viewers on an average night—it is the primetime partisans like Hannity who continue to serve as the faces of Fox News. And while they join in Trump’s ever-escalating culture war on the press, Baier seems to identify more with the targets of the president’s wrath.
I met with Baier one morning last week at the Hyatt Regency, not far from Fox News’s D.C. bureau. Even in person, the host gives off a kind of televised vibe. He was clad in a camera-ready outfit—dark suit, crisp white shirt, cufflinks, and a flag pin—and spoke between sips of coffee in the same authoritative news-anchor voice that he employs while discussing North Korean missile tests on the air.  
Baier was careful throughout our conversation not to insult his primetime colleagues, but he seemed eager to distinguish between his work and theirs. He also discussed his yearlong struggle to book an interview with Trump, and criticized the president’s “over-the-top” attacks on the news media. “For the country,” he told me, “it’s not a good thing.” Our conversation has been edited for length and clarity.
McKay Coppins: Fox News has been defined, especially in the Trump era, by the Sean Hannitys and the Tucker Carlsons and the Fox and Friendses of the world. How does that affect your role at the network?
Bret Baier: Listen, our opinion shows are really successful and they make a lot of news. That’s what they do. But just like a newspaper splits the news side and opinion side, my job is the news side. If I can be the place where liberals and Republicans and Independents go and say, “Hey, that hour is fair,” that’s the mandate that I’ve been given.
Coppins: So, rather than pushing for a certain approach to the news within Fox, you just focus on your hour and try to tune out everything else?
Baier: I’ll give some editorial guidance for the network overall, but how the opinion shows choose to use that information is not my deal. I do think we get painted by a broad brush, and the loudest critics of Fox News are often the people who’ve never watched Fox News. I tell them, “Watch my show three nights and then send me an email and tell me what you think.” And usually the people who do it come back and say, “You’re right, you covered it fairly.”
Coppins: I want to ask you about the Seth Rich story that was retracted, the one claiming the young Democratic Party staffer who was killed had leaked internal emails to WikiLeaks. Some critics say the network owes a larger explanation for how this story happened—do you think that’s fair?
Baier: I think it’s fair for the critics to say that. We never did the story on the news side or on my show. I felt and we felt that it was necessary for the flagship news program to issue the statement [responding to a related lawsuit] on behalf of the network. How it got there, I don’t know. There’s a long investigation looking into all of that. I don’t think I can get into the details of it. But the editorial checks on my side of the house were in place.
Coppins: Do you think viewers make the distinction between the opinion side and the news side of Fox?
Baier: Well, I hope they can. We try to make that clear, and viewers that have watched Fox for a long time clearly know the difference. I think the opinion folks do amazing stuff almost all the time in terms of tapping into their point-of view and expressing that. When there’s a mistake, they deal with it. And I think on the news side of the house we’ve done a pretty good job of expressing that on behalf of the network.
Coppins: Was covering the Obama administration easier or harder than covering the Trump administration?
Baier: Even in the darkest days of the relationship between the [Obama] White House and Fox, I was still getting calls answered. We were still getting information from [former press secretaries] Jay Carney, Robert Gibbs, or whomever. What has changed is the perception that we have this buddy-buddy, chummy relationship because of the Hannitys and the Laura Ingrahams and the defenders of Donald Trump. But it has been equally hard to get, on the news side, some of that access. We’re in the same boat as every other news network when it comes to asking, pressing, trying to get interviews. It’s been a challenge to try and get President Trump to come do my show. It’s coming up on one year since I last interviewed Trump, right before the election.
Coppins:  Some people might be surprised to hear Trump’s not willing to sit down with a news anchor at Fox.
Baier: I know, isn’t that surprising? I mean, I’ve been working every week, almost two or three times a week to talk to people, meet with people, email. And I’ve seen [Trump] off the record for a number of different events. I asked him directly.
Coppins: What did he say?
Baier [attempting an impression of Trump’s voice and hand gestures]: “Oh, yeah, yeah we’ll do it. Definitely, we’re going to do it soon, really soon. Hope [referring to White House Communications Director Hope Hicks], make sure that happens.” But you know it’s sort of a delay-and-we’ll-get-to-it. Finally, I made a public appeal on the show and said it had been 300 days. I’m guessing it’s because [Trump] hasn’t done a lot of hard-news interviews. I hope he does soon. He continues to say that it’s coming but I have yet to see it materialize.
Coppins: Do you have trouble booking Democrats?
Baier: No, I haven’t. I think they appreciate the approach of the show and that a lot of people watch. It gets a lot of eyeballs. We had Hillary Clinton on a couple times. Bernie Sanders hosted a town hall before the Michigan primary.
Coppins: You’ve covered Washington for a long time—how does Trump’s attitude toward the press differ from the other presidents you’ve covered?
Baier: I mean, it’s night and day. Every administration thinks they’re getting bad press. The Bush administration did. The Obama administration thought it was getting bad press from both sides, although arguably that wasn’t the case.
The Trump administration not only complains about it behind the scenes, but the president obviously takes that case to the American people—and sometimes in a very pointed and, in my opinion, over-the-top way, which for us as journalists is very uncomfortable. It may work to fire up the base because we’re a target, we have lower approval ratings than Congress. But for doing our jobs, it’s not a good thing. And probably for the country, it’s not a good thing.
Coppins: When he does things like calling the press “enemies of the American people,” does that concern you?
Baier: Of course it does. Now on the flip side, I will tell you that there have been stories by some organizations where they’ve gotten over their skis. I mean, they’re clearly advocating [against Trump] and not covering [him]. Every time one of those stories happens, it gives ammunition to the president and the people to say it’s all fake news.
Coppins: Fox News often holds itself up as the one outlet with its finger on the pulse of the heartland. How many of your colleagues at Fox saw Trump’s victory coming?
Baier: One: Sean Hannity. Seriously. Maybe two—Laura Ingraham, she was always convinced he was going to win. Most people inside the Fox building believed that Hillary Clinton was going to pull it out. Sean Hannity and Laura Ingraham really, truly believed that the country was in a different place. I used to say to Sean, “Really? You think that’s going to happen?” And then I took Uber like 22 times and the drivers were from every ethnicity, around the country. I said, “Listen, you don’t have to tell me, but if you want to tell me, who are you voting for?” And 21 out of 22 people said they were voting for Trump. Every ethnicity! And I said, “This is a moment, you know. This is something that we’re not seeing.” The media missed that.
Coppins: Including you?
Baier: I would include myself. I think we covered it effectively. We covered the anger, we covered the thoughts [that voters had] that both sides suck, and [they wanted to] kick the table over, and something’s got to work better than this. And that’s what happened.
Coppins: How have you accounted for the changing conservative landscape as you’ve assembled the panel each night for your show?  
Baier: I try to be balanced in how I book it, but in this landscape, it’s not just left and right. It’s left, right, and Trump. I’ve had to rotate some different people in. Laura Ingraham had been on my show a lot more, as she sort of balanced out my panel from the Trump side. I think that may have led to [her recently announced] 10 p.m. show. I don’t know.
Coppins: During the Obama administration, there were efforts to freeze out Fox News, but for the most part the White House press corps pushed back on that. Do you think your network has shown the same kind of solidarity with President Trump’s favorite punching bags in the media?
Baier: From my perspective, the news side—when there’s been a pushback on those kinds of things like interviews, access—we’ve been fighting along with the White House Correspondents Association for that, even if it wasn’t us. Now, opinion shows clearly have different takes and a loud megaphone, and they had a different stance.
Coppins: With the primetime opinion shows in general, it feels like the media-bashing has been ratcheted up this past year. When you watch this stuff, does it upset you at all as a news guy? I think you know that most journalists are coming from an honest place. Does it bother you to see this stuff?
Baier: Of course it does. There are some times, just like I said, there are organizations that have gone over their skis; there are [Fox] opinion shows that have gone over their skis about that media criticism. Yeah, sometimes you cringe as somebody who covers [the news] alongside other colleagues in Washington.
But I think you can point to other networks where they have opinion shows that say some pretty outlandish stuff, too, at times. There’s not a lot of love out there for the media in the country, but for the most part [journalists] are just trying to do their job. What I know is most [journalists] are pretty good people, and when they make a mistake the perception I know is that they’re jumped on for that.
Coppins: What most concerns you about what this administration is doing when it comes to press freedom?
Baier: What most concerns me is when they were thinking about doing away with the White House briefings, and then they did them off camera. I thought that was a trend that was heading in the wrong direction. I was advocating always that the briefing is key for all sides to be able to ask questions. And I think [Press Secretary] Sarah Huckabee Sanders has done a good job at trying to be accessible.
Coppins: You talked recently on Fox News about the controversy over NFL players kneeling during the national anthem to protest police brutality. This president seems especially attuned to the culture war, and he knows what he’s doing. He knows what his base wants; he knows these things are going to get attention; he knows it’s going to drive news cycles. As a reporter, how do you view your role in covering these culture-war provocations?
Baier: I think you have to cover them on their face: what it is, what he’s saying, what people react to. But then you have to have, ideally, analysis of what may be behind it—“Look at the shiny thing over here!” I remember thinking during the campaign that [Trump] was throwing out a giant hook and we were fish he was trying to lure to get a day of coverage on whatever the issue was. And it was true! He steered the media a number of days. It still happens, where people’s heads explode about something he said. But I think our job is to cut through that and to say, “Here’s what else is happening.” [To say,] “This may be why he’s doing this: He lost in Alabama; he’s losing health care; he’s not exactly in a great place with North Korea. There’s a number of big things that he really doesn’t want to focus on.”
Coppins: One of the big things it seems Trump often tries to distract from is the ongoing Russia investigation. Do you think that Fox has covered the news aggressively enough? Have you guys broken enough news on that?
Baier: I would like to break more, but I want it to be accurate news. There have been a lot of things that have petered out, that turned out not to be accurate. And sometimes the anonymous sourcing [that other outlets use] seems to be not as strong. I’d rather take our time and be right, but I would like to break some more news.
Coppins: Fox should have some of the best sources in this administration, right? It seems like you could be breaking a lot of news related to the investigation if it was a priority.  
Baier: I think it’s going to get to a more fevered pitch soon. It seems like things are coming to a head, and there’s a sense on the Hill that there are going to be some indictments. We want to make sure we’re on top of it, and every morning meeting it’s on a checklist of what we’re covering that day. And we haven’t shied away from doing the story. That said, the original charge and some of the really heated rhetoric about it I don’t think has panned out as of yet. Clearly, [Independent Counsel Robert] Mueller’s onto something, and he’s doing interviews I think this week with White House officials, so we may be hearing more about that.
Coppins: What’s next for you? Do you think you’re going to be doing this until you retire?
Baier: I don’t know if I’m going to be doing it until I retire. I know I’m going to be doing it through 2020.
I think for all the challenges that Fox has had in the past year—and I’m not going to sugarcoat it, it’s been a tough year—it’s remained No. 1 even through the toughest times. This is a channel that didn’t change anything for 15 years—we had the same lineup. I think we’re hitting our stride, and there’s a lot of optimism inside the walls. It’s not just talk—you really feel it. They’ve told me the resources are there to expand our news operations. That makes me happy because Washington is the center of the news universe.


Updated on October 6 at 4:13 p.m.
A devastating New York Times story on Thursday, outlining a long history of sexual-harassment accusations about film mogul Harvey Weinstein, raises a series of difficult questions—for Weinstein; for the colleagues and employees around him; and for the film business writ large.
But it also poses awkward questions for the Democratic Party, for which Weinstein has been a prolific fundraiser and donor. Weinstein has written many checks over the years, hosted fundraisers for Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, and rubbed elbows with leading Democrats. The accusations against him come at a time when American society is somewhat less tolerant of such behavior by powerful men, but also when the president of the United States has been recorded boasting privately about committing sexual assaults, in an incident that brought widespread Democratic condemnation.
As Sonny Bunch of the Washington Free Beacon writes, Weinstein’s statement in reaction to the Times story essentially reads as a series of signals pleading with progressives to give him a pass because he’s one of them: He cites Jay-Z’s soul-baring 4:44, trumpets work on an anti-Trump film, and promises to take on the National Rifle Association. (Jay-Z admitted to marital infidelity, not sexual harassment.)
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
Weinstein’s fundraising and giving on behalf of Democrats began in the early 1990s, when he gave to Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont, former Representative Joe Kennedy, and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which supports Democrats running for the U.S. House. Since then, his list of recipients reads like a who’s who of prominent Democrats: Senators Barbara Boxer, Tom Harkin, Chris Dodd, Chuck Schumer, Dick Durbin. His contributions span the party’s ideological breadth, from strong progressives like Elizabeth Warren and Rosa DeLauro to centrist Democrats like Erskine Bowles and Rahm Emanuel. They include party institutions like Russ Feingold and candidates who lost their races, like insurgent 2006 Connecticut Senate hopeful Ned Lamont.
On Thursday, Leahy also became the first Democrat to return or give away a donation, saying he would give to charity $2,700 that Weinstein has donated to his reelection effort. On Friday, the Democratic National Committee called the allegations against Weinstein “deeply troubling” and said it would donate more than $30,000 in donations from the mogul to EMILY’s List, Emerge America, and Higher Heights, organizations that support progressive women candidates.
All told, the website Political Moneyline, drawing from FEC records, finds more than $660,000 in donations to Democratic causes and candidates. The largest recipients of his largesse have been the Democratic National Committee and the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, each of which has received more than $100,000. (Under federal law, committees can accept much greater amounts than individual candidates.) He also gave $50,000 to the liberal group MoveOn in 2004.
Over her career as a candidate for both the U.S. Senate and the presidency, Hillary Clinton received $17,400 from Weinstein. Schumer, who like Clinton hails from Weinstein’s home state of New York, received $16,200. “Senator Schumer is donating all of the contributions to several charities supporting women,” a spokesman said. Clinton did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Weinstein donated $5,200 to Alison Lundergan Grimes, who was the Democratic nominee for Senate in Kentucky in 2014. One of Grimes’s rivals for the nomination was Ashley Judd, the actress and Kentucky native, who is one of the women who reported on Weinstein’s abuse. “Women have been talking about Harvey amongst ourselves for a long time, and it’s simply beyond time to have the conversation publicly,” she told the Times. (Grimes ultimately lost the general election to Mitch McConnell.)
Among possible 2020 candidates on the Democratic slate, Warren took in $5,000 from Weinstein. Senator Al Franken of Minnesota took in $10,000. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey received $7,800. Kirsten Gillibrand, another New Yorker and a prominent advocate for stronger sexual-assault laws in the military and on campus, has received $9,800 from Weinstein.
Yet these numbers on their own do not tell the full story of Weinstein’s impact on the Democratic Party. While federal laws cap individual donations, a powerful figure with a large rolodex like Weinstein’s has the power to bring more money in by organizing star-studded fundraisers.
In October 2016, Weinstein co-produced a fundraiser at Broadway’s St. James Theatre, emceed by Billy Crystal and streamed online. Performers included Lin-Manuel Miranda, Sarah Jessica Parker, and Lena Dunham. A Weinstein-hosted June 2016 fundraiser made headlines for the strict no-social-media rules reportedly set for performers. The cost of attendance was reportedly $33,000.
Weinstein also raised money for President Barack Obama. In August 2011, Obama spoke at a $35,800 per guest dinner at Weinstein’s West Village home. In February 2012, Weinstein was one of several co-hosts for a $10,000 per plate fundraiser in New York City. Several months later, in August 2012, he hosted a $35,800 per head fundraiser at his home in Connecticut. In 2013, Obama was back at Weinstein’s house for another fundraiser, during which he praised Weinstein’s films. Malia Obama, Obama’s eldest daughter, interned for Weinstein this year. A spokesman for Obama declined to comment on the allegations.
But Weinstein wasn’t always so pro-Obama. In 2008, he was a staunch Hillary Clinton backer during the acrimonious Democratic primary. During that cycle, the Democratic National Committee docked Michigan and Florida delegates for trying to jump the queue in scheduling primaries—a move that hurt Clinton’s chances against Obama. CNN reported that Weinstein threatened then-Speaker Nancy Pelosi, saying he would not give to congressional Democrats unless Pelosi backed a plan to hold revotes in those two states. Weinstein confirmed his pressure in a statement to Nikki Finke, but Pelosi did not budge and Obama won the primary. Notably, Pelosi does not appear on the list of candidates to whom Weinstein has given, though he did give to the DCCC after the clash.
In 2012, while guest-hosting Piers Morgan’s CNN show, Weinstein yukked it up with former President Bill Clinton, himself the subject of sexual-harassment claims. A request for comment from Clinton was not immediately answered.
“The Democratic party condemns all forms of sexual harassment and assault,” Xochitl Hinojosa, the communications director for he Democratic National Committee, said in a statement Friday. “We hope that Republicans will do the same as we mark one year since the release of a tape showing President Trump bragging about sexually assaulting women followed by more than a dozen women who came forward to detail similar experiences of assault and harassment. “
BuzzFeed reported that Anita Dunn, who served as White House communications director under Obama, and Lanny Davis, a former attorney to Bill Clinton and frequent crisis-communications consultant, were both advising Weinstein.
The litany of accusations against Weinstein laid out in Thursday’s Times story is reminiscent of the similar accusations made against Donald Trump in Times stories before the election. Both stories record a catalog of behavior, similar in type, over the course of several decades, and the reports come from women who did not know each or know of each other’s accusations. The Trump case showed new willingness to speak out about abuses, but his success showed that such accusations, even when multiple and even buttressed by the tape in which Trump boasted that as a famous person he could sexually assault women without consequence, could not prevent his election.
Weinstein, in his reaction to the Times story, seems to be taking a Trumpian stance of defiance. In part, Trump deflected attention by discussing Bill Clinton’s own misdeeds, including his acknowledged affairs and other accusations. The Weinstein story could prove a clarifying moment about the tolerance for sexual harassment by powerful men in America, both in the Democratic Party and in American culture overall.


Top congressional Republicans said they were open to reviewing rules on bump stocks, which investigators said were used by the Las Vegas gunman. Shortly after, in a rare move, the National Rifle Association backed “additional regulations” on the devices. The Justice Department issued a memo reversing an Obama-era policy banning transgender discrimination in the workplace. The House approved its 2018 budget resolution, the first step on the way to passing tax reform. President Trump reportedly plans to “decertify” the Iran Deal next week.
Mind the Gap: A report from the Pew Research Center found that the divide between Republicans and Democrats widened significantly during Donald Trump’s first year as president. (Clare Foran)
Fake News: President Trump’s suggestion that the Senate Intelligence Committee investigate news outlets demonstrates his interest in censoring the press. (David A. Graham)
The Power of Prayer: Often in the aftermath of mass shootings and other disasters, Americans offer “thoughts and prayers” to the victims. But do they help? (Ben Rowen)
‘Death at Penn State’: In our November issue, Caitlin Flanagan tells the story of Penn State student Tim Piazza, a young fraternity pledge who fell victim to America’s college hazing culture.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

The Most Serious Breach in Years: Russian hackers reportedly “stole details of how the U.S. penetrates foreign computer networks and defends against cyberattacks” from a government contractor’s home computer. (Gordon Lubold and Shane Harris, The Wall Street Journal)
Only One Option: Bret Stephens argues that liberals and gun-control advocates need to stop advocating for “common sense” gun laws, and start pushing for the only real solution to gun violence: repealing the Second Amendment. (The New York Times)
Choosing a Target: Stephen Paddock, the gunman who opened fired on concertgoers in Las Vegas on Sunday, appears to have considered attacks at other concert venues, like Lollapalooza. (Ken Ritter, Michael Balsamo, and Sadie Gurman, Associated Press)
Roy Comes to Town: Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore’s unconventional visit to Washington on Wednesday was more than awkward: It highlighted the hard-right revolution that could be facing establishment incumbents next year. (Sean Sullivan, The Washington Post)
Who Visited Trump at Mar-a-Lago?: There’s no way to know, because the Secret Service has “no system for keeping track.” (Josh Gerstein, Politico)
‘Sexualized and Diminished’: The New York Times reports that Harvey Weinstein, a Hollywood producer and Democratic donor, has been accused of sexual harassment and unwanted physical contact by several employees, and has reached at least eight settlements with women. (Jodi Kantor and Megan Twohey)
‘A landscaper’s ‘hire American’ plan ended with bringing in Mexican workers to finish the job’
by The Washington Post’s Tracy Jan
President Trump has promised to limit legal immigration—an undertaking that would affect employers and workers alike. Jan’s story provides a glimpse into the “complex relationship” the two parties share in this detailed account of an employer in the U.S. struggling to find Americans to do work and relying on temporary foreign workers.
—Assistant editor Priscilla Alvarez
What Is a Bump Stock?: Authorities say the Las Vegas shooter had 12 rifles in his hotel room that were equipped with an attachment to increase the rate of fire. Here’s how it works. (The New York Times)
After the deadly protests in Charlottesville, Virginia, in August, we asked you to share what you read to keep things in perspective and make sense of uncertain times. We return to that question this week in light of the mass shooting in Las Vegas: What books or readings do you turn to for comfort and reflection?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


Nothing has come easily for Republicans in this, their first year of full power in Washington.
The party’s struggles have extended well beyond its failure to repeal the Affordable Care Act, jeopardizing an annual congressional responsibility that the GOP once relished: passing a budget. House Republicans finally approved their $4.1 trillion fiscal 2018 blueprint on Thursday—nearly six months late and over the defections of 18 of their members.
Unlike past years, the importance of the House GOP budget is not its proposed overhaul of Medicare and Medicaid, or even the trillions of dollars in cuts it envisions for federal spending. Those ideas likely won’t make their way into law. But by clearing the resolution on a party-line 219-206 vote, Republicans took the first necessary step toward their ultimate goal of enacting an ambitious tax-reform plan by the end of the year. The budget again unlocks the procedure known as reconciliation that could allow the GOP to rewrite the tax code without having to overcome a Democratic filibuster in the Senate. It’s the same process Republicans have tried—without success so far—to use to repeal and replace Obamacare.
The Political Land Mine in the Republican Tax Plan
“We haven’t reformed this tax system since 1986,” Speaker Paul Ryan said shortly before the vote. “We need to pass this budget so we can help bring more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks for people across this country.  
“The time for this is now. The opportunity is right in front of us.”
Ryan and senior Republicans have been making that same argument to rank-and-file lawmakers for months, urging them to support a measure that in many respects is similar to budgets the House majority has approved in the past (including four written by Ryan himself). But the votes for this plan, which was authored by Budget Committee Chairwoman Diane Black of Tennessee, only came together in the last week after party leaders and the White House unveiled their framework for tax reform. Distrusting the leadership, conservatives in the House Freedom Caucus had demanded details on the tax plan before supporting a budget that would move it forward. “Once you open up the door, you can’t close it. So you’d kind of like to know what’s on the other side before you open it,” Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, a leader in the Freedom Caucus, told me over the summer.
Ryan and Black needed the Freedom Caucus because they were hemorrhaging support for the budget at the other end of the GOP conference, among moderate members who balked at an additional $200 billion in cuts to mandatory spending programs, such as food stamps, that were included to placate conservatives. In the vote on Thursday, the bulk of the GOP opposition came from representatives in three northeastern states: New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.
Those defections could be an ominous sign for tax reform. Criticism from Republicans in high-tax states is already threatening the proposed repeal of the state and local tax deduction, a $1.4 trillion change that party leaders are pushing as a way to pay for the cost of reducing tax rates on individuals and businesses. But keeping the popular and expensive deduction could risk losing the support of other Republicans, particularly those who are adamant about not adding to the deficit.
Before the GOP can get to a tax bill, however, it must first pass its budget through both the House and the Senate. The Senate Budget Committee was expected to approve its own proposal later on Thursday, setting up a floor vote in mid-October after a week-long recess. The Senate’s version would allow for up to $1.5 trillion in tax cuts over a decade but does not call for the same spending cuts as in the House. The two chambers will have to reconcile their differences on the budget in a conference committee, the success of which will be another important marker in the tax-reform effort.
All the while, Republicans must fend off criticism from Democrats who have denounced their tax and budget plans as gifts to the wealthy at the expense of the middle class. “For anyone who isn’t a millionaire, this budget is a slap in the face,” Representative John Yarmuth of Kentucky, the Democrats’s point person on the budget, said in a floor speech. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi called the plan “miserable, deceptive, [and] horrible” while she critiqued its rosy assumptions for economic growth.
House Republicans overcame those attacks on Thursday, endorsing the party budget as a means to tax reform. But procedural hurdles and substantive disagreements still lie ahead, and achieving the kind of landmark legislative victory on taxes that eluded them on health care remains a long way off.


The Department of Justice has issued a new memo on transgender workplace rights, arguing that a major civil-rights law does not cover discrimination on the basis of gender identity.
The memo, first reported by BuzzFeed News, officially withdraws a 2014 memo sent out by then-Attorney General Eric Holder on this issue, reversing the position the Obama administration took late into the former president’s second term. This is the latest in a series of moves by the DOJ to undo Obama-era policies on LGBT rights—and one more step toward a possible showdown over gender identity and sexual orientation at the high court. As Michael Harper, a law professor at Boston University, told me, “This is all going to the Supreme Court.”
Trump's Battle Over LGBT Discrimination Is Just Beginning
The memo, sent out to U.S. attorneys and the heads of federal agencies, concerns the administration’s position on Title VII, the civil-rights statute that outlaws certain kinds of workplace discrimination.  For nearly three decades, courts have been arguing over the definition of sex discrimination, which Title VII and other statutes prohibit. Particularly in recent years, some legal advocates—and government agencies—have argued that discrimination on the basis of sex includes bias against transgender people. Their claim is that discrimination against transgender people solely based on their gender identity is a form of sex stereotyping, which the Supreme Court has long ruled impermissible.
This is the position the Obama administration took in 2014, when Holder released a memo stating that the Department of Justice would no longer argue that gender-identity-based workplace-discrimination claims weren’t covered by Title VII. “Although Congress may not have had such claims in mind when it enacted Title VII,” Holder wrote, “the Supreme Court has made clear that Title VII must be interpreted according to its plain text.” On his reading, the statute could rightfully include discrimination against someone simply because the person is transgender.
This position, however, is controversial. Opponents have argued that the text of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 does not explicitly include gender identity, and the government cannot enforce the law that way. This is the line Sessions took in his new memo. “‘Sex’ is ordinarily defined to mean biologically male or female,” he wrote. “Although Title VII provides various protections to transgender individuals, Title VII does not prohibit discrimination based on gender identity per se.” Based on this reasoning, Sessions has withdrawn Holder’s previous memo, noting that this is the position the DOJ will take in “all pending and future matters.”
“The Department of Justice cannot expand the law beyond what Congress has provided,” wrote Devin O’Malley, a DOJ spokesman, in an email. “Unfortunately, the last administration abandoned that fundamental principle, which necessitated today’s action.”
As it turns out, a lot of cases on this topic currently are pending. A number of high-profile cases deal with Title VII and discrimination based on sexual orientation, including a case about a skydiver recently heard before the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. The Trump administration filed a brief in that case as well, asserting a similar position: It does not see Title VII as prohibiting discrimination against gays and lesbians based on their sexual orientation.
Legal advocates on both sides tend to present the interpretation of sex discrimination under Title VII as a black-and-white issue. “They’re starting from different policy views, and when people are strongly committed to a policy view, they put a gloss on words that are more ambiguous,” said Harper. Sessions stated in his memo that the change is “a conclusion of law, not policy,” arguing that his is simply the straightforward interpretation of the statute.
The National Center for Transgender Equality and other advocacy groups, on the other hand, claim the opposite: Theirs is the correct interpretation of the law. “According to Sessions, an employer is free to hang a ‘Transgender Need Not Apply’ sign in their window,” wrote the executive director, Mara Keisling, in an emailed statement. “Fortunately, he is dead wrong on the law.”
This divide is reflected in the courts, which are split on the question of whether sex discrimination covers sexual orientation. Eventually, “the interpretation of Title VII will be decided by the Supreme Court,” Harper said.
Until the right case successfully petitions the court, however, the Department of Justice may weigh in on a number of pending matters. Sessions’s letter states that “the Justice Department must and will continue to affirm the dignity of all people, including transgender individuals.” Nothing in the memo should be interpreted as “[condoning] mistreatment on the basis of gender identity,” it goes on, and notes that transgender individuals are protected under federal hate-crime statutes. If someone is fired for being transgender, however, the Department of Justice likely won’t help.


Frustrated with a set of damning reports about his relationship with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson—including the nugget that Tillerson called him a “moron” (perhaps with an R-rated modifier)—the president offered a new suggestion on Twitter Thursday morning: Why not explore government censorship of the press?
Why Isn't the Senate Intel Committee looking into the Fake News Networks in OUR country to see why so much of our news is just made up-FAKE!
Trump had been relatively quiet on Twitter for a few days, following the massacre in Las Vegas and his trip to hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico, but the Tillerson stories on Wednesday set off a new tirade of tweets against the press. Most of them are the standard “Fake news!” variety—never mind that there have been stories of Trump-Tillerson tension for months, and that multiple outlets have confirmed the “moron” anecdote—but the president is calling for something different here. He is suggesting that the Senate bring its investigative powers to bear on news reports that are, from all indications save Tillerson’s non-denial denial, entirely accurate.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
The idea of an Intelligence Committee investigation seems to spring from an already-existing inquiry by the committee into Russian interference in the election, which has in recent weeks focused intensely on the role of Facebook as a medium for divisive advertisements and events designed to influence American politics, allegedly placed by Russian actors. Trump has said that this investigation, like others into Russian interference in the 2016 election, is an attempt to undermine the legitimacy of his victory.
In short, Trump is expressing an interest in censoring the American free press. As usual, it’s hard to tell how serious Trump is—viewed amid the barrage of fake-news tweets, it may just be an off-the-cuff riff. (Earlier this week, Trump said in an interview that Puerto Rico’s debt would need to be erased, leading the White House to say he didn’t really mean it.) If made in that spirit, it’s striking that the president casually and carelessly suggests infringing on constitutional protections.
Yet this is not the first time he has worked to undermine the free press. He has attacked reporters personally and en masse; he has incited crowds against them; he has accused reporters (with no evidence, of course) of sedition; and he has said he wants to change libel laws to make it easier to sue news outlets for misstatements. Less consequentially, though for some reason to greater attention, he has passed along memes of cartoonish violence against the outlets.
Trump’s focus on a few outlets, especially NBC News, CNN, and The New York Times, suggests he is interested not in across-the-board censorship so much as targeted persecution of those organizations that he feels are making his life difficult. The good news is there’s no reason at this moment to believe that the Senate Intelligence Committee would take up Trump’s invitation, but it’s hard to simply dismiss it. Trump has successfully pushed for bogus inquiries in the past, as when he accused President Obama of “wiretapping” him and then demanded his evidence-free allegation be investigated. The Justice Department concluded there was no evidence to support the claim.
Trump is likely the most media-obsessed president in American history, and has long recognized and exploited its power to assist him, but he cleverly latched onto a decades-long conservative campaign to undermine the press. (Some of the same conservative commentators and outlets who helped drive that campaign watched with dismay as Trump capitalized on distrust to upend longstanding norms.) But Trump’s frustration with the press has grown, and his bitterness now seems genuine. While the media’s approval ratings have long been lodged in the basement, a Reuters poll this week showed that as confidence in the administration has sunk, confidence in the press has risen—jumping from 39 to 48 percent since November.
Even so, freedom of the press is in a beleaguered state. Not only have traditional economic models crumbled, but public support for the underlying venture is low.  In March, just a third of respondents told Gallup they trust the press, and six in 10 Americans said the press was biased. In April, a plurality of respondents told YouGov that the media abuse First Amendment rights. Forty percent of Millennials support censorship of hate speech. And three-quarters of people in a Newseum poll said that “fake news” should not be protected by the First Amendment. Meanwhile, courts—responding to lawsuits funded by Trump’s friend and backer Peter Thiel—have proven newly willing to punish outlets for publishing even accurate information.
The problem is that it’s much easier to say that fake news shouldn’t be allowed than to actually do something about it. (This is a recurring theme with Trump’s policy ideas.) Any effort to do so almost inevitably ends with the government singling out specific outlets, and from there it’s a slippery slope to wider-ranging censorship. How would an investigation proceed? It would require, for example, large-scale subpoenas to journalists to figure out who their sources were. The targets of such requests would, in most cases, refuse, even if imprisoned.
Prosecutors have on occasion demanded that reporters divulge anonymous sources, and reporters have often refused, but those requests have been narrowly focused on specific cases, in part because the U.S. justice system has recognized that broader use would chill press freedom. (Many journalists would argue strongly that the narrow requests do too.)
This slippery slope is why  Trump’s conflation of actual, fictitious news designed to mislead with reporting he simply doesn’t like is clever, and it is the genius of the Russian propaganda operation designed to influence U.S. politics. While the full scope of Russian efforts remains unclear—both the Senate Intelligence Committee and special counsel Robert Mueller are investigating that question—outlets like RT and Sputnik are effective because they take advantage of the U.S. system in order to undermine it. These outlets present themselves as reputable news organizations—sometimes with a slant, but what news organization doesn’t have one?—and take advantage of protections on the free press.
Neither the misinformation industry, whether for propaganda or profit, nor Russian efforts to meddle end with news outlets. They also extend to Facebook advertisements and events. The Senate Intelligence Committee is investigating Facebook, which raises its own questions about government interference in the press, because although Facebook says it is not a media outlet, the contemporary press is highly dependent on Facebook as a distribution method.
Spurious news organizations like those sponsored by the Russian government serve to set a trap: If allowed to operate, these outlets can serve as tools of propaganda. And when investigated, it creates the awkward impression that press freedom is either false or selective—which, of course, serves a propaganda purpose as well. What is unusual is that in this case, the president of the United States is either wittingly or unwittingly assisting.


Disagreement among Republican and Democratic voters on a range of political issues has risen sharply in recent years, a political divide that intensified during the first year of President Trump’s administration, according to a new report from the Pew Research Center.
“The divisions between Republicans and Democrats on fundamental political values—on government, race, immigration, national security, environmental protection, and other areas—reached record levels during Barack Obama’s presidency,” Pew’s report states. “In Donald Trump’s first year as president, these gaps have grown even larger.”
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
Since the widening of the partisan opinion gap is a continuation of a trend, Trump’s presidency hasn’t ushered in a new era of intense political polarization so much as it marks a new chapter in an increasingly polarized political time. Public opinion remains more divided along partisan lines than along the lines of race, religion, age, gender, and educational background, Pew finds.
As the country’s partisan divide has increased in recent years, hostility between Republicans and Democrats has remained high. Perhaps surprisingly, Pew’s data shows a slight decline in the share of Democrats and Republicans who say they have a “very unfavorable” view of the opposing party relative to one year ago. Overall, though, the numbers don’t represent a major change, and aren’t enough on their own to say that partisan hostilities are lessening. The vast majority of Republicans and Democrats, at 81 percent for both parties, say they have an unfavorable view of the other side in the latest report.  
America’s partisan divergence reaches beyond the realm of political debate in Washington. Pew data indicates that Republicans prefer to live in rural areas, while Democrats prefer urban living. Sixty-five percent of Republicans say they would rather live in communities where “houses are larger and farther apart” and “schools, stores, and restaurants are several miles away.” In contrast, 61 percent of Democrats said they would prefer to live in a place where the homes are smaller and more densely packed into neighborhoods, and stores, schools, and restaurants are in walking distance.
“What it shows is that even things that are ostensibly not about politics are still subject to political divides,” Jocelyn Kiley, an associate director of research at Pew, said in an interview. “That reflects a lot about the state of the American political landscape right now.”
Those preferences line up with the urban-rural divide that showed up in the results of the 2016 presidential election. Fifty-nine percent of voters who lived in a city with a population greater than 50,000 people voted for Hillary Clinton, while 62 percent of voters who lived in a small city or rural area pulled the lever for Donald Trump, according to exit polls from the presidential election.
The fact that even living preferences have taken on a partisan dimension helps explain another aspect of America’s highly partisan political environment. It’s common for Democrats and Republicans to have social circles filled with people who share their own political beliefs. Sixty-seven percent of Democrats say that a lot of their close friends are also Democrats, while 57 percent of Republican voters surround themselves with Republican friends, Pew’s survey conducted in August 2017 shows. That inevitably diminishes the likelihood that people will have their partisan viewpoints challenged in any kind of meaningful way in their day-to-day lives.  
The more that Americans’ social lives and identity become intertwined with partisan beliefs, the more pressure people will face to adopt partisan viewpoints rather than risk alienating close friends and their broader social network. That dynamic is likely one reason why Gallup found in 2015 that college-educated Republicans were more likely than less educated Republicans to say that the threat of global warming has been exaggerated, despite warnings from the scientific community that the harmful impacts of climate change are already underway.
Trump himself has a track record of climate denial, and it is possible that his own defiance of the scientific consensus will intensify skepticism among some Republican voters. Prior to taking office as president, Trump called global warming a “hoax.” After the administration announced it would withdraw from the Paris climate accord, the White House sidestepped questions over whether the president continues to think climate change is a hoax.
Pew’s latest report suggests that kind of rhetoric may have had an impact on Republican voters who support the president. Among Republicans, voters who strongly approve of Trump were also the most likely to say that there is no solid evidence of global warming, while Republicans who disapprove of the president were the most likely to say there is solid evidence. Eighty-eight percent of Republicans who disapprove of the president said there is solid evidence for global warming, while 57 percent of Republicans who “very strongly” support Trump said there is not.
As long as Republicans and Democrats continue to cluster geographically across the country and surround themselves with like-minded partisans, it’s likely that the partisan divide will remain as entrenched as ever.  


Seven years ago, my brother Andrew began traveling around the United States, seeking out historic sites that were already memorialized—that is, clearly marked. But he soon discovered that some of the most interesting places of memory had no sign, no marker, no candlelit vigil. They remained unmarked. Andrew is a photographer; I’m a historian. We see the world through different lenses. But we both understood that just as people make their own history, they also make their own memory-practices. Some of the most powerful photographs in the book that our collaboration produced—Marked, Unmarked, Remembered—capture the collective efforts of individuals and communities to refuse to let memory rest or disappear.
Such active forms of commemoration come in many guises. It might be a contemplative moment of a former internee visiting a Japanese American internment camp from World War Two. Or the insistence of West Virginia coal miners that their community, and not the coal company responsible for the deaths of their fellow miners, should commemorate their fallen comrades. Another example is the impromptu memorial to Mike Brown thrown up like a revolutionary barricade on the streets of Ferguson.
The photographs here of the annual prayer for those who perished in the Middle Passage; of Juneteenth, the celebration of Texas slave emancipation in Galveston; and of Jesse Washington’s descendants’ demand for recognition on the 2016 centenary of his horrific lynching in Waco, Texas, all represent instances of the active, forceful, and insistent practice of remembering that marks, in these instances, the African American past. They serve as a reminder that memory is not just an internal process, but one that takes place in the world, and thus may provide hope and possibility while acknowledging a painful history. Erected with a purpose in mind, monuments and memorials remain mute and inert until imbued with meaning by human beings.
Of course, other images here capture how both marked and unmarked places remain open to multiple meanings; memory-making is an ongoing struggle. The city of Montgomery, Alabama, has dedicated a bus bench to Rosa Parks. But one photograph here shows Confederate reenactors, perhaps inadvertently, resting there. The statue once honoring the perpetrator of the 1637 massacre of Pequot Indians in Mystic, Connecticut, has been removed from its resting place and relocated, at the demand of the Pequot Tribal Council. Do people still remember what once marked this now unmarked site, and why? And the location of a notorious 1911 Oklahoma lynching, long forgotten—at least by the community’s white residents—has been remarked by racist graffiti. There is no way to know if this ghostly reminder of white supremacy represents a deep social amnesia or, more sinisterly, the recurrence of a covert memory.
We’ve been asked if the election of President Trump changed anything about this project. But the truth is, it’s the ghost of President Obama that hovers over this book. Many Americans took his election to mark an apotheosis of the long struggle for civil rights, and an apparent triumph over some of the more traumatic aspects of the American past. Yet that moment also led many to draw a line under the past. Such complacency, it turns out, was unwarranted. One of our aims in this project was to challenge the idea of a “post-racial” United States. The past does not vanish, even or especially when it is marked in stone; remembering and reckoning with it remains as urgent as ever.

This article has been adapted from Alex and Andrew Lichtenstein’s recently released book, Marked, Unmarked, Remembered: A Geography of American Memory.


PHILADELPHIA—The rolling green lawn, jungle gym, and quaint public library inside McPherson Square in the city’s Kensington neighborhood attracts both families from the neighborhood and people from across the country with opioid addictions. The small park, like the streets around it, has become a destination for so-called “drug tourists” in recent years, drawn by the plentiful supply of heroin sold here and the growing community of those addicted to it.
From her nearby stoop, 27-year-old Sherly Parede told me she regularly sees people injecting heroin in and around the park. “They usually do it in front of whoever,” she explained, though she doesn’t think her three small children have witnessed it. When they walk past someone nodding off, Parede said, “I just tell them they aren’t feeling well.”
The Progressive Civil-Rights Lawyer Philadelphia Wants for District Attorney
Lately, stakeholders in Philadelphia have contemplated whether the city could shift this drug use out of sight and into safer environs by opening clinics where people can use heroin under the supervision of trained medical staff. Similar government-run facilities are found in Canada and Europe, and officials in Seattle, New York, and San Francisco—among others—are considering opening their own. But Philadelphia’s presumptive next district attorney thinks his city could take a different route—becoming the first in the country to have privately run clinics protected by the prosecutors’ office.
Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney began weighing the prospect of city-run clinics earlier this year; he plans to send a delegation to observe an existing site this fall, likely one in Vancouver. Larry Krasner, the Democratic nominee for DA who’s expected to win his race in November, has proposed circumventing this exploratory process. After announcing his support for the clinics last month—a key victory for advocates—he told me he’d legally condone them in advance of any action from Kenney’s government.
Essentially, Krasner hopes to create an environment where private organizations can open these facilities, known as safe-injection sites, without fear of being targeted by his office. Overall, he’d rather see a community-based nonprofit run them. “In my mind, this is not a government program,” he told me, likening the sites to the needle exchanges that cropped up during the AIDS epidemic and were run by community groups. He represented one in the early 1990s.
“Individual activists and organizations come together to create a thing, and then it’s up to the government to not attack it,” Krasner continued. “A prosecutor who actually knows the criminal law would say I have the discretion to not prosecute this type of behavior.”
Krasner could face backlash from other levels of government, as well as from residents wary of actively inviting drug use into their proverbial back yard. While Kenney’s own task force on opioids recommended opening safe-injection sites, “there are serious legal, practical, and law-enforcement issues that have to be considered” beforehand, his spokeswoman told the Associated Press.
Philadelphia could be a strategic location to test the clinic model in the United States—the rates of overdose are remarkably high here, three times higher than in New York City. Advocates argue that safe-injection sites have inherent public-health benefits. Nurses and doctors are on hand to provide clean needles; monitor people; and administer naloxone, the overdose-prevention medication with the brand name Narcan. Absent these facilities, police, EMS, and other addicted people are charged with bringing overdose victims back from the brink.
Until it was cleared this summer, a notorious needle-filled encampment along Kensington’s railroad tracks was “the closest thing [Philadelphia] had to a safe-injection site,” Philadelphia Inquirer columnist Mike Newall reported. “Outreach workers supplied the users here with Narcan. They kept one another alive.” Though 75 to 100 people congregated by the tracks on any given day, only 17 of the city’s 907 fatal overdoses occurred there in 2016.
Beyond providing short-term medical intervention, Krasner said, a safe-injection site would reach people who wouldn’t typically enter rehab on their own. “The biggest benefit is that you will end up with people getting treatment because they will establish a relationship of trust with medical professionals, and with well-trained people in the recovery movement,” he said.
In Vancouver, where a safe-injection site has operated since 2003, such relationships have proven key to its success, said Ryan McNeil, a medical professor at the University of British Columbia who has conducted research at the site. “People who use drugs often don’t seek out doctors,” he said. The site has acted as a bridge to addiction services: People come to the clinic for injection supervision and get to know the staff there; in turn, the staff introduces them to treatment options.
In 14 years, 3.6 million people have gone to the Vancouver clinic. Staff members have intervened in about 6,500 overdoses and provided treatment services to nearly 50,000 people. A series of evaluations published in 2009 found that the program cut down on public injections and mitigated behavior that can spread HIV, such as needle sharing.
Still, these sites aren’t panaceas. In 2016, a record 914 people fatally overdosed in British Columbia, 25 percent of them in Vancouver itself. In Philadelphia, there’s concern that sanctioned drug use would come with considerable liabilities. “Say somebody goes to a safe-injection site, gets in a car, is driving home on I-95, and overdoses and kills a family of six,” said Patrick J. Trainor, a Drug Enforcement Agency special agent who attended opioid task-force meetings. “You can’t discuss safe-injection sites and not include that conversation.” Another concern is whether a clinic could curb the epidemic in the long term. Kensington resident Noble Bey told me he sees no problem with opening one, but doubts it would bring noticeable change. “The dealers will still be out there, dealing in front of my house,” he said. “I see it like a finger in the dike.”
There is at least one community organization interested in Krasner’s plan. Jose Benitez, the executive director of a drug harm-reduction nonprofit in Kensington, said his group would be willing to launch a site, and he suspects several others would be, too. “I think there’s definite interest in the community,” said Benitez, whose organization is called Prevention Point. But he’d want to hear from other elected officials before making any moves; his chief concern is that the site and its clients would be vulnerable regardless of Krasner’s position. “You still have a state and federal government to deal with,” he noted.
Benitez’s instincts are correct: Krasner could not prevent state and federal prosecutors from targeting the sites. Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro has not commented publicly on the idea, though he’s advocated in the past for treating addiction as a medical issue. “We will continue to monitor information on the proposal,” said his spokesman, Joe Grace.
At the federal level, it’s almost impossible to imagine Attorney General Jeff Sessions supporting drug use in any setting, given his mission to amp up the prosecution of drug crimes. However, the Justice Department has so far stayed mum in the debate over safe-injection sites, which has been going on in cities across the country for several years. “It will be very interesting to see whether they want to take their limited resources and go after idealistic doctors and activists and people who are saving lives in the name of federal drug laws,” Krasner said. (The Justice Department did not respond to a request for comment, and the Philadelphia Police Department declined to comment.)
In Seattle, city officials are banking on the Justice Department not intervening with its proposed clinics, which would be run by the local government. Asked about the prospect of federal intervention, Seattle and King County Public Health Department spokesman James Apa said that “we’re responding to a health emergency under the authority of our local health officer.” Seattle’s government has been working toward a site far longer than Philadelphia’s has, but several issues have slowed it down—like finding a community willing to host and a new ballot initiative that will allow residents to veto the plan. They’ll vote on it in February.
Philadelphia At-Large Councilman David Oh, a member of Kenney’s task force, worries about where a clinic could go in his own city, and if it would have a negative impact on the surrounding community. “While it may be beneficial to some people, it also is difficult to find a place where you could put it,” he said. Oh is waiting until the city delegation returns with more information before deciding whether to support a site.
Back in Kensington, Judy Moore, the local library’s manager, told me she would welcome a place in the neighborhood where people could inject themselves out of sight. “It gets it off the streets so all my little kiddies here don’t have to see it, plus there won’t be needles thrown around,” she said. Moore was sitting at her desk in the children’s section as a few kids read quietly at small tables nearby. “The obvious advantage is that if they overdose there is somebody right there,” she said. For a time, the library’s bathroom was a popular injection site; four people overdosed there in the past two years, though none fatally. Now all staff members are trained to administer Narcan, and they hired a bathroom monitor who keeps tabs on visitors.
Down the street, Manny Marte stood outside the unmarked door of a sober living home. Inside, his 20 housemates had started gathering in the living room for dinner. The 53-year-old kicked his decade-long heroin habit three years ago, and considers himself lucky to be alive. Many of his friends weren’t so fortunate. He told me the deaths of two close friends haunt him because he was by their side when they overdosed. “If there was a safe place we could have gone, yeah, maybe they would have made it,” he said.


President Trump, visiting Las Vegas on Wednesday, struck a solemn tone, consoling victims and celebrating the first responders in Sunday night’s massacre at a country music festival.
“Many families tonight will go to bed in a world that is suddenly empty,” Trump said. “The people they so dearly love were torn away from them forever. Our souls are stricken with grief for every American who lost a husband or a wife, a mother or a father, a son or a daughter. We know that your sorrow feels endless. we stand together to help you carry your pain. You are not alone. We will never leave your side.”
How to Tell Which Donald Trump Will Deliver a Speech
The president read carefully, and occasionally ploddingly, from prepared remarks, likely written by aides. As in his first comments on the massacre Monday morning, he used far more religious language than he has typically employed in public remarks.
“The mass murder that took place on Sunday night fills America's heart with grief,”
he said. “I visited the hospital earlier today where many victims are still recovering from their wounds. And we ask God to ease their suffering and to speed their healing.”
Trump spoke at length about the bravery of police officers who worked to stop alleged shooter Stephen Paddock and to save others at the concert.
“The example of those whose final act was to sacrifice themselves for those they loved should inspire all of us to show more love every day for the people who grace our lives,” he said.
He did not share any new information about the shooter, nor did he open up the messy question of what policy choices should emerge from the massacre.
Though Trump remains stiff in this mode, and appears to prefer speaking off-the-cuff, these were among his best moments of speaking as president. It is true that he has lowered the bar with frequent, cringeworthy comments, but his speech at Vegas stuck narrowly to unifying themes and a goal of consoling the nation. Communicating this kind of empathy is a task that has often eluded Trump, whether after violence in Charlottesville or in the wake of natural disasters.
This was particularly apparent in Trump’s disastrous appearance in Puerto Rico on Tuesday, where he appeared more interested in celebrating himself, downplayed the scope of Hurricane Maria, underestimated the death toll, and delivered a boastful digression about the F-35. Later, he was photographed tossing paper towels into a crowd at an aid-distribution center.
The idea that Trump can “become presidential” has become a deservedly mocked cliché of presidential punditry. But as in other situations, there is and will be no Trump pivot. He is not obviously growing into the role of president, as many Republicans and pundits optimistically hoped he would. Trump is Trump. The difference is simply whether he sticks to prepared remarks or prospects into murkier territory. The key Wednesday was that for Trump, what happened in Vegas stayed on script. When Trump stays on script, his remarks tend to go smoothly, even if he does not reach for the soaring oratory of a Reagan, Clinton, or Obama. When he goes off script or works without a script, it can get turbulent. (Earlier in the day, he said at the Las Vegas police department, “It could have been a whole lot worse,” which is both true and a little tone-deaf, given the scale of death.)
Perhaps it should not come as a surprise that Trump’s smooth and poised reaction in Vegas came the day after the mess in Puerto Rico. The president has established a loose pattern, on display after Charlottesville in particular, in which his more disciplined appearances are followed by improvised, sometimes sloppy ones, and vice versa.
“We struggle for the words to explain to our children how such evil can exist, how there can be such cruelty and such suffering,” Trump said Wednesday. “But we cannot be defined by the evil that threatens us or the violence that incites such terror. We are defined by our love, our caring, and courage.” Trump himself often struggles for the right words, but in Las Vegas, he found them by emphasizing love and caring.


During his visit to Las Vegas to honor the victims of Sunday’s mass shooting, Trump offered a message of unity, but refused to discuss gun policy. The FBI questioned Marilou Danley, the girlfriend of the Las Vegas gunman, Stephen Paddock. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson denied that he had ever considered resigning from his position, but stopped short of explicitly refuting a report that said he called President Trump a “moron.” His spokesman later said Tillerson did not. Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr said “the issue of collusion is still open” in the Trump-Russia investigation.
Mental Health and Mass Shootings: While politicians have called for mental-health reform in the wake of the Las Vegas shooting, experts say that improved access to treatment won’t necessarily prevent tragedies such as this one. (Olga Khazan)
What’s Happening in Puerto Rico?: To better understand the crisis in Puerto Rico, use this timeline of the events of Hurricane Maria and its aftermath. (Robinson Meyer)
‘The Point Is the Future’: Ta-Nehisi Coates argues that while civil-rights protests have never been popular during their time, they have shaped the next generation.
Announcing The Masthead: The Atlantic’s first-ever membership program, The Masthead, is now going live to the public. This brand-new platform will provide you with direct access to our best writers and thinkers, from behind-the-scenes looks at how our journalism comes together to answers for your most pressing questions about the world. Our goal is to build a closer relationship with you, in which we put our newsroom to work delivering you insights and analysis on the issues you care about most. As a founding member of The Masthead, you will not only receive some of our best journalism, written exclusively for our members; you will be directly underwriting The Atlantic’s future. Click here to join.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Zeroing In: Several of the Facebook ads purchased by Russian accounts reportedly targeted key demographic groups in Michigan and Wisconsin—two states that proved pivotal to Donald Trump’s presidential victory. (Manu Raju, Dylan Byers, and Dana Bash, CNN)
What Does Rex Think?: A spokeswoman denied that the secretary of state called President Trump a “moron,” but administration aides say, “Mr. Tillerson’s body language and terse expressions have left little doubt that he disapproves of Mr. Trump’s approach.” (Peter Baker, Maggie Haberman, and Glenn Thrush, The New York Times)
Many Problems, No Single Solution: Mass shootings have become a national symbol for gun violence, but they aren’t an accurate depiction of the real issue. More than two-thirds of American gun deaths, for example, are suicides. (Maggie Koerth-Baker, FiveThirtyEight)
‘No Way to Prevent This’: Sydney Ember writes of the enduring power of a headline published by the satirical website The Onion after mass shootings. (The New York Times)
A Losing Issue: The lawmakers preventing movement on gun regulations aren’t Republicans—they’re the red-state Democrats who stay quiet on the subject. (Josh Kraushaar, National Journal)
The Boss’s Kids: Donald Trump’s attorney, Marc Kasowitz, helped Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump Jr. avoid an indictment for “misleading potential buyers of units in Trump SoHo.” The way he did it raised a few eyebrows. (Andrea Bernstein, Jesse Eisinger, Justin Elliott, Ilya Marritz, The New Yorker)
Gun Money: In 2016, more than half of the members of the House of Representatives received campaign contributions from gun-rights groups. See how much your representative gets. (Tyler Fisher, Sarah Frostenson, and Lily Mihalik, Politico)
The American Way: In this brief video, James Fallows explains why mass shootings will continue to happen in the United States. (Daniel Lombroso and Brianna Pressey, The Atlantic)
After the deadly protests in Charlottesville, Virginia, in August, we asked you to share what you read to keep things in perspective and make sense of uncertain times. We return to that question this week in light of the mass shooting in Las Vegas: What books or readings do you turn to for comfort and reflection?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey), Lena Felton (@lenakfelton), and Taylor Hosking (@Taylor_Hosking)


Rex Tillerson’s forceful defense of President Trump, after an NBC News report said the secretary of state had called the commander-in-chief a “moron” and seriously considered quitting his job, offered few clues about his eventual fate. From Sean Spicer to Steve Bannon and Reince Priebus, it’s not uncommon for Trump’s aides to defend the president—right before being shown the door. Tillerson, the top U.S. diplomat, may be in a category by himself—but as he reminded everyone on Wednesday: He serves at the pleasure of the president.
“The vice president has never had to persuade me to remain as secretary of state, because I have never considered leaving this post,” Tillerson said in an unscheduled appearance before the media at the State Department, referring to the NBC report.
The Trouble With Rex Tillerson's Message of Unity
But multiple news reports since this summer have said Tillerson does not enjoy his job, feels undermined by Trump, and was considering resigning. If those reports were true, Tillerson was hardly going to confirm them at the State Department while insisting he was staying in his job. Instead, he offered what several officials from across administrations do when asked about rumors of impending resignation or dismissal. Tillerson’s exact words: “There’s never been a consideration in my mind to leave. I serve at the appointment of the president, and I am here for as long as the president feels I can be useful to achieving his objectives.” Tillerson was also careful to praise Trump, saying, “He loves his country. He puts Americans and America first. He’s smart. He demands results wherever he goes, and he holds those around him accountable for whether they’ve done the job he’s asked them to do.”
But Tillerson did not explicitly reject the crux of the NBC News reports—later corroborated by CNN—that he had called Trump a “moron” over the political nature of the speech the president made to an annual Boy Scouts of America gathering. The Boy Scouts apologized for the speech, because presidential addresses to the organization have previously been about service, not politics. Tillerson, a former Eagle scout, once chaired that organization.
When asked whether he would address the “moron” allegation, he replied:
I’m not going to deal with petty stuff like that. This is what I don’t understand about Washington. Again, I’m not from this place. But the places I come from, we don’t deal with that kind of petty nonsense. And it is intended to do nothing but divide people. And I’m just not going to be part of this effort to divide this administration.
Heather Nauert, the State Department’s spokeswoman, later explicitly denied Tillerson had called Trump a “moron.” She said the secretary had spoken to the president, adding there was no apology because none was needed.
Trump himself responded to the report ahead of Tillerson’s press conference, calling it “fake news” on Twitter.
The @NBCNews story has just been totally refuted by Sec. Tillerson and @VP Pence. It is #FakeNews. They should issue an apology to AMERICA!
But what the president says publicly or on Twitter about those who work for him can be at odds with their political fortunes. Trump had publicly praised Steve Bannon, Reince Priebus, Sean Spicer, and Michael Flynn, for example, but all of them ultimately ended up departing the White House.
Spicer’s resignation in July came following Trump’s appointment of Anthony Scaramucci as the White House communications director. Reports that Trump was unhappy with Spicer had circulated for pretty much the entire duration of Spicer’s tenure as the White House spokesman. When asked about them in June, Spicer replied: “I’m still here.” Trump himself had defended Spicer’s performances at the White House podium, in which he frequently misled reporters or misstated facts: “As a very active president with lots of things happening, it is not possible for my surrogates to stand at podium with perfect accuracy!” he tweeted. “Maybe the best thing to do would be to cancel all future ‘press briefings’ and hand out written responses for the sake of accuracy???”
Spicer’s resignation resulted in speculation that Priebus would be the next to go because of his own past frictions with Scaramucci. Priebus, too, denied anything was amiss. “We go back a long, long way and are very good friends,” Priebus told the AP. “All good here.” When Sarah Huckabee Sanders was asked whether Trump had confidence in Priebus, she replied: “We all serve at the pleasure of the president, and if it gets to a place where that isn’t the case, he’ll let you know.” Priebus was out soon after that. Even after replacing him with John Kelly, Trump called Priebus “a good man.”
Bannon, in an interview with the American Prospect that many say led to his ouster, fixed his ire on many of the president’s aides, but not Trump himself. Indeed, after Trump’s controversial remarks on Charlottesville, in which he decried violence on both sides following a white-supremacist rally but added “you also had some very fine people on both sides,” many of Trump’s closest aides broke with him. But while Tillerson, Gary Cohn, and others publicly distanced themselves from Trump, Bannon was steadfast, reportedly saying he was “proud” of the president’s remarks. That didn’t save him, though. Amid reports in August that Bannon’s future was in peril, Trump called his chief strategist “a good man, he’s not a racist, I can tell you that,” but he declined to offer details about Bannon’s future, saying merely, “we’ll see.” Bannon was out on August 18.
Scaramucci himself was ingloriously dumped following imprudent remarks to a New Yorker reporter about Bannon and Priebus—remarks he said he thought were off the record.
Mike Flynn, the national security adviser who resigned early on in the administration amid scandal over undisclosed contacts with the Russian ambassador during the campaign, remains a favorite of the president, who reportedly is still smarting over his absence. Even on the day Flynn left the White House, Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor, said Trump had “full confidence” in Flynn. Later in the day, Flynn was gone.
Trump at first favored then-FBI director James Comey, because of his role in the Hillary Clinton investigation at the height of the presidential campaign, but ended up firing him because of his continued investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties with Russia. In March, amid speculation he was considering resigning, Comey seemed confident he was keeping his job, telling an audience at a cybersecurity conference: “You’re stuck with me another 6½ years.” In fact, Comey had so little idea what was coming that he reportedly found out he’d been fired when he caught a glimpse of a CNN broadcast while delivering a talk in May to FBI personnel.
Tom Price, the first cabinet-level official to resign from the administration, was the latest to go. Trump said publicly he was “not happy” with his health and human services secretary, who stepped down over a scandal involving his use of private jets for government travel. And when asked if he’d fire Price, Trump replied: “We’ll see.”
Tillerson, the former Exxon CEO, shies from publicity—and generally avoids the media, something that will ensure that he never outshines or gets better headlines than the president. It has been previously reported that Trump had been annoyed about the kinds of headlines Bannon received. But his remarks on Wednesday won’t quiet speculation about just how much influence Tillerson has on the U.S. foreign-policy agenda he’s supposed to be leading. (UN ambassador Nikki Haley, for example, can at times appear to be setting policy instead—most recently when she delivered a speech about the flaws of the Iran nuclear deal, and the possible case for withdrawal, that many diplomats say was Tillerson’s to make. Tillerson has called the deal flawed, but has previously said the U.S. should stay in it. Trump has called the agreement “the worst deal in history.”)  
Among the foreign-policy issues where Trump has publicly broken with Tillerson are Qatar, NATO, Iran, and, most recently, North Korea. Ambassador Laura Kennedy, who served at the State Department for four decades until 2015 under both Republican and Democratic administrations, told me this week the president’s repeated public disagreements with Tillerson send a bad message. “For the president to deliberately and flippantly taunt his secretary of state undercuts that secretary of state, and it also introduces an element of childishness and pettiness that’s very much at variance with the needs of projecting our leadership throughout the world,” she said.
Tillerson’s remarks Wednesday that he had never considered quitting; that he thought the president was “smart;” and that he served at the pleasure of the president might assuage some of Trump’s own suspicions about his secretary of state. But recent history suggests that such statements don’t actually say much about the fate of those who make them.


After the 2012 presidential election, Republicans came to a conclusion: They needed to make inroads with Hispanic voters. Four years later, the party chose Donald Trump—whose controversial rhetoric and hardline stance on immigration alienated many Hispanic voters—as its nominee, intensifying tensions between the GOP and Hispanics. Despite that history, Republican strategists now see an opportunity to appeal to this segment of the population by passing legislation granting legal status to recipients of the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which shields undocumented immigrants brought to the U.S. as children from deportation.
Last month, the Trump administration announced that it was ending DACA with a six-month delay. That leaves the Republican-controlled Congress with time to act to protect DACA recipients, known as “Dreamers,” if it so chooses. DACA is a particularly salient issue within the Hispanic community, as many of the program’s nearly 700,000 beneficiaries are originally from Central America. The program’s beneficiaries are also overwhelmingly from mixed-status families, meaning some members may be legally residing in the U.S. while others may be undocumented. A legislative fix under a Republican administration, therefore, might help advance GOP efforts to appeal to Hispanic voters.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
“I tell everybody that Trump might be, ironically, the president that saves the GOP when it comes to the Hispanic community because if he passes this DACA legislation, it’s going to be a total 180 as to what he stood for during his campaign,” said Artemio Muniz, the chairman of the Federation of Hispanic Republicans. “He’s going to save the GOP because the GOP itself has not been able to do anything, and we could make the argument to Hispanic communities that it was Donald Trump that actually forced legislation, and the Democratic Party had eight years to do something and never did.”
The decline in Republican support from Hispanics happened over the course of several elections: In 2004, George W. Bush garnered 44 percent of the Hispanic vote compared to John McCain’s 31 percent in 2008 and Mitt Romney’s 27 percent in 2012. Then came Donald Trump. Despite his 2016 win, and slightly better showing among Hispanic voters compared to Romney, Latino Republicans see an opportunity in DACA to correct the course among this segment of the population.
“Over the last number of years, the trajectory has not been great for Republicans with Hispanic voters, include Donald Trump, exclude Donald Trump, the trajectory hasn’t been great. We know that this is a growing piece of the pie here,” a Republican strategist told me, adding that the administration’s success in other areas, like the passage of DACA legislation, could serve as a boost. “This president was dealt this hand after eight years of a predecessor who was unable to pass a law and here we are. There’s risk and there’s opportunity.”
The urgency to coalesce Hispanic voters behind the Republican Party stems from an ongoing shift in voter demographics. Over the years, there’s been a considerable uptick in the number of Hispanic eligible voters, from 23.3 million in 2012 to 27.3 million in 2016, according to the Pew Research Center. Of course, there are several factions within the Hispanic community, some of which have long supported the GOP, but Hispanic voters have often leaned Democratic. While their electoral impact has been hindered by low voter turnout, there’s reason to wonder about their influence down the road. For example, a data analysis on 2016 voting, conducted for The Atlantic by Robert Griffin and Ruy Teixeira of the Center for American Progress’s States of Change project, found that the Republican base, made up in part by non-college-educated whites, is shrinking.
The GOP acknowledged a shift in its post-2012 autopsy report. “We are not a policy committee, but among the steps Republicans take in the Hispanic community and beyond, we must embrace and champion comprehensive immigration reform,” it read. “If we do not, our Party’s appeal will continue to shrink to its core constituencies only.”
Glenn McCall, an RNC committeeman from South Carolina and one of the authors of the report, is confident that Hispanic voters will back the party in upcoming races. “I think it’s going to grow next election cycle, as we look at some state and congressional races, I see that number growing with Hispanics,” he said, adding, “I think it’s going to take some time and we’re going to be persistent about it.”
Muniz, along with other Hispanic Republican leaders, will meet with GOP lawmakers on Wednesday to lobby them to pass legislation codifying DACA protections. “If we don’t codify it, we’ll be in serious danger as a party,” he said.
The push to pass a measure comes against the backdrop of the crisis in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, which has left residents without power and basic necessities. In recent years, Puerto Ricans have been migrating to the mainland, as a result of the island’s economic recession. Although as a territory, Puerto Rico has no electoral votes or representation in Congress, Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens by birth and can vote in any state they move to. Puerto Ricans are now among the largest hispanic groups by origin in the U.S., with a population of nearly 5.4 million. Some Latino Republicans are concerned that the president’s response could hinder the effort to reach out to Latino voters at a crucial moment.
Over the weekend, Trump slammed San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz and other officials who have publicly criticized the administration’s recovery efforts.  “Such poor leadership ability by the Mayor of San Juan, and others in Puerto Rico, who are not able to get their workers to help,” Trump said on Twitter. “They want everything to be done for them when it should be a community effort.” The spat fueled frustrations among some lawmakers. Florida Senator Marco Rubio, a Republican, said on CBS’s Face the Nation: “Every minute we spend in the political realm bickering with one another over who’s doing what, or who’s wrong, or who didn’t do right is a minute of energy and time that we’re not spending trying to get the response right.”
Rubio’s response falls in line with that of other Republican leaders in the state of Florida, which has one of the largest populations of Puerto Ricans in the country. New York had the largest population of Puerto Ricans on the mainland until 2014, when the population in Florida grew to match that of the Empire State. In fact, a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data found that the number of Puerto Ricans in Florida increased 110 percent since 2000. Alienating Puerto Rican voters could therefore be particularly perilous for Republicans in Florida, a battleground state.
Trump won Florida in the 2016 presidential election, but had a dismal showing among Hispanics. The then-Republican nominee garnered 35 percent of the Hispanic vote in the state, compared to Hillary Clinton’s 62 percent. Daniel Smith, a political science professor at the University of Florida who surveyed self-identifying Puerto Rican-born voters in the state after the presidential election, found that Trump garnered roughly 25 percent support in some areas where there were at least 100 Puerto Rican voters.
The Republican Party’s poor showing among Hispanics, however, is not solely credited to Trump, he said. “Is it Donald Trump that was the nail on the coffin? Perhaps. But Republican leaders were already hammering into that coffin,” Smith said.
Republican strategists argue the episode between Trump and Cruz is unlikely to make a big dent in Hispanic outreach efforts, pointing instead to potential victories in the future.
“Everything can be undone,” said Jacob Monty, a former member of the Hispanic Advisory Council for Trump. “[Trump is] already so low among Latinos, so he has nowhere else to go but up. If he can solve some big issues that are affecting Latinos, like DACA, North Korea, tax reform, he can only go up. To date, he hasn’t solved those yet.”
Freddy Balsera, a Miami-based political consultant who served as President Obama’s Hispanic media manager during his 2008 presidential campaign, said that Trump’s response to Puerto Rico will not be taken lightly within the community. “Taking a good position on DACA helps, but ultimately they have Trump and that could be what really dooms their fate with voters who might not be able see beyond that,” he said, adding, “You don’t have to be Puerto Rican to take offense to the attitude and lack of leadership.”
Banking on the passage of DACA legislation is still a risky bet. Measures to protect young undocumented immigrants have been introduced in Congress in the past to no avail. Some Democrats are pushing for a clean bill, while Republicans want border security included in the deal. During a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on DACA Tuesday, Senator Chuck Grassley said that “any potential DACA agreement has to include robust border security and by that, I don’t mean a wall.”
It’s not clear how effective DACA legislation would be in convincing Hispanic voters to back the GOP. “There are so many other issues affecting Hispanics in this country,” Smith told me. “Certainly, DACA is a very important one to a very large segment of that community. Is it suddenly going to lift the shroud from the Republican Party? I’m not sure.” During the 2016 election, immigration was ranked below education, the economy, and health care as important issues for Hispanic voters.
But should Congress pass immigration legislation under the Trump administration it would  be, as one strategist put it: “the ultimate irony.” And one that many Republicans hope will help the party’s standing in the Hispanic community.


Living a connected life is now inseparable from seeing unspeakable tragedies as they intrude suddenly but seamlessly into the same streams where we chat, work, and play.
On Monday, as a gunman began slaughtering scores on the Las Vegas strip, I sat safely at home, pricey headphones wrapped around my ears, watching a dog video on Twitter. Two clicks later I listened in too-high fidelity as strangers sought cover amid the rat-tat-tat of bullets; even as I felt an impulse to disconnect, as if the scale of the carnage called for a moment of respite or quiet reflection. I failed to look away from the stream of far-flung people absorbing the shock––and sharing their reactions.
Now that tragedy reaches us as it unfolds, across continents, broadcast into our homes in 4K or rendered on Retina displays that glow in the darkness of our bedrooms, the pattern of how we process it has become disconcertingly familiar. I climbed into bed and hugged my wife extra tight. My mind raced. I slept, finally. I awoke, then remembered. All was dreadfully familiar, for the massacre had not been a nightmare, and emotionally raw Americans were expressing anger at one another.
Anger at the people who called for “thoughts and prayers.” As if divine intervention is the answer! Anger at the people diminishing prayer amid tragedy. Don’t they get faith?
Anger at the people intent on or opposed to processing the event as a political happening; anger at those who desperately want more gun control or who just gave to the NRA; anger at those who responded to the mass shooting with assumptions about the killer; anger at a lawyer who got fired for saying she had no sympathy for the victims, because they listened to country music and probably voted for pro-gun Republicans; anger at those who responded to the carnage with grim or ironic humor.
Like everyone else, I have my own policy views, political sympathies, opinions about good taste and propriety, and preferred approach to public comportment amid tragedy. At times I felt anger welling up as instincts that would guide me in person failed online.
But I try to avoid expressing anger at any honest reaction in such moments, keeping in mind that we all bear tragedy differently; and that among the dead in Las Vegas and the heroes who shielded the living were people who would have reacted in all those ways had the atrocity happened someplace else. I try to be forgiving even of ghastly jokes or callous comments, because many are much better than what they say when suddenly subject to horrors that can scarcely be conceived; insofar as they behave badly, it is rooted in the trauma of helplessly watching the terrible specter of worldly evil.
We’re stuck together in this era of connectedness; we’ll react to many future tragedies together: mass shootings, natural disasters, mass casualty accidents, terrorist attacks, even wars. Human difference ensures that many will have different notions of how one ought to react, and that some will behave badly by most of those standards. To be forgiving of others while trying to be constructive is our charge.
In “September 1, 1939,” W.H. Auden wrote that humans are lost as in a haunted wood.
Defenseless under the night
Our world in stupor lies;
Yet, dotted everywhere,
Ironic points of light
Flash out wherever the Just
Exchange their messages:
May I, composed like them
Of Eros and of dust,
Beleaguered by the same
Negation and despair,
Show an affirming flame.
“We must love one another,” he wrote, “or die.”


Right now, it’s hard to tell in what direction Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands are heading after sustaining hits from Hurricane Irma and then Hurricane Maria in September. The picture of the damage in Puerto Rico verges on the apocalyptic now, and much of the situation is currently deteriorating. Millions are still without power, fuel, food, and water are running out, hospitals are overwhelmed and mostly inoperable, and bodies are “piling up” in morgues. Struggles in the Virgin Islands are less documented, but no less real: Power is still tenuous, flooding is still rampant, most of the hospitals have been damaged or destroyed, and many roads are ruined.
Federal aid is arriving to help deal with the onslaught of disasters, but even if that aid were adequate and weren’t heavily criticized by residents for being late or ineffective, aid alone won’t lead to recovery. Existing challenges that plagued the territories before Irma and Maria multiply the effects of the storms, and must themselves be dealt with in order for recovery to be a reality. But dealing with those issues will require examining the legacies of colonialism, racism, and erratic federal policy in shaping the destinies of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, and how those forces contributed to the destruction on display today.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
President Trump has—if nothing else—outlined just how deeply those legacies run in his direction of the federal response. When Trump attacked San Juan mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz on Twitter last weekend, his remarks that the relief effort was hampered by “poor leadership ability by the Mayor of San Juan, and others in Puerto Rico, who are not able to get their workers to help” and that “they want everything to be done for them when it should be a community effort,” played on similar themes as an 1899 colonial governor bemoaning the lack of “Anglo-Saxon energy to face a gloomy outlook” among his black and brown constituents on the island, which had just been taken from Spain as the United States built its own empire.
When Trump expanded on his comments Tuesday, just hours before his first trip to San Juan, he paired praise to federal responders for “the great job we’ve done” with criticism of the efforts of local officials. It was a contrast that recalled the opinion of Justice Henry Billings Brown in the 1901 Downes v. Bidwell case—one of the so-called “Insular Cases” that now form the basis of governance over the U.S. territories, and helped create the status quo where residents of the territories are citizens who pay taxes and serve in the military, but have neither representation in Congress nor sovereignty. There, Brown said that for the “alien races … the administration of government and justice, according to Anglo-Saxon principles, may for a time be impossible.”
The president’s other comments have perhaps unwittingly outlined the culpability at play in Puerto Rico’s crisis. When Trump first tweeted about Maria, four days after the Category 4 made landfall on Puerto Rico, he said that: “Texas & Florida are doing great but Puerto Rico, which was already suffering from broken infrastructure & massive debt, is in deep trouble. Its old electrical grid, which was in terrible shape, was devastated. Much of the Island was destroyed, with billions of dollars owed to Wall Street and the banks which, sadly, must be dealt with.” While Trump received criticism for implying that Puerto Ricans were at fault for their own struggles or that he might be inclined to hold their feet to the bondholders’ fire while the island is still coping with the aftermath of a calamity, his diagnosis—that Maria’s catastrophic effects in Puerto Rico are tied to endemic and ongoing structural crises—was correct.
Those crises, however, are intricately tied to the nature of America’s colonial relationship with its territories, a relationship that does not begin or end with Trump. The legacy of colonialism has been a force in the immediate phase of relief, when mainlanders largely failed to realize that Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens, and when the basic coordination and urgency shown in federal relief efforts for Hurricane Harvey in Texas failed to materialized in Puerto Rico.
It took days of lobbying by Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rosselló to temporarily ease the Jones Act, a maritime law that some policymakers believe makes goods in Puerto Rico more expensive, and limits aid vessels in port to American-flag ships. After the Trump administration said on September 26 that there was no need to temporarily waive the Jones Act, Rosselló said on September 27 that he’d reached out to Congress and that “we expect them to waive it.”
The administration granted the waiver the following day, allowing foreign ships to sail to Puerto Rico’s aid along with domestic ships. Some of those American-flag assets were already moving to Puerto Rico in the aftermath of the storm. The USNS Comfort, the Navy’s floating hospital, wasn’t deployed until nine days after Maria’s landfall, and has just now arrived off the Puerto Rican shore.
“Those are things that I think should’ve been in place shortly after the storm,” argued Edwin Melendez, the director of Hunter College’s Center for Puerto Rican Studies. FEMA-assisted basic disaster logistics and preparation are critical, but appear to have been largely absent in Puerto Rico. Undelivered foods and supplies have remained undelivered because there seem to have been few existing plans for getting them to Puerto Rico’s interior, and now very few ways to track and identify needy populations, since communications outside major municipalities have largely gone dark and rural roads are difficult to traverse.
But the most dire current needs in both Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands—and the most potentially deadly problems—are staggering infrastructure losses. According to U.S. Virgin Islands Governor Kenneth Mapp, “this will be the fifth time the U.S. government has basically paid to rebuild our power infrastructure,” after powerful hurricanes over the past three decades have destroyed homes and grids on Saint Croix, Saint Thomas, and Saint John. Mapp hopes to work with FEMA and the Department of the Interior to build hurricane-resilient power lines, but that project will take time and a generous appropriation of funds from a Congress that has not usually been generous to the territories.
Puerto Rico’s power infrastructure is also notoriously flimsy, even on good days, and one of the major components of its debt crisis is the $10 billion debt of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA), which has had to run up massive credit lines just to keep its outdated, mostly oil-powered grid running, with payments from the island and its citizens always coming up short. That grid was destroyed entirely in Maria, and in Melendez’s view, “restoring the electrical system might be a longer-term project.”
That project will be difficult. The collapse of PREPA and other utilities on the island has been influenced by Congress’s decisions to end corporate-friendly tax codes and subsidies, and the Puerto Rican economy has suffered from depression and inefficiency over the past two decades. The remedy from Congress, the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA), did help fend off the worst of the debt crisis, but also installed a congressionally-appointed board of directors who can basically overrule the Puerto Rican government and has thus destroyed any semblance of self-determination. While last week Puerto Rican officials turned down a further $1 billion loan from PREPA’s creditors that would have probably dragged the island’s finances even lower, just how the new electrical system for the entire territory will be built is anyone’s guess.
The debt crisis in Puerto Rico, and less catastrophic financial troubles in the Virgin Islands, have helped highlight other infrastructure issues beyond the power grid as well. Puerto Rico was suffering from humanitarian and public-health crises, including zika outbreaks, shortages of physicians and prescriptions, and lack of health-care access in rural areas when Maria hit as well, and even before the storm hospitals suffered rolling blackouts, prescription shortages, and the possibility of permanent disconnection from utilities. Part of those problems were due to a completely arbitrary system of funding for Medicaid, which saw Puerto Rico receiving fewer dollars per Medicaid enrollee than the states, and also saw the Puerto Rican government on the hook for almost half that amount. Although the territories were granted a reprieve in the form of lump Medicaid payments included in the Affordable Care Act, those funds are temporary and weren’t capable of keeping up with previous health-care issues, let alone the public-health nightmare now settling on the islands after Maria.
“Medicaid is one of the biggest expenses in Puerto Rico, the health system is in shambles right now, and we still have to pay 50 percent of total expenditures,” Melendez says. “Puerto Rico’s broke, so they can’t borrow that money anymore. If the ACA program is not attended to we’re gonna be done.”
Similar problems abound in the Virgin Islands. According to Mapp, the U.S. Virgin Islands completely lost two hospitals during the hurricanes, and the roofs and critical components of other hospitals were damaged. But since the majority of hospital revenues come from Medicaid, it’s difficult to rebuild the hospitals while also paying for the immediate needs of people injured or sickened by the flood, who often now have to be airlifted to the mainland. Mapp says that he is working with the Department of Health and Human Services to potentially waive cost-sharing from the territory on Medicaid for up to 18 months.
As officials on the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico continue the months-long work of stabilizing their territories in the immediate aftermath of the two hurricanes, they are also awaiting the congressional aid package that will signal if recovery will proceed.
On the one hand, if Republicans in Congress follow Trump’s lead on holding territorial citizens to their debts and passing the buck to them, the resulting package could result in death sentences. Puerto Rico is facing a mass exodus of young residents to the mainland as its economy collapses and as jobs dry up, and those losses would only continue if Puerto Rico’s bondholders continue their stranglehold on the island. The Virgin Islands’ situation is less complicated, but it’s also facing significant emigration, and policies that stop short of committed rebuilding programs could weaken tourism and the construction industries enough for people to leave to the mainland, too. And health-care expenses could easily spiral out of control, especially if hospitals aren’t rebuilt on time and airlift continues to be the standard practice.
On the other hand, Congress—which has almost complete control over the legal entities of the territories—now finds itself in position to reverse some of the measures that have eroded the status of territorial citizens and made local economies increasingly untenable. Congress could vote to subsidize or forgive some or all of Puerto Rico’s debt, it could authorize and expand mass community-development block-grant programs to build resilient housing in places that are now ruins, and it could finally act to create a comprehensive medical system in the territories that doesn’t just aim for funding parity between citizens there and citizens in the states, but invests in reversing the unique public-health problems that have arisen as a result of second-class citizenship. And perhaps Congress could make that strategy official policy across the board in its response, investing to right wrongs and help territorial citizens create resilient communities that will fare better in the next storm and the next. Perhaps, also, Congress could relinquish its absolute control.
Those concerns still seem lifetimes away. Final aid packages and insurance statements probably won’t be available until the storm-related damages can be reported, an exercise that can’t yet happen in most places in the interior of Puerto Rico. People are still dying, families still haven’t made contact with loved ones, diseases are setting in, and food and water are still running out in places. Doctors in both Caribbean territories are performing life-saving work in tents with generators. But these all signal that the recovery will be an incredibly long process. And for the sake of the territories, the government that brought them in as colonies will have to undo some of the choices and policies made in the name of dominion in order to complete that recovery.


President Trump visited hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico, where he compared the island’s death toll to that of “a real catastrophe like Katrina.” During a press conference addressing Sunday night’s massacre in Las Vegas, House Speaker Paul Ryan said “mental health reform is a critical ingredient” to preventing future mass shootings. The House voted on a bill banning abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy. The United States expelled 15 Cuban diplomats from the country in response to recent mysterious attacks on American embassy personnel in Havana. And the Supreme Court heard oral arguments in Gill v. Whitford, a case on partisan gerrymandering.
In Republican Control: Less than two days after the mass shooting in Las Vegas, the gun proposals with the best chance of passing Congress are still ones that expand, not restrict, gun rights. (Russell Berman)
Making Cuts: President Trump’s tax-reform plan would be more beneficial to the top 1 percent of Americans than to the middle class. Here’s what a real tax cut for the middle class would look like. (Derek Thompson)
A New Monologue: In the aftermath of the massacre in Las Vegas, late-night comedians ditched their jokes to talk about the growing normalcy of gun violence in America. (Sophie Gilbert)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Total Non-Sequitur: Liberal lawmakers are pursuing universal background checks to prevent future mass shootings, argues Rich Lowry, but background checks wouldn’t have prevented the massacre in Las Vegas. (National Review)
Talking in Circles: The gun debate in America can only be constructive if gun-control advocates and gun-rights advocates speak honestly about the fears motivating them—fears “of losing life, or losing a way of life.” (Anne Helen Petersen, BuzzFeed News)
More Than 16: During his visit to Puerto Rico, President Trump pointed to the relatively low death toll to downplay the crisis on the island. The problem is, the death toll is likely much higher. (Eliza Barclay, Vox)
‘How the Elderly Lose Their Rights’: In 2013, a stranger knocked on Rudy and Rennie North’s front door and removed them from their home. The stranger turned out to be a professional guardian, who can control—and profit from—senior citizens without their consent. (Rachel Aviv, The New Yorker)
Will Trump Push for Gun Control?: The president’s allies said he won’t push for tighter gun laws. Why? It would be “the end of everything,” said former chief strategist Steve Bannon. (Jonathan Swan, Axios)
‘Is the Debacle in Puerto Rico All Trump’s Fault?’
by The New Republic’s Emily Atkin
By now, it's clear that the relief effort in Puerto Rico is encountering difficulties, but it's hard to determine specifically where the breakdowns are. Atkin's piece is the best explanation I've seen of why it appears that the military is the broken link—and why tight-lipped government officials make it so hard to tell for sure.
—Staff writer David A. Graham
What Do You Think About Guns?: These eight charts illustrate the gun divide in the United States, using polling data from Gallup and the Pew Research Center. (Chris Cillizza, CNN)
From Nevada to New York: Vigils were held on Tuesday for the victims of Sunday night’s mass shooting in Las Vegas, where 59 people were killed. See photos from across the country. (Alan Taylor)
After the deadly protests in Charlottesville, Virginia, in August, we asked you to share what you read to keep things in perspective and make sense of uncertain times. We return to that question this week in light of the mass shooting in Las Vegas: What books or readings do you turn to for comfort and reflection?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


“After Newtown, nothing changed, so don’t expect anything to change after Las Vegas.”
Did the Las Vegas Shooting Involve an Automatic Weapon?
How often have you heard that said? Yet it’s not true. The five years since a gunman killed 26 at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, have seen one of the most intense bursts of gun legislation in U.S. history—almost all of it intended to ensure that more guns can be carried into more places.
In the aftermath of the Newtown massacre, gun-rights activists assertively carried openly displayed weapons into more and more places. Many national chain stores banned weapons, but at least one—Starbucks—did not. In August 2013, gun-rights activists declared a “Starbucks Appreciation Day.” They made a special point that day of carrying weapons in Starbucks outlets nationwide, including the Starbucks in Newtown itself. (The store closed for the day to avert the demonstration.)
Since Newtown, more than two dozen states have expanded the right to carry into previously unknown places: bars, churches, schools, college campuses, and so on. The most ambitious of these laws was adopted in Georgia in April 2014. Among other provisions, it allowed guns to be carried into airports right up to the federal TSA checkpoint.
In July 2014, Tennessee allowed residents to keep loaded weapons in their vehicles even without a concealed carry permit.
Wisconsin did away with its 48-hour waiting period for handgun purchases in June 2015.
Texas allowed students over age 21 to carry guns almost anywhere onto a university campus beginning in August 2016. (Sports stadiums are exempted, however.)
Florida, in February 2017, dramatically expanded its “stand your ground” law. Previously, the gun owner was required to prove that he or she had acted reasonably. Now Florida puts the onus on prosecutors to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the gun owner acted unreasonably.
Effective June 2017, the state of Ohio allowed concealed-carry weapons to be brought into daycare centers and airports.
In July 2017, a local version of Florida’s “stand your ground” law took effect in Iowa, authorizing deadly force by gun owners. It also allowed gun use by children under 14, so long as they were under adult supervision, and extended concealed carry permits’ duration from one year to five.
Even more radical bills are in progress everywhere, too many to tally. Here’s just one example: Nevada, site of this week’s deadly massacre, took up in 2015 a law that would authorize gun owners to kill people they caught trying to steal their cars or motorbikes.
So it’s not at all true that “nothing changes.” In fact, a remarkable research paper published in 2016 by Harvard’s Michael Luca, Deepak Malhotra, and Christopher Poliquin found that between 1989 and 2014, the most probable policy response to a mass shooting was a loosening of gun laws.
A mass shooting increases the number of enacted laws that loosen gun restrictions by 75 percent in states with Republican-controlled legislatures. We find no significant effect of mass shootings on laws enacted when there is a Democrat-controlled legislature.
This may explain why gun advocates insist that the immediate aftermath of a spectacular massacre is “too soon” for the gun discussion. They want the pain and grief and fear to ebb. They want ordinary citizens to look away. Then, when things are quiet, the gun advocates will go to work, to bring more guns to places where alcohol is served, where children are cared for, where students are taught, where God is worshipped. More killings bring more guns. More guns do more killing. It’s a cycle the nation has endured for a long time, and there is little reason to hope that the atrocity in Las Vegas will check or reverse it.


One common response to the national anthem protests originated by Colin Kaepernick is to disparage them as polarizing. Joe Scarborough, host of Morning Joe, summed up this particular critique in a tweet last weekend:
This may be unpopular but it is a political reality:
Every NFL player refusing to stand for the national anthem helps Trump politically.
The idea here is that kneeling NFL players are committing an act of such blatant disrespect that they hand Trump an easy image with which to demagogue. Often attendant to the idea that protesting players are shooting themselves in the foot is the notion that in some other era, black protest proved to be a unifying force that altered the psychology of some critical mass of open-minded whites.
David Leonhardt offers a version of this in Monday’s New York Times:
In one of his first prominent speeches, during the 1955 Montgomery bus boycott, Martin Luther King Jr. spoke of “the glory of America, with all its faults.” At the March on Washington, King described not just a dream but “a dream deeply rooted in the American dream.” Before finishing, he recited the first seven lines of “My Country, ’Tis of Thee,” ending with “Let freedom ring!”
A year-and-a-half later, marchers from Selma to Montgomery carried American flags. Segregationist hecklers along the route held up Confederate flags. Within six months, Lyndon Johnson had signed the Voting Rights Act.
Leonhardt goes on to contrast this species of activism, which aligned “the civil-rights movement with the symbols and ideals of America,” with kneeling during the national anthem, which presumably signals opposition to those same symbols. Leonhardt is sympathetic to the aims of Kaepernick’s protest but he contrasts this “angry” approach with the “smart” approach of the civil-rights movement.
There’s a lot of ground covered in this column, and not all of it thoroughly. Leonhardt’s rendering of the civil-rights movement, for instance, implies a kind of direct and seamless chain of events, from the March on Washington’s invocation of American ideals, to growing white support, to the passage of the Civil Rights Act. This elides self-interested motives for civil-rights reform—the influence of the Cold War, the threat of urban rebellion—in favor of warm and fuzzy ones.
The trajectory of Leonhardt’s argument is doomed by the defective pad from which it was launched. The problem here is not just a just-so chain of events, but the actual effects of the events. Implicit in Leonhardt’s critique is the idea that Martin Luther King and other civil-rights pioneers, and their protests, were better able to appeal to the hearts of white Americans than Kaepernick and his allies. Leonhardt cites a Yougov poll showing that “only 36 percent consider the kneeling protest to be ‘appropriate.’” This might be damning if not for the fact that the very civil-rights movement Leonhardt cites was generally thought to be equally, if not more, inappropriate.
As The Washington Post noted last year, only 22 percent of all Americans approved of the Freedom Rides, and only 28 percent approved of the sit-ins. The vast majority of Americans—60 percent—had “unfavorable” feelings about the March on Washington. As FiveThirtyEight notes, in 1966, 63 percent of Americans had a negative opinion of Martin Luther King. The popular hostility toward King extended to the very government he tried to embrace—King was bugged and harassed by the FBI until the end of his life. His assassination sprang from the deep hostility with which he was viewed, not by a fringe radical minority, but by the majority of the American citizenry.
That the civil-rights movement was unpopular is not shocking to the activists who protested at the time. “When I’m told by people, ‘Thank you for what you did,’ I almost want to look around and see who they’re talking to,” Joyce Ladner told the Post.* The paper quotes Julian Bond satirizing the kind of history Leonhardt’s argument is premised—“Rosa sat down, Martin stood up and then the white folks saw the light and saved the day.”
Leonhardt is a smart and knowledgeable columnist. It is thus surprising to see him embrace a mythical rendition of the civil-rights movement that runs counter to the the facts and figures of the time. But Leonhardt’s column seems less interested in offering an accurate apprehension of the civil-rights movement than in employing the civil-rights movement as a club against radicalism in general, and the Bernie Sanders-wing of the left in particular:
Getting smart means nominating progressive candidates who can win, even if they aren’t progressive on every issue. Getting smart means delaying internal fights (like single-payer health care) and unifying against Trump’s agenda (as Democrats in Congress have). Getting smart means understanding, as civil-rights leaders did, that American symbols are a worthy ally.
Reading this you would think Blanche Lincoln was primaried, that Alison Lundergan Grimes was done in by her implacable leftist fanaticism, that Evan Bayh never ran in 2016, that Bob Casey wasn’t pro-life, that Joe Manchin wasn’t a senator. But more, you'd think that “smart” necessarily equated with “centrist.” In fact, the very history Leonhardt summons says the opposite.
Whatever symbols they embraced, civil-rights activists—much like black activists today—never successfully connected with the hearts of the majority of adults of their own day. The process was neither neat nor particularly unifying. In fact, it destroyed the Democratic Party of Roosevelt and Truman. But the activists did sketch a theater of violence, with men like Bull Connor in starring roles, that shamed and embarrassed the country. And aided by an intemperate radicalism within and the Cold War threat without, the activists were able to use that shame to affect meaningful change.
Perhaps most importantly they affected the attitudes of the children of those white Americans who scorned them. This points to the true target, in terms of white people, of Kaepernick’s protest. The point is not to convince people who boo even when a team kneels before the anthem is sung. The point is to reach the children of those people. The point is the future.
Kaepernick did not inaugurate his protest in hopes of helping elect more centrist Democrats, or any kind of Democrat. That said, he was not immune to compromise. When his initial efforts were met with disdain and deemed disrespectful, he actually consulted a group of veterans to see how he might better pursue a protest. That is the origin of Kaepernick kneeling, and the fact that it too has been met with scoffs points to deeper problem. If young people attempting to board a bus are unacceptable, if gathering on the National Mall is verboten, if preaching nonviolence gets you harassed by your own government and then killed, if a protest founded in consultation with military veterans is offensive, then what specific manner of protest is white America willing to endure?
It’s almost as if the manner of protest isn’t the real problem.
* This article originally attributed this quote to Dorie Ladner. We regret the error.


Updated on October 3 at 2:36 p.m.
Making his first appearance in hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico since Maria’s landfall, President Trump offered a hearty round of congratulations to federal relief efforts and thanked the island’s governor. But the president also suggested Maria was not a “real catastrophe,” made an odd and misleading comparison to the death toll from Hurricane Katrina, and joked about how the hurricane would affect the federal budget.
It was a typically strange, disjointed appearance by the president, and it came just days after Trump spent much of the weekend picking fights with the mayor of San Juan and insisting that, against all evidence, the recovery effort had largely responded to Puerto Rico’s needs. At Muñiz Air National Guard Base, Trump was eager to praise the work of federal agencies, including FEMA, the Air Force, the Navy, and the Coast Guard, amid a chorus of criticism that Washington’s response has been too slow and too small. But that praise led him in strange directions.
Trump Takes to Twitter as Puerto Rico's Crisis Mounts
“Every death is a horror, but if you look at a real catastrophe like Katrina, and you look at the tremendous hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people that died, and you look at what happened here and what is your death count? Sixteen people, versus in the thousands,” Trump said. “You can be very proud. Sixteen versus literally thousands of people.”
That statement is problematic in several ways. The idea that Maria was not a “real catastrophe” defies all evidence, and any discussion of the death toll is premature. While the official number remains at 16, where it has been for several days without update, officials have acknowledged it will end up much higher. The Center for Investigative Journalism reported Monday that “dozens” of people are dead, with bodies piling up in morgues, even as the official count has not kept pace. Trump’s decision to use Hurricane Katrina as a benchmark also makes little sense and belittles the suffering in Puerto Rico. Katrina is both the deadliest hurricane in U.S. history since 1928 and a prime example of a mismanaged disaster. Trump also overstated the toll of Katrina, which was less than 2,000.
Trump also misstated Maria’s strength at landfall. “Few people have ever even heard of a Category 5 hitting land, but it hit land, and boy did it hit land,” he said, but the storm was a Category-4 storm when it struck. Trump also said the Coast Guard had saved 16,000 lives in Texas. It’s unclear where he got that number; the Coast Guard has claimed 11,000 rescues.
Later, after his briefing, Trump visited a church where he tossed toilet paper and paper towels into the crowd, shooting them like basketballs to a crowd.
Throughout the aftermath of the storm, Trump has often appeared more interested in the political ramifications of the storm than on the human effects, focusing on approval of himself and the federal government (though he doesn’t really draw a distinction between the two). This was also true at Muñiz. In praising Governor Ricardo Rosselló, for example, Trump reached for the lens of partisan affiliation.
“He’s not even from my party and he started right at the beginning appreciating what we did,” Trump said. “Right from the beginning, this governor did not play politics. He was saying it like it was, and he gave us the highest rates.”
This was an implicit jab at San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz, who has been critical of relief efforts, and whom Trump claimed over the weekend was doing so because Democrats had put her up to it. As I noted, his broadside against Cruz serves as a warning to politicians like Rosselló not to follow her lead, lest Trump punish them too. (Speaking in Washington Tuesday, before taking off, Trump said of Cruz, “Well, I think she’s come back a long way. I think it’s now acknowledged what a great job we’ve done, and people are looking at that.” It’s unclear what he is referring to. She attended Tuesday’s briefing.)
Trump also greeted Jenniffer González-Colón, a Republican who is Puerto Rico’s delegate to the U.S. House, and asked her to praise federal efforts.
“I watched the other day and she was saying such nice things about a lot of the people who are working so hard,” he said. “Jenniffer, do you think you could say a little bit what you said about us? It’s not about me, it’s about these incredible people from the military, from FEMA, the first responders.”
Yet as with his premature celebration of the death toll, Trump’s comments about Puerto Rico and Maria still fell far short of empathy, and were in some cases strangely tone-deaf. Before leaving for Puerto Rico, Trump complained that rather than the federal government not doing enough, it was Puerto Rican authorities who weren’t doing enough to hasten the recovery.
“On a local level, they have to give us more help,” he said in Washington. “But I will tell you, the first responders, the military, FEMA, they have done an incredible job in Puerto Rico.”
During his briefing, he made an apparent attempt at a joke about the cost of recovery. “I hate to tell you Puerto Rico, but you’ve thrown our budget a little out of whack,” he said. “That’s fine. We saved a lot of lives.” Yet the remark comes in the context of Trump repeatedly mentioning Puerto Rico’s debts as both a reason for the slow recovery and a reason to think hard about reconstruction there. Nor did he make similar remarks after hurricanes in Texas and Florida.
Meanwhile, after thanking an Air Force general present at the briefing, Trump went on a strange digression about the F-35 fighter jet, a troubled boondoggle whose cost Trump negotiated down with the manufacturer. The discussion of the plane was roughly as lengthy as the president’s discussion of the victims of the storm, and it had nothing to do with the hurricane. If the Puerto Rico visit sought to reverse the impression that Trump has not taken Maria seriously and does not feel empathy for its victims, Tuesday’s briefing did not help the cause.


Even before the victims are counted and the blood dried after mass shootings, the public, press, and politicians all begin searching to understand what drove the perpetrators. This is important as a matter of law enforcement—Did they work alone? Is there a remaining threat?—and to make sense of the senseless. But it also serves an important psychological purpose: If the killer can be fit into a known profile, it provides some minimal comfort to an otherwise horrifyingly random crime, some feeling that the key to preventing the next tragedy is just doing a better job of recognizing people like him (it’s almost always a him) and stopping them.
It’s one thing to tell people, “If you see something, say something,” but if no one sees anything, it won’t help. That’s one reason that Stephen Craig Paddock, the man police have identified as the shooter in the Vegas massacre, which killed at least 59 people, is such a frightening enigma. His motivations are, as yet, entirely opaque. As countless people pointed out Monday, Paddock does not immediately fit the “profile” of a mass shooter. More accurately, he does not fit any of the obvious profiles.
How Perpetrators of Mass Violence Learn From Each Other
Here’s what we do know about the man. He was 64 years old, and lived in Mesquite, Nevada, a town 80 miles northeast of Las Vegas. His brother Eric said he was well-to-do, a millionaire even, and he owned two single-engine planes. He lived in a clean, neat retirement community next to a golf course. Eric Paddock said his brother had moved to Nevada from Central Florida because he hated the humidity and because he loved to gamble; gaming was apparently his main occupation, though he had previously worked as an accountant or auditor and real-estate speculator. He had also lived in Texas, and according to The New York Times owned several other properties around the country. Police said his house in Mesquite was in good order.
“No one seems angry here. Everyone seems happy. Everyone waves,” a neighbor told The Nevada Independent. “Living in this kind of community, you don’t expect that. [It] is just unbelievable.”
Of course, reactions like this are a staple of post-atrocity coverage: With some rare and notable exceptions, few people expect that their next-door neighbors are mass-murderers in the making, and if they do believe that, they sometimes take action or move.
Yet in Paddock’s case, based on what little is known so far, the reaction seems more warranted. For example, Paddock was not a young man, as many mass shooters are, though as a white man he shares a race and gender with many other perpetrators. In the aftermath of the massacre, ISIS claimed credit, perplexing experts who noted that on the one hand, the group’s claims are generally borne out, but that on the other, Paddock was an unlikely ISIS recruit. The federal government says it has not turned up any evidence of ties between him and ISIS.
So far there is no indication that Paddock was part of any other extremist groups, whether on the far left or far right, nor that he belonged to ethnic or racial hate groups. Such affiliations sometimes lead people with superficially contented lives to do terrible things, but that won’t help explain this particular crime.
Sometimes those who commit crimes like this turn out to have been lifelong ne’erdowells, who outdid themselves with one final crime. While Paddock seems to have been solitary and itinerant, he was apparently financially successful, and he had no criminal record. This year, Paddock passed criminal background checks while buying guns, according to stores that sold the weapons to him. Other shooters are frustrated attention seekers who desire infamy, but nothing about Paddock’s background so far makes him fit that description either.
Or perhaps Paddock was mentally ill? It’s tempting to say that anyone who could have committed an act like the Vegas massacre must be unwell. “I can’t get into the mind of a psychopath,” Clark County Sheriff Joseph Lombardo said when asked about motive.
“He’s a sick man, a demented man,” President Trump said Tuesday morning, though he did not offer any more detail. “A lot of problems, I guess. We are looking into him very, very seriously. But we’re dealing with a very, very sick individual.” House Speaker Paul Ryan accented the need for mental-health care Tuesday morning.
Yet there is so far no evidence to support the idea that Paddock was mentally ill, and his brother said he didn’t know of any. Besides, the idea of a link between gun violence and mental illness is, at the very least, probably exaggerated in the public imagination.
“Surprisingly little population-level evidence supports the notion that individuals diagnosed with mental illness are more likely than anyone else to commit gun crimes,” an American Journal of Public Health article found in 2015. “According to Appelbaum, less than 3 percent to 5 percent of U.S. crimes involve people with mental illness, and the percentages of crimes that involve guns are lower than the national average for persons not diagnosed with mental illness.”
Paddock’s gambling habit has raised questions about whether he might have snapped after a losing streak. He was known to gamble large amounts: Eric Paddock showed FBI agents a text in which his brother mentioned winning $250,000, and the Los Angeles Times cited law-enforcement sources who said Paddock had bought at least $10,000 in chips on occasion in the last year, an amount which requires legal disclosure. But the idea of a spontaneous snap occasioned by losses is hard to reconcile with the extensive preparation that the massacre required. Authorities found 23 guns in the Mandalay Bay hotel, from which he opened fire, and there were another 19 at his home, according to police. Some reports suggest he also had tripods equipped for guns. The Associated Press also reported he had devices that can be retrofitted to a semi-automatic gun to increase its effective rate of fire.
Much of the discourse about the massacre has focused on why law-enforcement officials have not labeled Paddock a terrorist. Federal officials use that word to refer to violence perpetrated for a political cause, and so far there’s no evidence to back up its use here. As I wrote after the 2015 attacks in San Bernardino, the FBI was notably deliberate in applying the term there, even after the press had declared the attacks an act of terror. James Holmes’s theater shooting in Aurora, Colorado, sowed terror, but calling it terrorism simply because it was a mass-shooting accident would make little sense.
There are elements of Paddock’s biography that, in hindsight, mark an atypical lifestyle, but hardly the type that ends in blood. He moved frequently. He did not have a typical job—but then again, there is no sign yet that he had problems with money. He was twice divorced—though plenty of people are, and Paddock seems to have had a stable relationship with a woman named Marilou Danley. According to the Los Angeles Times, she was vivacious, and the pair frequented a karaoke bar. (Danley, reportedly an Australian citizen born in the Philippines, was traveling abroad when the shooting occurred, and police are hoping to speak with her, though she is not suspected of involvement.) Paddock’s father was a convicted bank robber who was on the FBI’s most-wanted list after escaping from prison—but again, Paddock himself had no known criminal record.
Some of Paddock’s acquantainces and neighbors suggested he was something of a loner or a recluse. “He was weird. Kept to himself,” a former neighbor told The Washington Post. “We never saw anyone outside there,” another told the Independent. “I questioned whether anyone lived there. The blinds were always drawn.” Yet plenty of others disagree: “He was always normal.” “He was just a nice guy, and that was it.” “He was friendly all the time.”
Eric Paddock, who lives in Florida, has been a major source for information about his brother’s life, and a widely circulated interview that CBS News posted Monday seemed to tap into the strangeness of the situation. There’s no situation in which learning that your brother committed the worst mass-shooting in modern U.S. history won’t be disorienting. (He also says he didn’t know Stephen Paddock to be “an avid gun guy,” and while that’s a subjective determination, the size and type of the arsenal police found suggests more than a hobbyist’s interest.) Yet Eric Paddock’s reactions seem to capture a more essentially perplexing part of his brother’s crime:
“Not an avid gun guy at all...where the hell did he get automatic weapons? He has no military background,” gunman’s brother says pic.twitter.com/EMSKLQGYFM
“The fact that he had those kind of weapons is just—how the hell did he get automatic weapons?  He has no military background or anything like that,” Paddock said.
Sputtering, shaking his head, and widening his eyes, Paddock tried to reconcile the person he knew with the killer: “He’s a guy who lived in a house in Mesquite and drove down and gambled in Las Vegas. He did … stuff. He ate burritos.”
The banality of that existence makes the Las Vegas massacre even more frightening than even the record-breaking death toll would suggest. The lack of any obvious motivation makes the terror of a random act of violence even deeper and more random. If an ordinary guy, with no obvious ties to extremists groups, no ideological motivations, an apparently placid personal life, stable finances, and no psychological abnormalities—the kind of guy who eats burritos, has a couple beers at the karaoke bar, waves to his neighbors, but largely keeps to himself—can emerge as the deadliest shooter in modern U.S. history, what hope can there be to identify suspects like him before they attack?


Next year, Florida voters may finally right a wrong first perpetrated 150 years ago by racist state legislators who were desperate to deny equality to African Americans. Voters may enfranchise almost 1.6 million fellow Floridians; or they may retain an approach that long-dead white supremacists conceived to disenfranchise blacks, an approach that is still spectacularly successful at diluting their political power.
This particular historical evil began after the Civil War, when white-supremacist legislatures were resisting efforts to treat blacks as fellow humans with equal rights and dignity.
Though attempts to block the 14th Amendment failed, and though the Reconstruction Act of 1867 forced Florida to add an article to its state constitution granting suffrage to all men, creative racists kept many blacks from the ballot box with educational requirements and a lifetime voting ban for convicted felons, knowing blacks had been and would be abused by the criminal-justice system.
Florida’s constitution changed a century later, during the civil-rights era; but the blanket ban on voting by convicted felons remained, excepting those rare few given clemency.
The provision remains in the state’s constitution today, punishing people of all races who have served their debt to society, been released from prison, and asked to fully assume all the duties of citizenship, from paying taxes to participation in a draft. “Florida denies the right to vote to more of its residents than any state, and to the largest percentage of its voting-age citizens,” according to Erika L. Wood of New York Law School, who authored a research brief on the law’s sordid past and its present.  
The law still overburdens African Americans, who are more likely to be convicted of felonies compared to whites who commit the same crime. “Nearly one-third of those who have lost the right to vote for life in Florida are black, although African Americans make up just 16 percent of the state’s population,” she notes. “Florida’s law disenfranchises 21 percent of its total African American voting-age population.”
And many who are never even accused of a crime are affected.
Disenfranchisement echoes across communities and generations: Some eligible voters are less likely to vote when their friends and neighbors are staying home; children who never see their parents vote grow up are less likely to cast ballots themselves.
Put simply, the status quo is a moral abomination.
White supremacists sought to deny a whole race the right to vote; when they failed, a lifetime ban on felons voting struck them as the next best thing; their racist scheme not only succeeded, it is operative in Florida, the worst of U.S. states with similar laws, 150 years later. And the scale is enough to change the course of history, even setting aside those echoes of disenfranchisement to focus on first-order effects. In 2016, when the gambit of the long-dead racists disqualified 1.6 million Floridians from voting, Donald Trump beat Hillary Clinton in the state by just 112,911 votes.
Righting this wrong wouldn’t just advance moral justice in Florida.
The state presently considers clemency applications from felons hoping to have their voting rights restored on a case-by-case basis, imposing high costs on its bureaucracy. And some experts believe voting helps convicted felons to reintegrate themselves into civic life; rates of recidivism seem to be lower among those who vote, though the non-random nature of who is granted clemency may explain that effect.
How to right the wrong that will persist for another 150 years if nothing is done?
If enough signatures are gathered, an amendment to restore voting rights for felons, exempting murderers and sex offenders, can appear on Florida’s ballot in 2018.
The Florida Supreme Court has already approved the language.
But the last time Floridians for a Fair Democracy, the group behind the effort, tried to get this reform on the ballot, it failed to gather enough signatures. This time around, it has until February 1, 2018, to get 766,200 signatures verified as legitimate, meaning it probably needs all the signatures gathered by the end of this year.
It’s currently at just 172,184 signatures.
Florida Governor Rick Scott won’t help. He benefits from the voting framework the long-dead racists initiated. Like many Republicans, he denies any racial motive for pursuing and defending laws that disproportionately suppress turnout among the racial groups most likely to vote Democratic. You’d think Democrats would work furiously to re-enfranchise those voters, given how narrowly the party lost Florida and the presidency in 2000 and 2016, and Florida’s likely swing-state status in future contests.
Some Democrats are working toward that end, along with civil libertarians at organizations like the ACLU who are doing as much as anyone to aid the petition-gatherers.
Yet with mere months left to qualify the constitutional amendment for the Florida  ballot, most of the Democratic base, including most self-proclaimed members of “the resistance,” have no idea that a realistic opportunity to enfranchise 1.6 million swing-state voters is upon them. They are focused elsewhere, on many worthy projects, but also on much quixotic nonsense. For example, whether the Florida reform effort succeeds or fails, it will probably be the case that more grassroots energy was lavished on an ostensible effort to keep “fascists” from taking over Berkeley, California, where an open fascist couldn’t get approval to adopt a rescue dog. What if disenfranchisement inspired as much activism as Milo Yiannopolous?
Being on the wrong side of voting rights may be the biggest moral failing of Republicans and conservatives. Democrats will not find a better alignment of what is moral, righteous, and politically good for their coalition than securing voting rights for more Americans, whether they are poor people without an ID or felons who have paid their debt to society or those Americans wrongly purged from voter rolls or forced to stand in hours-long lines to vote or denied the ability to cast an absentee ballot.  
But America’s left-coalition may not be able to capitalize on this moral failure; many of its moderates treat one-day marches and social-media zings as meaningful civic victories (though in this particular case, a social-media campaign to convince registered Florida voters to download, print, sign, and mail the petition could conceivably bear fruit); many of its tireless activists are more energized by protesting against the system from the outside than working to gather signatures, qualify ballot initiatives, persuade skeptics, excite turnout, and effect change through the ballot box. Will enough opponents of disenfranchisement grasp the stakes in Florida before it’s too late?


The federal legislation likeliest to advance in Congress following the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history is not a measure strengthening background checks, banning the sale of assault weapons, or otherwise restricting access to firearms.
Instead, the proposals that stand the best chance of passing are ones that would make it easier for gun owners to buy silencers for their weapons, loosen restrictions on the sale of armor-piercing bullets, and force states with tight gun-control laws to recognize the rights of residents from states with lighter regulation.
Such is the political reality nearly a year after a presidential election that extinguished the hopes of gun-control advocates for even modest action by Congress and gave full control of the federal government to Republicans who support the expansion of gun rights. Late Sunday night, a 64-year-old gunman killed at least 58 people and injured hundreds more by raking concertgoers on the Las Vegas Strip. In the hours afterward, groups like Everytown for Gun Safety and the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence renewed their calls for Congress to enact a universal background-check law and other measures proposed by former President Barack Obama and endorsed during last year’s campaign by Hillary Clinton. But their more immediate priority now is a rearguard action to keep federal gun laws where they are.
The Political World Reacts to the Las Vegas Massacre
Before the Las Vegas shooting brought the gun debate once again to the fore, gun-control advocates were preparing for a House vote as soon as this week on legislation loosening a series of firearms regulations for the benefit of sportsmen and hunters. From their perspective, the most concerning of those measures is a bill dubbed the Hearing Protection Act that would eliminate a $200 federal tax on silencers, streamline the process of obtaining approval to buy them, and preempt any state or local law restricting their sale or possession. “We’re working that bill pretty hard. I think today things changed quite a bit,” Kris Brown, co-president of the Brady Campaign, told me on Monday. House Republicans already delayed action on the measure once this year, after Majority Whip Steve Scalise of Louisiana was shot at a congressional baseball practice in June.
The silencer bill was added to a broader package of legislation known as the Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement Act, or SHARE, which loosens restrictions on hunting on public lands and prohibits the Department of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms from designating certain ammunition as “armor-piercing.” The SHARE Act advanced out of the House Natural Resources Committee in September and appeared to be headed for a full vote on the House floor. But it was not on the schedule for this week, which was released on Friday, and a spokesman for Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy would not say when it might come up.
Supporters argue there’s a public-health benefit to silencers, because they suppress the loud noise of a gunshot that could be damaging to the ears of frequent hunters and recreational gun users. But advocates for gun control say there are plenty of headphones and noise reducers already on the market, and they say the legislation is a transparent giveaway to the silencer industry. “This is simply propping up sales for the gun industry, which have flagged since the election of Donald Trump,” Brown said. Gun sales spiked during the Obama presidency amid fears—never realized or realistic—that Congress or the administration would enact restrictions on or even seize firearms. Now, gun-control advocates say, the industry is turning to other methods to juice sales. “There’s not a bogeyman in the White House right now for the NRA,” Everytown spokesman Andrew Zucker said.
The NRA, or National Rifle Association, had no comment on Monday, maintaining the low public profile that has become the norm for the organization in the immediate aftermath of mass shootings. Politico reported that the NRA had delayed by a week the start of TV ads it was set to run in support of the Republican nominee for governor of Virginia, Ed Gillespie. The lead sponsor of the Hearing Protection Act, GOP Representative Jeff Duncan of South Carolina, was not available for an interview, his spokesman said. Though the bill may make it through the House, it seems unlikely to win the support of the at least eight Democrats it would need to overcome a filibuster in the Senate.
The frozen political debate over gun laws was evident in other ways on Monday. After former Representative Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona was shot during a district event in 2011, the Democratic congresswoman and her husband, Mark Kelly, became outspoken advocates for tighter gun control. “Do not let anyone tell you not to talk about politics when we talk about guns,” Kelly said on Monday, appearing alongside Giffords at a press conference outside the Capitol building. Giffords, whose speech has been impaired since the shooting, uttered only a single sentence. “The nation’s counting on you,” she said, as she raised a fist and turned toward the Capitol.
On Friday, Scalise, the third-ranking House Republican, returned to the House chamber for the first time since a rifle bullet shattered his hip. Unlike Giffords, the conservative has said nothing about gun policy since that attack—not during a speech to colleagues on the House floor, nor during an interview with CBS for 60 Minutes, nor in his statement mourning the loss of life in Las Vegas.
The juxtaposition of Giffords and Scalise fits a pattern. As Monday wore on, Democrats issued calls to action in the wake of the massacre. They came from Hillary Clinton and former Vice President Joe Biden, Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut and Representative Seth Moulton of Massachusetts. The House Democratic leader, Representative Nancy Pelosi, sent a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan urging the creation of a special committee on gun violence and a vote on bipartisan background-check legislation. Several other Democrats urged Ryan to abandon the silencer bill.
Republicans, by and large, skirted the gun debate altogether. “You can’t regulate evil,” Governor Matt Bevin of Kentucky tweeted. Neither President Trump, nor Ryan, nor Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell mentioned guns at all in their public statements, either to rebut Democrats or to advocate a legislative response of their own. “It would be premature to discuss policy,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary.


This story was updated on Monday, October 2 at 11:22 pm
On Sunday night, authorities said a gunman opened fire on a crowd of music-festival attendees from a room on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino in Las Vegas. The suspect, 64-year-old Stephen Paddock, allegedly shot and killed 58 people in what has become the deadliest mass shooting in American history—firing at a rate that set this incident apart from other recent shootings.
Las Vegas Police said Paddock was found dead when a SWAT team entered his hotel room, where investigators also reportedly found up to 20 firearms. (Las Vegas police have not yet released details of the firearms involved.) Semi-automatic guns shoot only one round for every pull of the trigger. Military-style automatic rifles and machine guns are able to fire multiple rounds per trigger pull.
On Monday evening, ABC News reported that a modified bump stock was recovered from the scene, and that authorities were still examining the weapons to see if any were capable of fully automatic fire. Bump stocks are legal, aftermarket accessories that allow semi-automatic weapons to fire at rates approaching those of fully automatic versions.  
If the shooter used one or more automatic rifles—or even if it’s confirmed that he used legal accessories like a bump stock or trigger crank to approach their rate of fire, as some experts believe audio recordings suggest—it would mark a significant departure from other recent mass shootings.
Thirty years ago, the federal government identified automatic weapons for their unique ability to carry out mass casualty attacks and regulated them differently from other weapons, said Daniel Webster, the director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Policy and Research. “As a result, [they haven’t] been used. Now there’s an exception to that.”
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
There are currently some 300 million firearms in the United States, though estimates vary. It’s legal, generally speaking, to purchase three types of guns: handguns, shotguns, and rifles. Federal law requires background checks for any transfer of a firearm between federally licensed dealers, but sales between private individuals don’t carry a federal requirement for such checks, although some states impose restrictions. Webster described it as “literally no questions asked.”
If you’re 18 years old, in most states, and aren’t otherwise barred from gun ownership, you can legally purchase a firearm from a gun show or from a seller on the internet. Eighteen states, plus the District of Columbia, have a mechanism to regulate that transaction with a background check, such as a licensing or permitting system. It’s most difficult to buy a gun in states like New Jersey and Massachusetts that have such mechanisms, Webster told me, and easiest to purchase one in states like Montana and Wyoming that do not.
For 10 years, the United States prohibited the manufacture of certain semi-automatic weapons it deemed “assault weapons,” like the AR-15 and AK-47 rifles. But that law expired in 2004. According to The New York Times, most of the firearms used in the 16 most recent mass shootings in the United States were purchased legally and with a federal background check.
Omar Mateen, who murdered 49 people at an Orlando nightclub in June 2016, used at least two legally purchased firearms, a handgun and an AR-15-style rifle. Christopher Harper-Mercer, who killed nine people at Umpqua Community College in Oregon, owned 14 guns, all of which he purchased legally. And Adam Lanza, who killed 26 at Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012, used two rifles that were legally purchased by his mother.*
America hasn’t recently seen a mass shooting with a fully automatic weapon—which is, Webster believes, “a testament to the effectiveness of regulation.” In 1986, Congress passed a law banning the sale of fully automatic firearms, but automatics that were already in existence and registered before May 19, 1986 were grandfathered in under the law, and remain available for legal purchase by civilians. Essentially, Webster explained, “they weren’t made illegal, they simply said you can’t buy and sell new ones.”
To purchase one, a buyer must submit fingerprints, go through an FBI criminal background check, and pay a $200 tax. The guns themselves are also extremely expensive. Justin Anderson, the director of marketing at Hyatt Guns, a Charlotte-based retailer that bills itself as “America’s Largest Gun Shop,” told me that purchasing a semi-automatic weapon, like an AR-15, would cost you between $400 and $700. But for a fully automatic gun, you might spend $18,000 to $25,000. “There are a group of guys out there who buy full autos and just take them to the range to have fun,” Anderson told me, noting that machine-gun shoots happen regularly all over the country. “I’ve done it myself, it’s a lot of fun.”
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) reports that there were 176,000 of these guns registered in the United States as of February 2016. While it’s still unclear how Paddock obtained his weapons, it’s possible that he could have crafted automatic weapons himself, as a gun owner can convert a semi-automatic rifle to full automatic, if they have the inclination. “It’s a difficult process to do,” Anderson said, as well as “extraordinarily illegal.” You’d need a specific type of bolt, a specific receiver, and a few highly regulated parts. But, he added, “Somebody bent on doing something like this, I’m sure it would not be impossible for him to do it.” He also could have attached a bump stock, or used a trigger crank, a mechanism used to hit the trigger multiple times per second.
If automatic weapons, despite being highly regulated, were used in the attack, it may illustrate the limits of tightening gun regulations in preventing mass shootings. But it’s hard to draw conclusions from a single event because we can’t measure the counterfactual, Webster said.
“What we don’t know is how many mass shootings didn’t happen over the past months and years because people couldn’t get an automatic weapon,” he said. “There are plenty of deranged, angry people out there. If more angry, sociopathic people had had automatic weapons, our numbers would look even worse.”
* This article originally stated that the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting occurred in 2015. We regret the error.


At least 58 people have died and 515 have been injured after a gunman opened fire on a crowd of concertgoers in Las Vegas on Sunday night. The Las Vegas Police Department identified the suspected shooter as 64-year-old Stephen Paddock, who is dead. President Trump, who is expected to visit Las Vegas on Wednesday, condemned the massacre as “an act of pure evil.” In the wake of the tragedy, Democratic lawmakers forcefully called for tougher gun laws, while White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said it was not the time to engage in a policy debate. The Interior Department’s inspector general’s office has launched an investigation into Secretary Ryan Zinke’s travel, following reports that Zinke used taxpayer-funded charter planes.
‘This Is Who We Are’: James Fallows offers two dark American truths in light of the tragedy in Las Vegas: The shootings will go on, and the media’s response is predicated on the shooter’s identity.
‘Nobody’s in Control’: Following Roy Moore’s victory in Alabama’s GOP Senate primary, Republican leaders have had to contend with a new reality: “They have lost all control and comprehension of the populist movement they were supposed to be marshaling—and they may soon be facing a mutiny.” (McKay Coppins)
All in the Emails: Emails obtained by The Atlantic suggest that Paul Manafort, Trump's former campaign chair, tried to please an oligarch tied to the Kremlin. (Julia Ioffe and Franklin Foer)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Few Red Flags to Trace: The suspected gunman behind the mass shooting in Las Vegas drew almost no negative attention from people that knew him before Sunday’s attack. (Jose A. DelReal and Jonah Engel Bromwich, The New York Times)
‘I Had Angels’: Steve Scalise, the Louisiana representative who was shot at a congressional baseball practice in June, returned to the House last Thursday. Tim Alberta discussed the near-death experience with Scalise, who maintained that it’s “not going to define” him going forward. (Politico)
Four Democrat-Friendly Ideas in the Tax Plan: Jeff Spross lays out four ideas in the latest GOP tax-reform plan that Democrats should support. Number one? Encouraging businesses to invest more. (The Week)
How to Protect Workers: Three cases being heard at the Supreme Court Monday raise the issue of workers’ complaints vis-à-vis the National Labor Relations Act, which established America’s current system of union bargaining. (David Freeman Engstrom, The New York Times)
A Familiar Line in the Sand: Sunday’s shooting in Las Vegas rekindled the debate over gun legislation, though it’s unlikely this time will be any different. (Susan Davis, NPR)
An American Problem: Look at gun violence in the U.S., 17 different ways. (German Lopez, Vox)
In Remembrance: Here are the stories of the lives lost in the Las Vegas massacre. (The Washington Post)
After the deadly protests in Charlottesville, Virginia, in August, we asked you to share what you read to keep things in perspective and make sense of uncertain times. We return to that question this week in light of the mass shooting in Las Vegas: What books or readings do you turn to for comfort and reflection?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Taylor Hosking (@Taylor_Hosking), Lena Felton (@lenakfelton), and Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


Pre-presidential Trump was a man of many faults and vices, but one endearing quality: He was no hypocrite. He exaggerated his wealth, his success, his physical fitness, but he never pretended to religion or morality.
Two Dark American Truths From Las Vegas
Trump’s speech to the nation after the Las Vegas atrocity, however, was steeped in hypocrisy. He is the least outwardly religious president of modern times, the president least steeped in scripture. For him to offer the consolations of God and faith after mass bloodletting is to invite derision. “It is love that defines us,” said President Trump, and if we weren’t heartbroken, we would laugh.
Those who praised the speech, as CNN’s John King did, are reacting on reflex. This is the kind of thing we are used to hearing from Republican politicians; Trump is a Republican politician; therefore this is what he should say.
But whereas Vice President Pence could have pronounced those words with sincerity, or a convincing simulacrum thereof, Donald Trump looked shifty, nervous, and false. Speeches are watched as well as heard, and the viewer saw a president who wished he were somewhere else because he had been compelled to pretend something so radically false to his own nature.
For once, Trump read the speech exactly as written. Perhaps his aides talked him into it. Because Trump is not a good reader, he read the speech wrong. And because it sounded wrong, he looked bad.
Nevertheless, Trump had to say something. He is the president. At times of national mourning, it falls to him to speak on the nation’s behalf. What could he possibly have said instead?
He cannot offer action. Even if he ever were convinced that something had to be done about America’s unique gun violence, his party would not tolerate it, and he could not deliver. Anyway, the first shock of the atrocity is not the right time for policy.
What he can do is acknowledge his own nature and character, and speak as himself, in his own tones and accents, and without the religion in which he gives no evidence of believing and in which he is so poorly at home. “This is a terrible day. We are all saddened and outraged. We’ll learn more. If any criminals are still at large, we’ll hunt them down.” It’s better to say a few things that sound real than a great many that sound false.
So advice to Team Trump: You can’t make him better, and you can’t make him different. Let him be the man he is, just tidied up a little. Cut the God talk. It’s insulting to those who believe, and no comfort to those who grieve. Cut the appeal to national unity; it rings false from a president who just two days ago was accusing homeless hurricane victims of looking for a handout. Trump voters—there are still many of those—liked it that with him, what you saw was what you got. Be real. Be true. Even Donald Trump must have something authentically human within him. Unearth that, and let it speak. He will never be a compassionate man, but even he cannot be so thoroughly empty and remote as he seemed today.


Beyond the scores of people who have been killed and the hundreds who have been wounded in Las Vegas today, thousands of other people, though not visibly or directly injured, have had their lives changed forever. Children and parents. Husbands and wives. Brothers and sisters. Something is instantly and permanently gone from their lives. Co-workers and friends. Members of churches or sports leagues or the PTA. Customers and clients and students. Neighbors and casual acquaintances at the coffee shop or the bar. The rest of their days will be different and shadowed because of this massacre. “Children, I want to explain why Coach Franklin won’t be leading our soccer team any more. Something bad happened, and ...”
The dead and the wounded, and their family and friends, of course deserve most support and sympathy. But their fellow countrymen should reflect on two dark truths the episode underscores. I was going to end that sentence with “reveals,” but that’s not right: We know these things already.
The first is that America will not stop these shootings. They will go on. We all know that, which makes the immediate wave of grief even worse.
Five years ago, after what was the horrific mass shooting of that moment, I wrote an item called “The Certainty of More Shootings.” It was about the massacre in a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado, and after acknowledging the victims it said:
The additional sad, horrifying, and appalling point is the shared American knowledge that, beyond any doubt, this will happen again, and that it will happen in America many, many times before it occurs anywhere else.
That remains true now. I expect it to be true five years from now. I am an optimist about most aspects of America’s resilience and adaptability, but not about reversing America’s implicit decision to let these killings go on.
Decision? Yes. Other advanced societies have outbreaks of mass-shooting gun violence. Scotland, in 1996. Australia, in 1996 as well. Norway in 2011. But only in the United States do they come again and again and again.
The story of Australia’s response to its Port Arthur massacre is the most famous (and is retold here). A conservative government pushed through significant gun-law reforms, and the country has had no remotely comparable episode since then. The story of Scotland’s reaction to its Dunblane massacre is less familiar but is also important. The Dunblane shooting was Scotland’s version of the Newtown horror in America. A gunman killed 16 students, and a teacher, before shooting himself. As a Scottish newspaper the Sunday Herald notes what happened next:
Despite gun control measures undertaken since Dunblane, there are still plenty of guns in mainland Britain. …
In the 10 years between 2003 and 2012, there were 182 recorded allegations of firearms being used in a school or college in Scotland. There were five years in that decade in which gun murders committed in Scotland still remain unsolved until this day. …
Despite these facts, it is highly suggestive that those gun controls implemented after 1996 worked. The year of the Dunblane massacre, gun homicides peaked at 84 across the UK—the most on record. Today, gun killings have dropped to almost a third of that. In England and Wales in 2012/13, the police recorded 30 gun homicides, 12 fewer than the previous year, and the lowest figure since the National Crime Recording Standard was introduced in 2002.
Today, in Scotland, firearms account for just 2 percent of all homicides, and [a graph] starkly shows how gun deaths in Scotland have dropped since the introduction of those handgun laws.
Three years after the Aurora shooting, I did an update about all the gun massacres that had happened since then. The toll goes on. Here’s an update just of 2017’s mass shootings from the Mass Shooting Tracker, updated to include early counts of today’s casualties:
No other society allows the massacres to keep happening. Everyone around the world knows this about the United States. It is the worst aspect of the American national identity.
* * *
Here’s the other dark truth about America that today’s shooting reminds us of. The identity of the shooter doesn’t affect how many people are dead or how grievously their families and communities are wounded. But we know that everything about the news coverage and political response would be different, depending on whether the killer turns out to be “merely” a white American man with a non-immigrant-sounding name.
That’s who most mass-shooters turn out to be, from Charles Whitman at the University of Texas tower back in 1966 onward. And from Whitman onward, killers of this sort are described as “deranged” or “disturbed” or “resentful,” their crimes a reflection of their own torment rather than any larger trend or force.  They are “troubled” youths, like the white teenaged boy who shot up classmates in West Paducah, Kentucky, in 1997, or the two white teenaged boys who shot up classmates in Columbine, Colorado, two years later, or the white teenaged boy who carried out the atrocity in Newtown, Connecticut. Or troubled older people, like the white man in his 60s who shot up the congressional baseball game this summer, or (on initial reports) the white man in his 60s who murdered so many people today. A report on the congressional-baseball shooter described his “descent into rage.”
These people are indeed deranged and angry and disturbed, and the full story of today’s killer is not yet known. It is possible that he will prove to have motives or connections beyond whatever was happening in his own mind (as Graeme Wood explains). But we know that if the killers were other than whites with “normal” names, the responsibility for their crime would not be assigned solely to themselves and their tortured psyches.
* * *
This is who we are.
I was going to add, “—unless we decide to change,” but that’s the kind of mandatory-uplift note you put, because you have to, at the end of a speech.
This is who we are.


On the evening of April 11, 2016, two weeks after Donald Trump hired the political consultant  Paul Manafort to lead his campaign’s efforts to wrangle Republican delegates, Manafort emailed his old lieutenant Konstantin Kilimnik, who had worked for him for a decade in the Ukrainian capital, Kiev.
“I assume you have shown our friends my media coverage, right?” Manafort wrote.
“Absolutely,” Kilimnik responded a few hours later from Kiev. “Every article.”
“How do we use to get whole,” Manafort asks. “Has OVD operation seen?”
According to a source close to Manafort, the initials “OVD” refer to Oleg Vladimirovich Deripaska, a Russian oligarch and one of Russia’s richest men. The source also confirmed that one of the individuals repeatedly mentioned in the email exchange as an intermediary to Deripaska is an aide to the oligarch.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
The emails were provided to The Atlantic on condition of anonymity. They are part of a trove of documents turned over by lawyers for Trump’s presidential campaign to investigators looking into the Kremlin’s interference in the 2016 election. A source close to Manafort confirmed their authenticity. Excerpts from these emails were first reported by The Washington Post, but the full text of these exchanges, provided to The Atlantic, shows that Manafort attempted to leverage his leadership role in the Trump campaign to curry favor with a Russian oligarch close to the Russian president, Vladimir Putin. Manafort was deeply in debt, and did not earn a salary from the Trump campaign.
There is no evidence that Deripaska met with Manafort in 2016, or knew about Manafort’s attempts to reach him. Yet the extended correspondence between Manafort and Kilimnik paints a more complete portrait of Manafort’s willingness to trade on his campaign position. Manafort is a high-profile focus of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into the possibility of collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign. FBI agents raided Manafort’s home in July.
Deripaska had been Manafort’s client in various post-Soviet states, but the relationship soured after an investment Manafort managed for Deripaska fell apart. Manafort had represented Deripaska in Georgia and Ukraine, and his firm also represented Deripaska’s commercial interests in Montenegro.
In 2007, Manafort and his partners established a private equity fund that would acquire Ukrainian firms and merge them into larger national entities. Manafort and his partners collected over $7 million in fees for managing this fund from firms controlled by Deripaska, according to a 2014 petition filed in the Cayman Islands, filed by Deripaska’s lawyers.
In 2008, Deripaska transferred $18.9 million to the fund so  that it could purchase Black Sea Cable, a Ukrainian telecommunication company, according to the petition. It’s not clear what became of Deripaska’s investment, or if the private-equity fund actually took control of the company. In the Cayman Islands petition, his lawyers alleged the venture had been botched, and requested the “winding down of the partnership.” The petition alleges that when Deripaska asked for an accounting of the investment in 2013, Manafort simply didn’t respond. “It appears that Paul Manafort and [his deputy] Rick Gates have simply disappeared,” the Russian oligarch’s lawyers wrote.  
Manafort’s spokesman Jason Maloni has denied that Manafort had done anything wrong. “With respect to the Caymans controversy. Mr. Manafort believes the matter is dormant and will not be pursued further,” he said in a prepared statement. A search of court records shows no filings since 2015.
The emails do not specify how Manafort hoped “to get whole,” but they repeatedly refer to the matter at the heart of the Cayman Islands dispute. It is unclear from the Cayman Islands petition, or from a 2015 filing in Virginia by the liquidators appointed by the Caymans court, whether the collapse of the joint venture left Manafort in debt to Deripaska.
But according to financial records filed in Cyprus in 2015, Manafort was in debt to shell companies connected to pro-Russian interests in Ukraine for some $16 million. Maloni denies that Manafort owed funds to Deripaska, insisting instead that it was Manafort who hoped to collect on debts owed by former clients. “It’s no secret Paul was owed money going back to 2014,” Maloni said in a separate prepared statement. He described the emails as “innocuous.”
Vera Kurochkina, a spokesperson for Deripaska, offered a different account. “The suggestion that Mr. Deripaska owes money to Mr. Manafort is absurd,” she said. “Except for the contents of these emails, Mr. Manafort has never made any such claim. To the contrary, as set out in widely reported court filings, it is Mr. Manafort who has failed to provide any accounting in respect of investments for which he was responsible. Mr. Manafort is the debtor here, not the creditor.”
Despite his apparently precarious financial situation, Manafort went to work for the Trump campaign for free in March 2016. Later that year, he took out $16 million in loans against his New York properties. (The loans are now being investigated by both the Manhattan District Attorney and the New York Attorney General.) In the email exchange that took place two weeks after starting on the campaign, Manafort seemed primarily concerned with the Russian oligarch’s approval for his work with Trump—and asked for confirmation that Deripaska was indeed paying attention.
“Yes, I have been sending everything to Victor, who has been forwarding the coverage directly to OVD,” Kilimnik responded in April, referring again to Deripaska. (“Victor” is a Deripaska aide, the source close to Manafort confirmed.) “Frankly, the coverage has been much better than Trump’s,” Kilimnik wrote. “In any case it will hugely enhance your reputation no matter what happens.”
Kurochkina denied that claim. “There is no evidence that these or any other emails were sent by either Mr. Manafort or Mr. Kilimnik to Mr. Deripaska and they were not,” she said. “Mr. Deripaska had no communications, meetings, briefings, or other interactions with Mr. Manafort during, after, or in the run-up to the 2016 presidential election or for many years prior to that time.”
By the end of April, Manafort was vying for control of the Trump campaign, and was named its chairman on May 19. On July 7, two weeks before Trump accepted the Republican nomination, Manafort again wrote to Kilimnik. He forwarded questions he’d received from a reporter for the English-language Kyiv Post about Black Sea Cable—the sole investment made by the venture. Manafort asked Kilimnik, “Is there any movement on this issue with our friend?” Manafort seemed concerned about whether the journalist’s probing had caught the attention of Deripaska. A source close to Manafort confirmed to me that “our friend” indeed referred to the Russian oligarch. Kilimnik did not respond to requests for comment.
Referring to the journalist from the Kyiv Post, “I would ignore him,” Kilimnik wrote back, responding within minutes to reassure Manafort that it was just “a junior reporter” and nothing to worry about.
In the back-and-forth that followed, Kilimnik suggested that Manafort’s efforts to please Deripaska were succeeding.
“I am carefully optimistic on the issue of our biggest interest,” Kilimnik went on. “Our friend V said there is lately significantly more attention to the campaign in his boss’s mind, and he will be most likely looking for ways to reach out to you pretty soon, understanding all the time sensitivity. I am more than sure that it will be resolved and we will get back to the original relationship with V.’s boss.” The source close to Manafort confirmed that “V” is a reference to Victor, the Deripaska aide.
Manafort had spent several lucrative years working for Deripaska, both as a high-priced consultant-for-hire in former Soviet republics, and as an investor of Deripaska’s money before the collapse of their venture. Manafort jumped on the suggestion that the campaign might offer the opportunity to restore his relationship with Deripaska: “Tell V boss that if he needs private briefings we can accommodate,” he wrote back eight minutes later.
On July 8, the Kyiv Post story on Manafort and Black Sea Cable dropped, outlining in detail how Manafort’s investment on Deripaska’s behalf went “awry.” Kilimnik forwarded the story to Manafort, and added a note to soothe him. “Nothing new here, other than bad and shallow journalism,” he wrote. Manafort, however, seemed more concerned with what Deripaska might think. “You should cover V on this story and make certain that V understands that this is all BS,” Manafort writes, “and that the real facts are the ones we passed along last year.”
On July 29, a week after Trump accepted the Republican nomination, Manafort received another email from Kilimnik, this one with the subject line “Black Caviar.” “I met today with the guy who gave you your biggest black caviar jar several years ago,” Kilimnik wrote. “We spent about 5 hours talking about his story, and I have several important messages from him to you. He asked me to go and brief you on our conversation. I said I have to run it by you first, but in principle I am prepared to do it, provided that he buys me a ticket. It has to do about the future of his country, and is quite interesting. So, if you are not absolutely against the concept, please let me know which dates/places will work, even next week, and I could come and see you.”
Manafort agreed to the cryptic request, responding “Tuesday is best.”  
By this point, the correspondence between Manafort and Kilimnik had grown even more veiled. There was no longer mention of Victor or even V; the reference to Deripaska as OVD had fallen out. Yet there are two clues that may hint at the identity of the person whom Kilimnik describes as “the guy who gave you your biggest black caviar jar.” One is a reference to “his country,” apparently not the same as Kilimnik’s, who is from Ukraine. The second is the reference to jars of black caviar. Investigators believe that to be a reference to payments, The Washington Post reported.
On July 31, Kilimnik and Manafort corresponded again to firm up their plans for a dinner meeting in New York on August 2. “I need about two hours,” Kilimnik wrote to Manafort on July 31, “because it is a long caviar story to tell.”
According to The Washington Post, Manafort and Kilimnik met on August 2 at the Grand Havana Club, a Manhattan cigar club. Kilimnik told the Post that the two “discussed ‘unpaid bills’ and ‘current news.’ But he said the sessions were ‘private visits’ that were ‘in no way related to politics or the presidential campaign in the U.S.’” The emails preceding the meeting, however, suggest they had more than bills and news to discuss. Kilimnik had said he needed to relay a “long caviar story” and “several important messages” from his contact about the “future of his country.”
Just days before Kilimnik and Manafort met for cigars and caviar stories in Manhattan, Trump appeared at a campaign rally in Scranton, Pennsylvania. “Wouldn’t it be a great thing if we could get along with Russia?” he said.
Manafort was ousted from the Trump campaign later that month, following a New York Times report that Manafort’s name was listed in a secret ledger of cash payments from the ruling pro-Russian party in Ukraine, and detailing his failed venture with Deripaska. He submitted his resignation on August 19.


This morning, the Islamic State’s semi-official news agency, Amaq, took credit for the Las Vegas massacre, which killed 58 and wounded another 515. The likely killer, identified by police as 64-year-old Stephen Paddock of Mesquite, Nevada, was not known to be a supporter of the Islamic State, or indeed a Muslim of any type. For now, the only evidence that the Islamic State was involved is its own assurance—first a press release announcing that a “soldier of the Islamic State” executed the concertgoers, and a follow-up for the baffled, explaining that he converted to Islam months ago. The FBI has stated that it doesn’t believe the attack was related to international terrorism.
The sun has barely risen on Las Vegas, and there may be blood still slick on the Strip. Speculation about mass shootings in the hours after they occur is not just a fool’s game but an impatient fool’s. Evidence will be forthcoming, and these assertions by the Islamic State will be tested against reality. But already I hear a familiar chorus of doubt: The Islamic State will “take credit for anything,” it says, “even hurricanes.”
The doubters do not have a preponderance of prior examples on their side. The Islamic State does not claim natural disasters. Its supporters rejoice in them, but they reserve their official media for intentional acts. Of course, insurance agents and Christians, too, sometimes consider the weather “an act of God.”
The vast majority of the Islamic State’s claimed attacks were undertaken by men acting in its name, often after leaving short video statements confirming their intentions. The Amaq news agency is the preferred venue for the initial claim, usually within a day. (Sloppy reporters sometimes mistake the rejoicing of online supporters, meteorological or not, for an official claim.) If they were really so promiscuous with their claims, we would long since have ignored them, as we do claims from other yahoos who have tried to take credit for atrocities authored by others. The idea that the Islamic State simply scans the news in search of mass killings, then sends out press releases in hope of stealing glory, is false. Amaq may learn details of the attacks from mainstream media—and often gets those details wrong, also like mainstream media—but its claim of credit typically flows from an Amaq-specific source.
This Las Vegas claim may yet turn out to be false as well. They have offered no evidence—no cell-phone video from the killer, pledging allegiance in broken Arabic; no selfies of him, raising a finger of monotheism. Another absent sign of Islamic State involvement is videos from Paddock’s rifle-scope. At attacks like the Holey Bakery in Dhaka, Bangladesh, the killers have uploaded real-time images, exclusive and corroborating imagery for Amaq. As with many subsequently verified attacks, we have not yet, in these early hours, seen any such evidence.
If their claim is a rare false one, it will not even be the first false claim to feature a casino. In June, a gambling addict shot up and torched the Resorts World casino in Manila, Philippines. The Islamic State claimed credit, with a dubious follow-up alleging that Jessie Javier Carlos, 42, converted to Islam some months before, without telling anyone. That explanation appears to be a total lie. A false claim of credit in Las Vegas will effectively shred the Islamic State’s news agency’s credibility. It will become a news agency that was once reliable, and now associates itself indiscriminately with heavily armed crazy people in casinos.
I see little advantage in such a shift. When Amaq claims an attack, it makes itself hostage to the facts that are revealed in the follow-up investigation. Its supporters are cautiously cheering Paddock, but even they will be chagrined if (for example) a manifesto comes out revealing that Paddock was not a jihadist but a psychopathic Christian, or if it is revealed that his sniper’s nest was littered with titty mags and the rum bottles from the minibar. According to reports, Paddock had recently gambled heavily. Gambling ranks with drinking among Islamic vices. He also appears to have killed himself, rather than waiting to be gunned down in typical Islamic State style.
The on-camera pledges of allegiance to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi that have accompanied other ISIS claims of responsibility have the effect of wiping clean the history of the attackers—and preserving the credibility and reputation of the Islamic State. Porn and drinking can then be excused as habits of the past, even if the past was just last week. Having a clean perp, reborn as a soldier of the caliphate, makes the Amaq claim of credit safe, and unlikely to require regret later. As the facts emerge, we’ll see whether this killing spree ends up reminding us to take Amaq seriously, or demonstrating that its standards have slipped beyond recovery.


A somber President Trump mourned the victims of the Las Vegas attack and called it “an act of pure evil” during brief remarks at the White House late Monday morning.
Speaking directly from a prepared statement, the president reached for unity and struck a religious tone that is unusual for him, though more common when he reads prepared remarks. He ordered flags around the nation lowered to half-staff, and said he would travel to Las Vegas on Wednesday. Trump neither offered new information nor speculated on the motivation of the shooter, and he did not discuss the political or policy ramifications of the attack.
The Political World Reacts to the Las Vegas Massacre
“Hundreds of our fellow citizens are now mourning the sudden loss of a loved one, a parent, a child, a brother, or sister,” Trump said. “We cannot fathom their pain, we cannot imagine their loss. To the families of the victims, we are praying for you and we are here for you, and we ask God to help see you through this very dark period. Scripture teaches us the Lord is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit. We seek comfort in those words, for we know that God lives in the hearts of those who grieve.”
While Trump, like many politicians, often offers prayers, he seldom speaks about God in such explicit terms, and even less often quotes from scripture. Though he drew votes from many evangelicals, he is one of the least religiously steeped presidents in memory.
Trump added: “In times such as these, I know we are searching for some kind of meaning in the chaos, some kind of light in the darkness. The answers do not come easy. But we can take solace knowing that even the darkest space can be brightened by a single light and even the most terrible despair can be illuminated by a single ray of hope.”
The role of uniter does not come naturally to Trump. He often seems happiest when verbally jousting with rivals, even when they are the victims of a natural disaster like Hurricane Maria. After violence in Charlottesville, Trump infamously condemned violence “on all sides,” before emerging to deliver a carefully scripted statement two days later proclaiming, “Racism is evil.” (Within a day, he had veered back off script, endorsing a soft white supremacy.) But he has on occasion hit the note, as he seemed to do Monday.
“Our unity cannot be shattered by evil, our bonds cannot be broken by violence, and though we feel such great anger at the senseless murder of our fellow citizens, it is our love that defines us today, and always will forever,” he said.
A visit to Vegas adds to a busy week for the president, who had already announced plans to visit Puerto Rico on Tuesday, welcomes the prime minister of Thailand Monday, and is pushing tax reform on Capitol Hill.
The president praised the quick actions of the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department and other first responders, but he did not offer any new information about the motive of the man, named by police as Stephen Craig Paddock, who killed at least 58 people and injured hundreds more when he opened fire Sunday night. On Monday, ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack, though U.S. officials initially said they did not have any evidence connecting the shooter with the group. Trump has on occasion proved extremely eager to connect violence to motive, and especially to Islamist terrorism, both as a candidate and more recently as president. His quick attribution of attacks in London to Islamist terrorism have earned him rebukes from British officials. But Trump avoided the topic on Monday.
He also did not speak about gun violence per se. There were many mass shootings during Barack Obama’s presidency, and Obama, an advocate for tighter gun laws, often spoke about what he saw as the need for more regulation of guns. As I wrote in 2015, Obama’s sadness—he wept during a statement after 26 children and adults were slaughtered at a Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, in 2012—gradually became mixed with anger and despair. As the prospects for material changes to gun laws dimmed, Obama took on the role of social critic, advancing a theory of gun violence in the U.S. as a singular, unique phenomenon—the dark side of American exceptionalism. Trump, in contrast, has positioned himself as a staunch defender of gun rights. It is less obvious what policy prescription he might offer in the situation.
By the time Obama left office, he’d had so many opportunities to speak after mass shootings that he had become a de facto consoler-in-chief to the nation. That is a less natural role for Trump, who is loath to demonstrate empathy, but the president seemed to be striving for it Monday morning. He is certain to have plenty more opportunities to practice his response to shootings during his time in office.


The states just do it better.
That was the argument many Republicans made for the now-defunct Graham-Cassidy legislation, which would have repealed the Affordable Care Act and replaced it with federal grants that could be used as states saw fit. It is an argument they will likely continue making if and when they take another run at health-care legislation, and also as they try to transform other social programs. As Senator Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma put it to the news site Vox, “As a general rule, the states do things better than the federal government does.”
But there is little evidence that the states are more efficient administrators than Washington is, and some evidence that they might be less so. “The basic argument for state efficiency is based more on hopes and prayers than on clear evidence, across the board,” said Don Kettl, a professor of public policy at the University of Maryland. Delegating programs to the states would likely result in greater disparities in what programs offer and slimmer budgets overall, more than any radical improvements in efficiency.
As a general point, Kettl and other political scientists agree, despite its reputation for bureaucracy and incompetence, the federal government runs pretty well, and where it runs poorly it tends to be stifled by outdated rules and regulations. “The underlying argument is that the federal government is unwieldy and inefficient,” said Kettl. “That’s not true.”
Take the Social Security Administration, as slender and effective a bureaucracy as exists on earth. The organization makes monthly payments to 61 million beneficiaries, with a low error rate and overhead well below 1 percent of costs. Similarly, the Internal Revenue Service is a ruthlessly effective tax collector, when compared to those in other high-income countries and to the states. California spends 94 cents on overhead for every $100 of state tax revenue collected, for instance, with Great Britain spending 74 cents. The feds, on the other hand, spend less than 50 cents. Moreover, the federal bureaucracy functions with more oversight—powerful inspectors general, Congressional budget hawks and committee chairs, and the press sniffing around—than statehouses do, helping to reduce graft.
That said, it is not easy to compare the state and federal governments in terms of efficiency. For one, they tend to do different things, with federal dollars primarily spent on Social Security, health-insurance programs, and the military, and state dollars spent on education, health, transportation, prisons, and a variety of other priorities. “There are some types of things that state governments are good at handling, and other things the federal government is good at handling,” said Jason Sorens, the program director of the Political Economy Project at Dartmouth College. “There are some kinds of fiscal relationships between the federal and state governments that are more efficient than others, but that’s not the same thing as saying that states are more efficient than the federal government.”
Making them even harder to compare is the fact that states are often spending federal dollars and complying with federal regulations, blurring the line between state and national initiatives. “The federal government is like a giant ATM,” said Elaine Kamarck, the director of the Center for Effective Public Management at the Brookings Institution. “Scratch any state or local program and you’ll find federal money. This is why everyone’s decided government shutdowns are a real disaster. The two times it happens, everybody realizes it’s not just the national park that closes—it’s Catholic Charities and the drug treatment center down the road.”
Indeed, Medicaid—which Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana had hoped to turn into a block grant to the states—is one such federal-state partnership. The states already have latitude in spending federal dollars on the program; for example, Missouri chooses to fund “health homes” and Oregon puts money toward accountable care organizations.“These innovative models demonstrate that current Medicaid rules allow states significant flexibility,” argues Hannah Katch of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington-based think tank. What is more, the system has delivered high-quality care at a relatively low cost, both in administrative terms and in terms of spending per person. “States have actually been quite good at delivering health coverage efficiently through Medicaid,” said Larry Levitt of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health research group.
Given those dynamics, experts doubted that Graham-Cassidy or other repeal-and-replace efforts pushing responsibility to the states would yield much of an improvement. Rather, the block grants would have led states to ration care and drop participants from the rolls in order to meet federal budget cuts, such as the half a trillion dollars that Graham-Cassidy would have cut over 10 years. “In the health-care world, people have been looking for the magic bullet on efficiency for ages,” said Kamarck of Brookings. “They want computer health records. They want this, that, and the other. We haven’t found the magic bullet to reduce health-care costs. If Medicare and Medicaid and various state health programs have not been able to do so, I don’t think this would either.”
More broadly, turning programs over to the states tends to result in the 50 capitals pursuing varying policy priorities and achieving disparate policy outcomes—not in a sleeker, more efficient government. Look at what happened with welfare, or the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program, which was turned into a fixed block grant to the states during the Clinton administration and has become a Republican exemplar of the efficiency argument ever since. “In 1996, we block-granted money for welfare reform, and it worked like a charm,” Graham said at a news conference this month, making the case for his health-care legislation. “We put governors in charge of the program. We held them accountable.”
But the welfare rolls shrank mostly because states kicked people off of the program, not because the program got more effective and efficient. An initiative that used to cover 68 of every 100 families in poverty now reaches just 23 of every 100 with cash benefits, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities has found. Plus, given more flexibility and authority, states started using the money for initiatives other than cash benefits for poor mothers, such as early-childhood education and job training. That led to wide state-by-state differences in program outcomes. California covers 65 out of every 100 families in poverty with cash benefits under TANF, for instance, while Louisiana covers just four.
Much might be the same if Congress block-granted Medicaid or food stamps. “If you delegate to the states, the only thing you can be sure of is big disparities,” said Kettl. The efficiency argument, it turns out, is more about political philosophy than policy expediency, more about federalism than management, and more about limiting government spending than making government work.


The man who opened fire at a music festival in Las Vegas Sunday night notched a ghoulish milestone with the bloodiest mass shooting in American history. But if his attack was unusual in its efficacy, it was less innovative for its approach of killing concertgoers.
In May, an Islamist terrorist killed 22 people at an Ariana Grande concert in Manchester, England. In November 2015, 89 people died in a massacre at the Bataclan in Paris, during a show by the Eagles of Death Metal. Widen the scope just a little farther, and even more examples of killing at cultural events pop up, from the Pulse nightclub shooting in 2016 to James Holmes’s massacre at a 2012 showing of The Dark Knight Rises in suburban Denver.
Attacks in concerts, or in nightclubs and movie theaters, bring with them a special horror, as Alyssa Rosenberg wrote after the Manchester bombing. An attack on an airport is horrific, she noted, but no one chooses to go to an airport in their spare time: It’s either a workplace or a waystation. “By contrast, we choose to go to concerts, to the movies, to sporting arenas and to dinner because of the pleasure they bring us, and the communion we feel in the presence of our community, whether gay men in Orlando or soccer friends in Paris,” she wrote.
That horror is clear not only to attendees, but to attackers. It’s not a surprise that since the Bataclan massacre, which introduced the concert as a tool of modern terror, there have been two bloody attacks on concerts, one in Britain and one in the United States. That there will be more is a virtual certainty. This is because terrorists and other perpetrators of mass violence, whatever their motives, see what works and adopt it. Widespread press attention, which is itself a main goal of mass-casualty attacks, brings public awareness to the methods and can help inform would-be future attackers.
(It is too early to know what motivated the shooter in Las Vegas, whom police identified as Stephen Craig Paddock and said killed himself. ISIS has claimed responsibility for the attack, though as of yet U.S. officials said they had uncovered no links between the shooter and the group.)
“In the United States, school shooters study other school shooters, in particular Columbine,” Peter Bergen, a terrorism scholar at New America, told The Washington Post after the Paris attack. “This is true of terrorists as well. They study tactics that have worked before.”
At that time, Brookings Institution scholar Will McCants warned that terrorism experts were concerned that Paris would augur a shift toward greater use of firearms instead of bombs. “That sounds counterintuitive, but when you’re building the bomb, there’s usually a lot of people involved and you have to buy material that the government has monitored, so it’s easier to identify and disrupt a plot that involves a bomb,” McCants told the Post.
Incidents like Las Vegas, the Pulse shooting, and the 2015 shootings in San Bernadino, California, confirm the lethality of guns, but the dissemination of new tactics has been most apparent over the last two years in the increase in attacks that use trucks or cars not as transportation for bombs but as weapons themselves.
As Colin P. Clarke and Louis Klarevas wrote in The Atlantic in June, the most recent iteration of the tactic seems to have originated in a 2010 issue of Inspire, the magazine published by Al-Qaeda’s Yemeni affiliate. In recent years, vehicle attacks have proliferated widely, from the Middle East to Europe to the United States. Some of the worst include Nice, France, Berlin, and London, though smaller attacks have killed and injured many people elsewhere, including cases that largely escaped widespread attention in places like Quebec or Columbus, Ohio.
The logic behind these attacks is straightforward enough: As authorities have hardened other systems, hijackings have become harder to execute. Guns can be difficult to acquire, depending on where one is. Bombs are dangerous and unpredictable. But almost anyone can get a vehicle and find a crowd. Many of these ramming attacks have been perpetrated by people who claim allegiance to ISIS, but who seem to have had little or no direct contact with ISIS commanders. It’s very easy to learn the technique and act on it without having to travel to a training camp or even undertake risky communication with wanted terrorists.
It’s not just radical Islamist terrorists, though. In June, a man in London rammed a van into congregants at a mosque, reportedly shouting, “I want to kill all Muslims.” Once a tactic’s efficacy has been proven, there’s no reason why only Islamist terrorists would use it. As Mitch Silber, former director of analysis at the New York Police Department, told The Cipher Brief in September:
Showing that a terrorist attack could be very deadly, driving a van and using a knife, makes the argument that even if you prevented or blocked the knowledge about how to make these devices, you still wouldn’t eliminate and maybe not even reduce the threat. So there is really not much that can be done to take away that knowledge once it’s out there, whether it’s on the internet or in the library. Once knowledge is out in the public domain, you can’t put it back in the box. Law enforcement and intelligence can’t monitor everyone who looks at an instruction manual. It’s an overwhelming task.
The spread of ramming attacks and concert shootings follows the pattern followed by other, earlier terrorist tactics. Hezbollah pioneered the modern mass suicide attack in 1983 in Lebanon, with the bombings of the U.S. Embassy and then a U.S. Marine barrack.
For a time, the method spread slowly. Notably, researcher Robert Pape notes, several Tamil Tiger fighters were training in Hezbollah camps at the time of those bombings, and they exported the idea back to Sri Lanka, where suicide bombings became a signature weapon in the island’s bloody civil war. For a time, suicide bombings did not spread widely, but since September 11 and the American invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq, they have become more frequent.
Hezbollah’s suicide truck bombings were, in turn, a variation on the car bomb, an older technique pioneered in the United States, with a 1920 anarchist attack on Wall Street, and adopted around the world.
As my colleague Julia Ioffe wrote after the violence in Charlottesville in August, whether someone is drawn to violence through religious belief, racial animus, or any other motive, the radicalization process tends to follow a consistent and predictable pattern. That is not the only thing that violent attackers, regardless of motive, success, or location, have in common. The growing log of attacks also provides all of them a base of knowledge from which to draw techniques and plan their own.


There is nothing more to be said about the depth of Donald Trump’s ignorance or his more consequential lack of character—his selfishness, his cruelty, his caprice, his vanity, his vindictiveness, his malignant narcissism. We know all that. What is more interesting is what it will yield.
Last Friday, he kicked off his weekend by firing off a set of abusive tweets at Carmen Yulin Cruz, the beleaguered mayor of San Juan, Puerto Rico. The explanation was not hard to glean: the U.S. territory is a disaster zone in the wake of the devastation wrought by Hurricane Maria; he had not paid much attention to the sufferings of several million Americans for reasons easily guessed, and took a bludgeoning in the media for his negligence. And so after Cruz insisted that the plight of her city wasn’t “a good news story,” Trump decided to heap abuse on the strained leader of a suffering city. A decent president who thought Mayor Cruz’s reproaches unjustified would have gently ignored them, and perhaps pointed out what the federal government has done and can do for Puerto Rico. But then again, a decent man would not have repeatedly sneered at and damned an 81-year-old war hero with a lethal cancer.
The consequences of Trump’s preference for picking fights with some black football players rather than seeing what could be done about Spanish-speaking victims of a hurricane will be felt in predictable ways. One may expect angry voters of Hispanic extraction to exact a price at the ballot box. But his weekend tweets about his Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson, will have consequences that may be longer term and considerably darker.
In a series of tweets on Sunday, Trump sneered at Tillerson’s diplomatic efforts to engage with North Korea, which other members of the foreign policy apparatus (to include the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs) have dutifully and appropriately supported. “I told Rex Tillerson, our wonderful Secretary of State, that he is wasting his time trying to negotiate with Little Rocket Man...Save your energy, Rex, we’ll do what has to be done! Being nice to Rocket Man hasn't worked in 25 years, why would it work now? Clinton failed, Bush failed, and Obama failed. I won't fail.”
There are two things at work here. Trump has emasculated his secretary of state, who clearly does not speak for the administration. Some of Tillerson’s predecessors have fallen out of favor with their presidents, but none has been so undercut in such a public, dismissive way. And if Trump is serious, this means war, and a war to eliminate North Korea’s nuclear weapons could lead not only to the devastation of much of the Korean peninsula, but the first use of such weapons—by the United States as likely as by the North Koreans—since 1945.
There is no middle path between some combination of deterrence, containment, sanctions, covert action, and threats of preemption directed at North Korea, on the one hand, and a preventive war on the other. The forces impelling Pyongyang to acquire nuclear weapons are strong, and go well beyond the vanity of the grandson of the country’s founder. For a dictatorship whose slogan of self-reliance is national dogma, nuclear weapons are the ultimate source of autonomy in a world of wealthier and presumably hostile states. Nor will China squeeze Kim Jong Un hard enough to make him yield. It does not want chaos on its southern border. It does not want a unified Korea aligned with the United States. And above all, it does not intend to act, or be seen to act, as America’s sheriff.
Trump has chosen to say, and compel those who speak for him to say, that North Korea’s possession of nuclear weapons and threats leveled against the United States are themselves a casus belli. Yet Pyongyang has nuclear weapons and has threatened the United States. He has now repeatedly insisted that he will resolve the problem that has bedeviled three of his predecessors, and has made it clear that diplomacy is not the way. That leaves either North Korea’s surrender, which will not happen, or war, or another broken promise.
The incalculable costs of war could include the loss of hundreds of thousands of Korean lives, and the loss of many thousands of U.S. soldiers and civilians, including military dependents in Korea. It could well bring about a Chinese intervention and direct confrontation with Beijing. It would shatter what remaining confidence America’s allies have in Washington’s good judgment.
A climb down, however, will be far worse than Obama’s abortive red line in Syria, as bad as that was. Trump will have shown, once and forever, that he is a blowhard tapping out empty threats on Twitter. On his watch the United States can and will be defied with impunity. And again, what remains of American credibility pretty much anywhere will vanish.
Against such large stakes, the humiliation of one more senior staff or cabinet member may not seem like a big deal. But it is. Tillerson has to quit. His boss has publicly and mockingly stripped him of his credibility as the chief diplomat of the United States. As an envoy, he is useless, because he will speak only for himself and the tiny embattled coterie of aides that surround him. Having taken a pickaxe to the department entrusted to his care, his departure would do the battered State Department some good, as well as enabling him to salvage what remains of his dignity.
But Tillerson may very well stay on, as others have until Trump has decided that it’s more fun to kick them out than simply to kick them. If he does remain, it will be yet another sign of the collapse of self respect among those who are now willing to serve in senior positions in government. Dean Acheson or George Shultz would never have tolerated such treatment; neither would Condoleezza Rice or Madeleine Albright. And not one of them would have let desperation to cling to office delude them into thinking that patriotism motivated and justified their tolerance of the president’s swinging boot.
What will be left are men and women with pliable spines (if they had them to begin with) or those, such as Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, who are natural sycophants, willing to parrot whatever absurdity the reality television star for whom they work ordains. No one will be immune from the test of character that would lead someone with self respect to tell the president, “This is intolerable. I quit.” It is a puny test at that. None of those facing it risk financial loss, physical peril, or jeopardy to their spouse or children by acting with a backbone. But it is a safe bet that most of them will fail it, ignominiously.
An administration is not just a president, but a vast team, led by a score or so of senior officers of the government. What the Tillerson test may reveal is what a pathetic group most of them are. And the surrender or war over Korea that may follow will be but one part, however distressing or bloody, of the price this country will pay for a government administered by moral weaklings and lickspittles.


Updated on October 2 at 11:00 a.m. ET
Statements of shock and grief poured in from the White House and Capitol Hill Monday morning in the first hours after a gunman in Las Vegas killed at least 50 people and injured more than 200 others in the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history.
“My fellow Americans, we are joined together today in sadness, shock, and grief,” President Trump said from the White House in televised remarks shortly before 11 a.m. “It was an act of pure evil.” The president said he planned to visit Las Vegas on Wednesday, a day after he is scheduled to be in Puerto Rico to assess the government’s response to the devastation of Hurricane Maria. In somber, scripted remarks, Trump did not speculate on a motive for the attack and said people were understandably searching “for some kind of meaning in the chaos, some kind of light in the darkness.”
“The answers,” the president said, “do not come easy.”
A gunman identified by police as Stephen Paddock, a 64-year-old Nevada resident, opened fire on an outdoor country-music concert on the Vegas strip from his hotel room on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino. Clark County Sheriff Joseph Lombardo described Paddock, who began shooting at roughly 10 p.m. local time on Sunday, as a “lone-wolf-type actor,” and the department said he was found dead in his room.
The Worst Mass Shooting in Modern American History
“My thoughts and prayers are with the families of those killed and wounded in last night’s vicious and senseless attack outside the Mandalay Bay Resort,” Nevada Democratic Senator Catherine Cortez Masto said. “I thank the first responders for taking down the gunman and working tirelessly to treat the wounded.” Nevada’s other senator, Republican Dean Heller, offered similar sentiments.
With little immediate information about a possible motive for the attack, members of Congress in both parties largely avoided overt political statements in their initial reactions other than to bemoan a style of attack that has become all too common in the last decade. “The nation’s conscience must be galvanized,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, who along with other Democrats campaigned for stricter gun-control laws after the deadly 2012 shooting at an elementary school in his home state.
Blumenthal’s Connecticut colleague, Democratic Senator Chris Murphy, was the exception, calling out Congress in blunt terms for its failure to restrict access to guns. “This must stop,” he said in a statement. He continued:
It is positively infuriating that my colleagues in Congress are so afraid of the gun industry that they pretend there aren’t public policy responses to this epidemic. There are, and the thoughts and prayers of politicians are cruelly hollow if they are paired with continued legislative indifference. It’s time for Congress to get off its ass and do something.
Republicans who advocate for looser gun restrictions are in power on Capitol Hill and in the White House. After recent shootings like the massacre that killed 49 people at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando last year, Democrats have pushed unsuccessfully for laws strengthening background checks and prohibiting assault weapons. Many GOP lawmakers, however, want to go in the opposite direction and make it easier for people to use firearms in self-defense. “Once again a nation mourns and Congress will observe a moment of silence,” lamented Representative Gerry Connolly, a Virginia Democrat.
Gabby Giffords, the former Arizona congresswoman who was shot during a district event in 2011, tweeted Monday morning that she was “heartbroken” by the scene in Las Vegas. “No person should endure the horror Las Vegas experienced last night,” she said. Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the senior House Republican seriously wounded at a congressional baseball practice in June, had just returned to the Capitol on Friday for the first time since he was shot. “Jennifer and I are praying for the victims of this unspeakable violence in Las Vegas,” he tweeted.
Former President Barack Obama, who could not persuade Republicans to budge from their opposition to tighter gun control, said he and former First Lady Michelle Obama were praying for the victims. But he withheld the call for Congress to act that he issued repeatedly during his final years in office. “Our thoughts are with their families & everyone enduring another senseless tragedy,” the ex-president tweeted.
Hillary Clinton was not so reluctant. “Our grief isn't enough,” the former secretary of state and 2016 Democratic presidential nominee said in a series of tweets. “We can and must put politics aside, stand up to the NRA, and work together to try to stop this from happening again.”


A group of pro-Trump media figures are launching a super PAC aimed at making an impact in the 2018 midterms.
Jeff Giesea, Mike Cernovich, and Jack Posobiec, organizers of the “Deploraball” party to celebrate President Trump’s inauguration earlier this year, are behind the super PAC, which is being called #Rev18. All three are known quantities in the pro-Trump alternative media that emerged during the campaign and presidency, powered by Trump’s rise; they have since distanced itself from more extreme alt-right figures, often favoring the term “new right.” Cernovich has become known as an occasional breaker of news about the White House, while Posobiec rose to prominence after playing a key role in the #MacronLeaks story.
The trio plans to back anti-establishment primary challengers in the midterms.
“Our goal is to top-grade the GOP,” Giesea said in a press release the group will release on Monday. “This means defeating entrenched establishment politicians and replacing them with candidates who support American sovereignty and prosperity, and who put the American citizen first.” The group’s first endorsement is of Josh Mandel, the Senate candidate in Ohio, who is one of three Republican primary candidates there.
The mission is of a piece with what other figures in the Trump base are trying to do this election cycle. Steve Bannon, the former White House chief strategist who has returned to the helm of Breitbart News, backed Roy Moore in the Alabama Senate primary; Moore’s victory, as well as the retirement of Breitbart target Senator Bob Corker, has emboldened Bannon in his plans to back other insurgent primary challengers against establishment candidates.
Giesea filed the super PAC paperwork with the Federal Election Commission last month. “The board is me, Mike, and Jack for now,” Giesea said in an email. “We have an expanded board of advisors who are helping and which we’ll announce later.”
Giesea, who at one point worked for Trump donor Peter Thiel at Thiel Capital Management, said the trio expects to attract big donors but has not done so yet.
“I’m the first donor with a 50k personal investment,” he wrote. “We expect major donors come in soon but we want to prove the model and get the grassroots involved first. It’s safe to say we are broadly aligned with Team Bannon.”
Asked whether someone like Thiel might get involved, Giesea said “Not naming names but certainly Thiel and Mercers would be fits. We’re hoping to broaden the base of contributors as well.”
Bannon’s efforts have a powerful donor family backing them: the Mercers, his political patrons, who have invested in Breitbart and who are some of the most important donors in Trumpworld. The New York Times reported last week that Bannon has secured the Mercers’ backing for a “political coalition” similar to that of the Koch brothers, designed to support candidates running against the Republican establishment.
Bannon is already tied to a pro-Trump super PAC that was involved in the Alabama race, Great America Alliance. His former political advisor in the White House is now a senior advisor with Great America.
Giesea, Cernovich, and Posobiec’s effort is notable as one of the first forays of the mostly atomized, online pro-Trump movement into standard electoral politics. The three, particularly Cernovich and Posobiec, have mostly been viewed as consigned to the margins of the political sphere.
It’s also a sign of the Trump movement’s growing independence from Trump himself. The Alabama result showed that Trumpism can survive and thrive even when Trump doesn’t; Giesea, in the group’s press release, emphasizes this, saying “#Rev18 is not a cult of personality. Our loyalty is to the America First agenda Trump ran on and the movement he galvanized more than to Trump himself.”


On Tuesday, the Supreme Court will consider whether state legislatures violate the Constitution by deliberately drawing legislative districts for partisan advantage.
The ghosts of Justices Felix Frankfurter and William Brennan will be hovering behind the bench.
Those two judicial antagonists fought their last duel on March 26, 1962. Frankfurter was incensed that day, because his colleagues had voted, 6-2, to ignore a warning he had written 16 years earlier.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
The new case was Baker v. Carr, a challenge by Tennessee voters to the grossly inequitable districts from which their legislators were elected. Tennessee lawmakers had not redrawn districts in more than half a century. In that time, the state’s population had nearly doubled, with most of the growth taking place in urban areas. In On Democracy’s Doorstep: The Inside Story of How the Supreme Court Brought "One Person, One Vote" to the United States, J. Douglas Smith recounts how the political efforts of urban voters to to change the system failed; rural legislators refused to undermine their own power. The voters finally turned to the federal courts, alleging that, by undervaluing urban votes, the system violated their Fourteenth Amendment right to “the equal protection of the laws.”
Standing in their way was Frankfurter’s 1946 opinion Colegrove v. Green, which rejected the identical claim from a group of Illinois voters. The vote in Colegrove was 4-3 (the court was short two justices); Frankfurter’s opinion, for only three of the four-justice majority, argued that inequality of representation was an issue “of a peculiarly political nature and therefore not meet for judicial determination.” He added, “Courts ought not to enter this political thicket.”
After hearing argument twice in Baker v. Carr, however, the justices voted 7-2 for a different result. No more would malapportionment be a “political question”: courts could hear and decide challenges like that of the Tennessee voters.
That decision didn’t resolve the Tennessee challenge; it simply told the lower court that it could hear evidence and make a decision. Even so, no one at the time regarded this as an easy question. In fact, Justice Charles Evans Whittaker, agonized by the deliberations in Baker, suffered a nervous breakdown, recused himself from the case, and eventually resigned his seat.
Justice Brennan, however, wrote for the majority with his customary confidence. “Judicial standards under the Equal Protection Clause are well developed and familiar,” he wrote, “and it has been open to courts since the enactment of the Fourteenth Amendment to determine, if on the particular facts they must, that a discrimination reflects no policy, but simply arbitrary and capricious action.”
As scholar Mel Urofsky reports in his book Dissent and the Supreme Court, Frankfurter began his oral dissent with a bitter prophecy: “Today the Court begins a process of litigation that it requires no prophet to say—and Cassandra was sometimes right—will outlast the life of the youngest member of this Court.”
A month later, Frankfurter suffered a stroke; in August 1962, he resigned. Meanwhile, Urofsky reports, “His prophecies of a judicial nightmare never materialized. Although the entrenched state legislators fought to prevent reapportionment, once it happened and a majority population controlled a majority of legislative seats, opposition died out.”
On Tuesday, the court will face another similar choice: should it proclaim an equal protection rule against partisan gerrymandering, or walk away from the issue as a “political thicket?” As in Baker v. Carr, the question is whether there is a rule that will end the practice without embroiling the courts in constant litigation they will have no reliable way to decide.
Like the challengers in Baker v. Carr, the challengers in Gill—voters in Wisconsin—are confronted with an apparently adverse precedent a decade and a half old: Vieth v. Jubelirer, a 2004 challenge to U.S. House districts in Pennsylvania carefully drawn to shift congressional seats from Democratic to Republican control. The challenge failed: four of the nine justices voted for a per se rule that partisan-districting challenges were always “political questions.” Justice Antonin Scalia wrote for these four that “no judicially discernible and manageable standards for adjudicating political gerrymandering claims have emerged.” Justices John Paul Stevens, David Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and Stephen Breyer, in three separate dissents, disagreed, proposing three different possible standards.
Determining the result, as so often, was Justice Anthony Kennedy. Kennedy agreed that the plaintiffs in Vieth had not proposed a workable test. However, he said, “I would not foreclose all possibility of judicial relief if some limited and precise rationale were found to correct an established violation of the Constitution in some redistricting cases.”
This is very similar to the result in Colegrove v. Green, in which Frankfurter wrote for three justices. Three justices joined a dissent written by Justice Hugo Black, who would have moved forward with the plaintiffs’ challenge. The deciding vote came from Justice Wiley Rutledge, who said that apportionment cases were “justiciable,” but that the short time remaining before the election meant that in that particular case “the cure sought may be worse than the disease.”
That brings us to Tuesday’s argument. The plaintiffs in Gill have presented the strongest possible evidence of a deliberate plan by the Republican Party, after its victory in the 2010 elections, to skew the state’s districts to lock in their power for the foreseeable future. (Robert Barnes of The Washington Post provides a readable summary of the evidence.) A three-judge federal court (of the kind that hears districting cases) concluded, 2-1, that the legislature had drawn the plan with the intention of locking Democrats out of power.  The majority announced this test:
The First Amendment and the Equal Protection clause prohibit a redistricting scheme which (1) is intended to place a severe impediment on the effectiveness of the votes of individual citizens on the basis of their political affiliation, (2) has that effect, and (3) cannot be justified on other, legitimate legislative grounds.
The court based this conclusion, in part, on studies that showed a new measure called the “efficiency gap” (EG)—which shows how many votes each party’s voters “waste” because they are cast in districts where the other party has won. (Eric McGhee, one of two statisticians who developed the “gap” measure, explained that “wasted” votes...
...include any votes cast for a losing candidate, as well as those cast for a winner in excess of the number required to win. ... Parties that gerrymander try to saddle the opposing party with more wasted votes by ‘packing’ that party’s supporters into a small number of districts it will win handily and ‘cracking’ the rest into districts that the party narrowly loses. The EG is just a summation of all the packing and cracking in a plan.
The majority in the lower court relied on the EG, and other measures, to conclude that its “unjustifiable, intentional impediment” test was met, and that Wisconsin’s districts were unconstitutional.
At the Supreme Court level, Wisconsin’s government argues that the new test is merely a plea for “proportional representation,” where seats would be awarded not in winner-take-all elections but by the overall proportion of the vote. In addition, the state government argues that the legislature’s districts can’t be gerrymanders because they are “traditional districts”—in essence, they don’t look any different from districts that might have produced more Democratic winners.  Gerrymanders are odd and funny-looking, the argument implies. In addition, the state argues that the plaintiffs lack “standing to sue” because they are challenging the statewide map rather than only their own districts.
As a matter of short-term partisan interest, the Republican party stands to benefit tremendously from a victory for Wisconsin. Long-term interest, however, may be different. The Wisconsin Republican Party is Hannibal Lecter today, but could be a chalk outline in ten years. (By some measures, Maryland, the solid-blue state where I work, is one of the most gerrymandered states in the Union—enthusiastically and skillfully districted to produce Democratic majorities in legislature and the federal House delegation.) No one disputes that partisan districting has grown more ruthless and effective over the past quarter-century, as statistical expertise, demographic sophistication, and computer algorithms have grown more powerful. A Supreme Court decision for Wisconsin will encourage even more extreme district-rigging on both sides.
On Tuesday, some of the justices will hear the ghost of Felix Frankfurter whispering like Cassandra in their ears. The robust voice of William Brennan, however, will counsel courage.
For all his brilliance, Frankfurter’s deference and dithering made little long-term impression on the law. Brennan, meanwhile, is despised by conservatives for his liberalism—but few of them question his influence. “He is probably the most influential justice of the century,” Justice Antonin Scalia said in 1996. Brennan’s judicial tests tend to survive because they are workable and lawyer-like. Baker v. Carr did not plunge the court into an impassable thicket, and it shaped the U.S. into a modern democracy. That democracy is now threatened by the creativity of partisan hackery.
Gill will show us whether the Roberts Court has the intelligence to find a remedy, and the courage to apply it.


Seven years after Republicans first seized on the unruly rise of the Tea Party as a vehicle for winning elections, GOP leaders are confronting a stark reality: They have lost all control and comprehension of the populist movement they were supposed to be marshaling—and they may soon be facing a mutiny.
The volatile dynamic inside the Republican Party was thrown into sharp relief last week when Roy Moore—a fringe relic of the fading religious right—emerged victorious in Alabama’s GOP Senate primary, defeating the establishment incumbent President Trump had endorsed.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
With the dust still settling, many Washington Republicans are mystified—and alarmed—by the fact that not even Donald “Drain the Swamp” Trump had enough populist cred to swing a primary race to his candidate in deep-red Alabama. While the GOP’s class of professional strategists are generally ambivalent at best when it comes to the president, they had taken a certain comfort in believing that he was fully in command of his base. The assumption allowed them to draw conclusions about what his voters wanted, how to cater to them—and how to avoid drawing their wrath.
But Alabama fully punctured the illusion that Trump was in control. For all the race’s idiosyncrasies—Trump’s endorsement of the more establishment-friendly candidate was uncharacteristic for him, and his support often seemed conflicted—it seemed to reveal that there was a limit to his supporters’ loyalty.  
“Trump seems uniquely able to give voice to voters’ anger, but incapable of channeling it towards a larger purpose,” said Alex Conant, a Republican strategist whose firm released a client memo on Friday featuring data that suggested the president’s endorsement had no impact whatsoever in the Alabama race.
At this point, Conant said, no one can predict how the roiling anger in the conservative electorate will manifest itself during next year’s midterms—but it’s unlikely it will subside anytime soon. “We need to be honest about the fact that there are some powerful people inside the Republican Party who have no interest in governing,” he told me. “They’re focused like a laser on decapitating the party’s leadership, and have no interest in growing the party’s base into a lasting majority.” The resulting dysfunction, he said, will only further inflame voters’ frustrations.
Over the past quarter-century, Republican politics have routinely been upended by angry populist outbursts of this sort—from the rise of Ross Perot to the revolt of the religious right, from the Tea Party wave to the Trump insurgency. Inevitably, these episodes set off a stampede of opportunistic politicians, pollsters, and policy wonks rushing to co-opt the phenomenon and use it to advance some ideological agenda. In just the past few years, politicians as varied as House Speaker Paul Ryan, Texas Senator Ted Cruz, Trump, and Moore have tried to lay claim to the conservative movement—with each arguing that their vision is the one that mad-as-hell voters are crying out for.
But Nick Everhart, a GOP media consultant who has worked for dozens of Tea Party-aligned campaigns over the years, said there’s little use in trying to explain the unpredictable behavior of the conservative base with issues or ideology. “The idea that these movements are driven by any kind of intellectual, structured thing is ridiculous. They’re always a backlash to the moment,” he told me, adding: “Trump corralled the angry masses for himself. Other candidates with or without the president’s endorsement will also corral that mob for their needs.”
That sentiment was echoed by Reed Galen, a political consultant who served as Arizona Senator John McCain’s deputy campaign manager in the 2008 presidential race. “None of this is based on ideology or shared purpose,” he said. “The activist, angry wing of the GOP … doesn’t care about progress or making America great again. It lives and breathes on anger and resentment. That’s a difficult movement to direct and control.”
Trygve Olson, a former adviser to Kentucky Senator Rand Paul, attributed the anger in the conservative movement largely to the efforts of a “right-wing outrage complex” that profits from its audience’s grievance. In the past, he said, the GOP has been able to keep populist anger in check with policy concessions and savvy messaging aimed at the base. This time, however, Olson believes there could be a much larger “fracturing” of the Republican coalition—one that extends beyond policy. “If this eruption is about differences in core values, which I believe is the case, it becomes hard for coalition members that don’t share any underlying values to stay together,” he said.
Not everyone in the Republican Party is quite so apocalyptic about the current state of affairs. Greg Mueller, a conservative media strategist who worked for Pat Buchanan’s insurgent presidential campaigns in the 1990s, told me it shouldn’t be any mystery why voters are lashing out—and added that it’s not too late to appease them.
“Since 2010, the GOP has [run] in every election promising to repeal and replace Obamacare, secure the border, provide tax reform and relief, end taxpayer funding of abortion, appoint constitutionalist judges, and grow the economy again,” Mueller said. “Other than confirming Justice [Neil] Gorsuch, the GOP so far has nothing to show for earning the majority.” The lack of progress on these campaign promises, he said, has left voters “feeling they’ve been had.”
In the wake of Moore’s victory in Alabama, many liberals have argued that GOP leaders—frantic and frightened at the prospect of more ugly primary upsets—are simply reaping the whirlwind after years of cynically stoking anger and resentment among conservative voters. But it isn’t just the denizens of the D.C. establishment who admit that they’ve lost touch with their party’s base.   
I spoke with one Republican consultant who has made a career out of getting anti-establishment right-wingers elected to office. As he surveys the political landscape now, he told me (on condition of anonymity), one thing has become clear: He and his fellow Tea Party whisperers are really just guessing when they say they know what “the base” wants.
“It’s all bullshit,” he said. “So much of [what we do] is predicated on control, and saying that we understand how it works. Nobody clearly does. Nobody’s in control.”


There are any number of provisions that could bring down the far-reaching Republican tax plan between now and when the House and Senate hope to vote on the legislation later this fall.
But one proposal in particular has quickly become a political land mine for the GOP, and whether it makes it into the final bill could determine if the legislation passes or fails and whether millions of Americans in several of the nation’s largest states see a tax cut or a tax increase as a result. To offset the enormous cost of reducing tax rates for the wealthy and businesses, top Republicans want to prohibit people from deducting their state and local taxes from their federal bill.
This would be a windfall for the government: $1.4 trillion in revenue over a decade, according to one estimate from a conservative think tank. But it would hit hardest middle-income Americans in the highest-tax states of California, New York, Illinois, and New Jersey. Those all happen to be Democratic states, which have become a frequent target for the Republicans who control Congress. But they still present a legislative math problem for House leaders, who must rely on votes from the 35 GOP representatives from those states to cobble together a majority of 218 for passage of the tax bill. And the provision casts serious doubt on a crucial talking point for President Trump and congressional Republicans: that their plan would reduce taxes at all levels and benefit the middle class—and not the wealthy—the most.
A Reckoning for the GOP's Go-It-Alone Legislative Strategy
“From what I can see, it would definitely hurt most of my constituents,” Representative Peter King of New York told me. The Long Island Republican has taken a firm position opposing elimination of the state-and-local deduction, sometimes referred to by the acronym SALT. And he’s helped mobilize lawmakers from the Northeast who don’t want their constituents to shoulder the burden so that the rest of the country can get a tax cut.
“The cost of living is higher in the Northeast. That’s just a fact,” said Republican Representative Tom MacArthur of New Jersey, who brokered a compromise in the House on health care earlier this year but is now fighting the leadership on taxes. “It’s not some choice of people in the Northeast, and to tax them on dollars they no longer have, because they’ve paid it to their state and to their local community, is patently unfair.”
The battle over the state and local deduction epitomizes the quandary facing GOP leaders on tax reform. To fulfill their goal of simplifying the tax code and lowering rates, they must raise revenue elsewhere by eliminating loopholes and deductions—most of which are well established and popular to constituencies large and small. House Speaker Paul Ryan has already lost out on his proposal for a border-adjustment tax, which would have raised about $1 trillion over 10 years but was opposed by conservatives. And the party is trying to protect the deductions for charitable giving and mortgage interest. The state and local deduction is the biggest and most lucrative one remaining.
It’s an accepted truth among Republicans that any attempt at broad-based reform will face intense lobbying from business interests trying to protect provisions in the complicated code that benefit them. But the state and local deduction is different because it lowers taxes not for a specific industry, but for the populations of entire cities and states—or at least those who itemize their taxes rather than take the standard deduction.
The argument against allowing people to deduct state and local taxes off their federal bill is that the policy acts as a subsidy for those states. “I don't think it's fair that a bunch of other states are subsidizing New York and California,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” while noting that he’s “sympathetic” to the concerns of local officials.
Ryan and other GOP leaders have urged rank-and-file lawmakers to steel themselves for the lobbying deluge, and to resist critics who would stand in the way of what they’ve called “once-in-a-generation” tax reform. A sizable number of Republicans want the party to sidestep the less popular aspects of reform and stick to tax cuts, which would probably be easier to pass politically. But that would mean increasing the deficit much more than Republicans already plan to do, which could run afoul of the Senate’s current budget rules and its remaining GOP fiscal hawks.
“The big question first will be: Will Congress have the intestinal fortitude to actually do the base-broadening?” asked Senator Bob Corker, the Tennessee Republican who announced last week that he will retire at the end of his term next year. “Will we have the ability to look people in the eye and say, ‘No, we’re cutting out that loophole because we want to get rates low’? That’ll be the first test.”
While Republicans like Senator Ted Cruz of Texas have said the party should be “unapologetic” about cutting taxes even if it means adding to the deficit, Corker has drawn a much harder line. “With realistic growth projections, it cannot produce a deficit,” he told reporters last week. “There’s no way in hell I’m voting for that.”
Corker added: “There may be some people that are stepping away from fiscal sanity, but there are many of us that will not.”
Do Republicans sacrifice the deficit by keeping the state and local deduction? Or do they forge ahead with eliminating it, risking the votes of dozens of members from blue states and potentially the entire bill?
So far, they appear divided. While the deduction is not mentioned specifically in the framework unveiled last week, Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, told reporters that the current plan was to get rid of it. However, Brady’s counterpart on the Senate Finance Committee, Chairman Orrin Hatch of Utah, separately told reporters he hoped to keep it.
In private meetings, House leaders are urging Republicans from Northeast states to “keep an open mind” about the proposal. They’ve argued that plans to nearly double the standard deduction, from $12,700 to $24,000 for a married couple, would offset the loss of the state and local deduction. That appeared to have won over Representative Chris Collins of New York, who said that the vast majority of people would therefore take the standard deduction instead of itemizing and that those who might be worse off would be people paying steep property taxes on “million-dollar homes.” But local tax officials and budget experts who have crunched the numbers say many more people could see a net tax hike, including those in the middle class. A preliminary analysis from the Tax Policy Center found that nearly 30 percent of people earning between $50,000 and $150,000 a year would see their tax go up in the next decade. And in an interview Thursday morning on ABC News, Trump economic adviser Gary Cohn pointedly could not guarantee that no middle-class families would see a tax increase. “There’s an exception to every rule,” he said.
King pointed out that in addition to scrapping the state and local tax deduction, GOP leaders were also going to eliminate the personal exemption, which would be an added hit to his constituents. Brady hinted to reporters that the party was working with lawmakers from New York, California, New Jersey, and Illinois on a compromise to ensure everyone gets a tax cut “regardless of where they live.”
But King, for one, was skeptical. “Honestly, I don’t see what they could come up with that would compensate for that,” he told me. While the majority of GOP leaders represent lower-tax states, the Long Islander hopes to find more sympathetic ears in the White House, where not only the president but also his top economic advisers, Cohn and Mnuchin, hail from New York. King grinned. “We might have to divide and conquer,” he said.


Updated 11:45 a.m. ET
At least 58 people have died and hundreds have been injured Sunday night at a country-music concert in Las Vegas, the worst mass shooting in U.S. history, the Las Vegas police department said. Clark County Sheriff Joseph Lombardo said during a press conference that two police officers are in the hospital, one in critical condition and one with minor injuries. At least one other off-duty officer has died. As for those injured, “we are using the number of 515,” Lombardo said on Monday morning. “As you can tell, as the hours go by, that number continues to increase.”
The Las Vegas Police Department confirmed early Monday the suspected shooter is Stephen Paddock, age 64, who is dead. A police statement said Paddock was found dead when a SWAT team breached the hotel room on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Hotel from where Paddock had opened fire on the crowd of more than 22,000 who were attending the Route 91 Harvest Festival concert across the street. Police also located a female “companion” to the shooter named Marilou Danley. They later said Danley was located out of the country and was “no longer being sought out as a person of interest.” During an earlier press conference, Lombardo described the suspected shooter as “a lone-wolf-type actor.”
The confirmed death toll in the Las Vegas shooting surpassed the number in Orlando, Florida, where Omar Mateen, a gunman who had pledged allegiance to ISIS, killed 49 people at the Pulse nightclub in June 2016. Other recent gun rampages in the U.S. include the Sandy Hook school shooting in 2012 that killed 27 people and the Virginia Tech massacre in 2007 in which 32 people were killed.
Multiple videos posted on social media after the Las Vegas shooting show rounds of gunfire ringing out during a musical performance at the Route 91 Harvest festival a little after 10 p.m. Sunday. Photos show concertgoers dropping to the ground for cover and fleeing the scene amid panic. Lombardo noted that incorrect reports on social media suggested there were shootings at other resorts. “That has been proven to be false,” he said. Reports of explosives going off were also false, he added.
The country-music singer Jason Aldean was performing when the gunfire began, according to the Associated Press; the music stopped once the shots became audible. Witnesses reported first hearing gunfire coming from the upper floors of the nearby Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino, according to the Los Angeles Times, and heard multiple rounds of shooting. Police later confirmed that the shooting came from the 32nd floor of the hotel.
Flights were diverted from McCarran Airport in Las Vegas following the incident, and all activity at the airport was temporarily halted. MGM Resorts, which owns the Mandalay Bay hotel, stated on social media that law enforcement asked hotels in the vicinity to go on lockdown to ensure the safety of their guests.
Several hours after the shooting, Aldean posted on Instagram that he is “heartbroken,” calling the shooting “beyond horrific.”
Tonight has been beyond horrific. I still dont know what to say but wanted to let everyone know that Me and my Crew are safe. My Thoughts and prayers go out to everyone involved tonight. It hurts my heart that this would happen to anyone who was just coming out to enjoy what should have been a fun night. #heartbroken #stopthehate
A post shared by Jason Aldean (@jasonaldean) on Oct 2, 2017 at 1:17am PDT
Several other country-music performers at the concert tweeted that they were safe:
Active shooter at @Route91Harvest in Vegas. We're safe. Love you guys.
Praying for everyone here in Vegas. I witnessed the most unimaginable event tonight. We are okay. Others arent. Please pray.
President Donald Trump also tweeted his condolences.
My warmest condolences and sympathies to the victims and families of the terrible Las Vegas shooting. God bless you!
“The President has been briefed on the horrific tragedy in Las Vegas. We are monitoring the situation closely and offer our full support to state and local officials.” White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement. “All of those affected are in our thoughts and prayers.”
On social media and television-news reports, the Las Vegas police department warned people to stay away from the Strip. Officials also provided a phone number that people can call to locate missing friends and members of their family.
For families looking to locate missing loved ones, please call 1-866-535-5654.
During a press conference, officers also encouraged anyone with cellphone footage of the shooting to turn it in to the authorities.
This post will be updated.


Grant the president this: Whatever shortcomings he might have as a national uniter, or soother of emotions, or chooser of Cabinet secretaries, he possesses a practically unerring ability to make anything about himself.
As the humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico continues, Donald Trump has spent the weekend using his favorite medium, his Twitter account, not to soothe emotions or offer succor to the people of the island but to pick an increasingly acrimonious fight with the mayor of San Juan, its largest city, and to tell Puerto Ricans that the lack of water, food, and electricity they are experiencing is not reality but a fabrication by the news media. Saturday morning, my colleague James Fallows called Trump’s attacks on Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz “a new low,” but Trump has managed to dig deeper since.
It started here:
The Mayor of San Juan, who was very complimentary only a few days ago, has now been told by the Democrats that you must be nasty to Trump.
...Such poor leadership ability by the Mayor of San Juan, and others in Puerto Rico, who are not able to get their workers to help. They....
...want everything to be done for them when it should be a community effort. 10,000 Federal workers now on Island doing a fantastic job.
Over an unusually prolific series of tweets (some of which are not duplicated here, but can be seen on his feed), he went on to attack the press:
Fake News CNN and NBC are going out of their way to disparage our great First Responders as a way to "get Trump." Not fair to FR or effort!
In what has become distressingly commonplace, he accused the press of sedition and undermining the military:
The Fake News Networks are working overtime in Puerto Rico doing their best to take the spirit away from our soldiers and first R's. Shame!
Later in the day he was at it again:
Results of recovery efforts will speak much louder than complaints by San Juan Mayor. Doing everything we can to help great people of PR!
By Saturday morning, he was calling any critic an "ingrate":
We have done a great job with the almost impossible situation in Puerto Rico. Outside of the Fake News or politically motivated ingrates,...
(In the midst of this, he again found time to scold NFL players who protest during the National Anthem and to demand credit for raising the numbers of his chosen candidate in the Alabama GOP Senate primary, even though the candidate lost. A participation trophy for the president, please!)
Any ordinary leader, faced with a crisis of this magnitude, seeks to project sympathy for victims, promising to get aid to them as fast as possible. Trump is no normal leader. For days after the crisis, as I wrote on Friday, the president loudly proclaimed (against the evidence) that the response is going swimmingly. But as the remaining unmet needs in Puerto Rico become clearer, and after Cruz criticized Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Elaine Duke for calling Puerto Rico “a good news story,” Trump has taken any complaints about the federal response as personal attacks. He also referred to those executing the federal response as “my people.” Like Louis XIV, the president adores ostentation and proclaims, “L’etat, c’est moi.”
Within Trump’s worldview, this makes sense: If the alleged success of the relief effort a few days ago reflected Trump’s personal brilliance, then any criticism of the effort must represent a personal attack on the president. Outside of Trump’s worldview, however, this is not only illogical but inhumane: As American citizens in an American territory remain without basic necessities, the president of the United States seems primarily concerned about settling political scores and making it about him.
Why Does Trump Keep Praising the Emergency Response in Puerto Rico?
Retired Lieutenant General Russel Honoré, who won applause for turning around the chaotic Katrina relief effort 12 years ago, put Trump’s attacks on the San Juan mayor in clear contrast during a CNN interview Saturday.
“The mayor's living on a cot, and I hope the president has a good day at golf,” Honoré said, alluding to Trump’s weekend at his luxurious Bedminster Club in New Jersey.
Trump’s response this weekend is shocking (not to say surprising, as Fallows noted last weekend during a prior chapter in this crisis) not just because he is attacking public officials desperate to get aid for their people, but because his denunciation of press coverage verges on fantasy. Not for the first time, Trump seeks to deny the plain truth of news reports, but in this case there is no shortage of visual evidence to confirm the destruction. Even if he thinks he can fool mainlanders, Trump is also demanding that Puerto Ricans believe him, rather than their lying eyes:
To the people of Puerto Rico:
Do not believe the #FakeNews!#PRStrong🇵🇷
It’s hard to imagine this would convince a Puerto Rican whose house was destroyed, was going without medicine, or had no reliable drinking water. But since the country’s electrical grid is down and cellphone towers are destroyed, relatively few of them are likely to see the tweet anyway.
Anyone who does see his tweets, though, should treat them dubiously. Trump claimed Sunday morning that “all buildings [are] now inspected,” but Governor Ricardo Rosselló said he was unaware of any such inspections. Last week, as Trump said Puerto Ricans had plenty of water, Rosselló said only 40 percent of the population had reliable drinking water.
Trump’s attacks on Cruz are a turn in their relationship. On Tuesday, Trump tweeted to thank her for praising him. (His focus on who is praising him, as much or more than what is being done, underscores his unusual priorities.) But on Friday, after Duke called the relief effort “a good news story,” Cruz lost her patience during a live CNN interview.
“Dammit, this is not a good news story!” she said. “This is a people-are-dying story. This is a life-or-death story. This is a there’s-a-truckload-of-stuff-that-cannot-be-taken-to-people story. This a story of a devastation that continues to worsen because people are not getting food and water.”
Even though the mayor had not mentioned Trump’s name, he took her remarks as a personal attack, and has spent much of the last 48 hours strafing her on Twitter. I wrote on Friday that Trump’s repeated mentions that Rosselló had thanked him constituted a form of blackmail—a reminder that should Rosselló’s praise cool, Trump could always turn the power of the state from aid into enemy. The president’s turn on Cruz proves that.
The weekend fusillade recenters two tendencies about Trump’s handling of crises. One is that he personalizes everything and makes it about himself, whether that’s a manmade crisis like the white-supremacist march in Charlottesville or an environmental one like Hurricane Maria. Another is his haste to assign blame elsewhere. North Korea? Previous administrations failed to deal with it. (True, though Trump has escalated tensions.) Gas attacks in Syria? Obama’s fault. Iraq and Afghanistan? Impossible problems. (Never mind that Trump had promised, “I alone can fix it.”) And now Puerto Rico? An “almost impossible situation.”
Trump is not wrong that there are immense challenges posed by the Puerto Rican response: Maria was the third major hurricane to strike the U.S. in a month, and the second to hit Puerto Rico. Getting aid to an island so far off the mainland, and repairing the damage, is difficult. But one can make the worst of a bad situation or the best, and the government is leaning toward the latter. He made the situation worse by saying everything was fine when it clearly wasn’t, thus inviting more scrutiny; another part is inexplicably attacking the victims of the crisis as they try to bounce back.
Trump is not the only federal official to bridle at Cruz’s remarks. On Fox News Sunday, FEMA Administrator Brock Long did not personally attack the mayor, but he did suggest she was not playing well with federal workers.
“If mayors decide not to be a part of that, then the response is fragmented. And the bottom line is, is that we’re pushing everybody, we’re trying to push her, in there,” Long said. “You know, we can choose to look at what the mayor spouts off or what other people spout off, but we can also choose to see what’s actually being done, and that’s what I would ask.”
There are growing questions, however, about the president’s material handling of the effort, too. One reason the president is so furious at the press is surely a damning Washington Post story published Friday night that depicted Trump as disengaged and unaware. Though he spoke with Duke briefly about his travel ban the previous Friday, he was not in touch with her again until Tuesday. Instead, Trump spent the weekend playing golf and jousting with professional athletes via social media. Only later did he come to understand the scale of the disaster, when he saw it on TV. As usual, it was personal criticism that really pricked Trump’s attention:
The sense of urgency didn’t begin to penetrate the White House until Monday, when images of the utter destruction and desperation—and criticism of the administration’s response—began to appear on television, one senior administration official said.
A common refrain through the serial crises first eight months of the presidency has been to wonder what would happen when Trump encountered a genuine crisis that was neither political nor of his own making. His first tests, with Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, went relatively smoothly. Maria does not look so promising. Trump’s impulse to personalize every incident and make it about him is jarring, but in one way, he is right: If the public deems the response to Maria a failure, no number of combative or self-exculpatory tweets will prevent him personally from receiving the blame.


The U.S. Supreme Court is back in more ways than one. Monday marks the first time in two years that nine justices have started a new term, and the Court has a full slate of high-profile cases to resolve. In addition to hearing arguments on LGBT rights and organized labor, the Court will weigh in on several major criminal-justice issues, from digital privacy and vehicle searches to qualified immunity and plea bargains. And like a fresh instrument joining a familiar orchestra, the newest justice could change the tune of those around him on these subjects.
“I’ve been kind of bored the last couple terms because there really hasn’t been that much unpredictably new and exciting,” Douglas Berman, an Ohio State University law professor who studies criminal sentencing, told me. “The patterns were fairly well-established; we know where people are voting.”
This term will be different. It’s the first full one to include Justice Neil Gorsuch, who took his seat in April, midway through the 2016-2017 term and far too late to have any significant sway in its direction. The justices saw fewer marquee cases than in years past, largely because the eight-member Court had avoided major legal issues where it might reach a 4-4 deadlock.
On most issues, Gorsuch is expected to be a reliable conservative vote like the man he replaced, Antonin Scalia, who died in February 2016. But Scalia brought a sometimes unpredictable approach to criminal-justice cases, making it hard to forecast how Gorsuch could change the Court’s dynamic there. In more than a few Fourth Amendment cases, for example, the firebrand Scalia sided with the Court’s liberal wing in favor of stronger restrictions on searches and seizures. It’s unclear whether his successor will follow suit.
Here, a breakdown of the five criminal-justice cases that are already on the docket—and a couple more that could be added in the months ahead.
None of the cases loom larger than Carpenter v. United States, a long-awaited showdown on digital privacy and the Fourth Amendment. Police arrested the titular defendant, Timothy Carpenter, and his associates for allegedly robbing electronics stores in Michigan and Ohio in 2011. To build the case against them, federal prosecutors obtained historical cellphone location records from telecommunications companies. These records, compiled from the phones’ interactions with cell towers, allowed investigators to recreate the digital footprints of Carpenter’s device, and presumably his real-life footprints with it.
The catch: Officers didn’t get a warrant first, relying instead on a provision in the federal Stored Communications Act that only requires them to have a reasonable suspicion that a crime has taken place—a lower threshold than is usually needed for searches. The records they obtained placed Carpenter near the scene of some of the robberies when they occurred. At trial, he sought to exclude that evidence because it had been obtained without a warrant.
Lower courts disagreed, citing what’s known as the third-party doctrine to uphold the records search. The doctrine states that Americans have no expectation of privacy when they share data with a third party, and therefore the Fourth Amendment’s typical restrictions on searches and seizures don’t apply. Its origins date back to Smith v. Maryland, a 1976 case in which the Court upheld the use of a pen register—an old surveillance device that tracked a phone’s outgoing numbers—because the suspect freely volunteered those numbers to phone companies to make calls.
But technology has slightly changed since then. Elizabeth Joh, a University of California, Davis, law professor who studies policing and surveillance, told me most people don’t realize the data they create when using everyday devices could someday be used against them by law enforcement. In fact, they probably don’t know much about their data at all. “Number one, we’re not really aware most of the time how much information we’re providing to these third parties,” Joh said. “And number two, it’s really hard to think of that as a voluntary act, because frankly it’s impossible to live a normal life without providing this kind of locational information.”
Nevertheless, the doctrine is still a core part of Fourth Amendment case law, even as phones became mobile supercomputers over the past 15 years. This incongruity hasn’t gone unnoticed by scholars and judges. In United States v. Jones, a 2012 case in which the Court ruled that warrantless GPS tracking violates the Fourth Amendment, Justice Sonia Sotomayor wrote in a concurrence that the doctrine was “ill-suited” for modern life.
Whatever ruling the Court hands down in the case will shape the legal implications of new technologies for years to come. Carpenter revolves around cellphones, but in a digital age where even coffeemakers and alarm clocks can swap data with their manufacturers, its implications will be vast. Joh pointed to the autonomous car, which is under development in Silicon Valley and could be in mass production in the next decade.
“When you think about it, that’s just another giant, quasi-voluntary transmission of information you’re going to be providing to Tesla or whatever company,” she said. “Is that going to be a case where the police will say, ‘Well, we don’t need a warrant because the driver decided to give all that information to Tesla or another carmaker?’” The Court’s ruling in Carpenter, she added, “will provide an answer, one way or another, to what I think is going to be a very important question.”
The Court added two more Fourth Amendment cases in its first orders of the new term on Thursday, both of which involve automobile searches. Generally speaking, courts have long ruled that drivers have a reduced expectation of privacy when they’re traveling by car. As a result, officers typically don’t need a warrant to execute a search of a car so long as they have probable cause to believe it contains evidence of a crime. The Supreme Court traditionally interprets “automobile” to broadly include vehicles like trucks, motor homes, motorcycles, and so forth.
In Collins v. Virginia, the Court will ponder whether the automobile exception applies to an unoccupied vehicle parked in a person’s driveway. An officer in Virginia approached the house of petitioner Ryan Collins’s girlfriend in 2013 while investigating a motorcyclist who’d eluded him and his partner in two high-speed chases. They believed Collins to be responsible. Sitting in the driveway behind a car they saw a motorcycle covered by a tarp. The officer walked onto the property, lifted the tarp, and ran the vehicle identification number, which matched that of a stolen bike from New York.
Officers then arrested Collins for possessing stolen goods. At trial, he asked the court to suppress evidence taken during the officer’s trespass onto the property, arguing it went beyond the automobile exception’s limits. The trial court, the Virginia Court of Appeals, and the Virginia Supreme Court all disagreed with the request and ruled that the exception applies on private property. If the U.S. Supreme Court follows that pattern, it would give police officers broader leeway to search cars, trucks, and other vehicles on private property for evidence of a crime.
The other automobile-related case, Byrd v. United States, explores whether a driver has a reasonable expectation of privacy in a rental car when they’re not the one who rented it. After Terrence Byrd’s girlfriend rented a car for him in 2014, he was pulled over in Pennsylvania for driving suspiciously. State troopers searched his car without a warrant and found heroin and body armor in the trunk. The Third Circuit, which covers Pennsylvania, rejected the argument and ruled he had no expectation of privacy because he wasn’t a listed driver. Other federal courts have reached the opposite conclusion in similar cases, creating an incongruity that the Supreme Court will have to resolve.
The Court will also tackle when police officers can lawfully make arrests in District of Columbia v. Welby. The city government is appealing lower-court rulings against its police officers for a series of arrests they made at a house party in 2008. Neighbors had alerted police to a vacant house where they found more than two dozen people loudly partying. The house itself lacked furnishings or any other signs of habitation, but partygoers told them they had been invited by a new resident known only to them as “Peaches,” who wasn’t there. The officers were skeptical and investigated further.
When they contacted the property’s owner, he told them nobody had permission to be inside. Those present insisted they thought “Peaches” rightfully lived there. Twenty-one were arrested, and after prosecutors declined to bring charges, 16 of them sued the police department. Both the district court and the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals sided with the partygoers, who argued the police didn’t have probable cause to detain them. The courts ruled that the officers were liable for the unlawful arrest because D.C. law had long required proof that trespassers knew they were doing so against an owner’s will.
At first glance, it might seem strange for the Court to involve itself in the minutiae of a local trespassing case. But the justices will have to delve into an increasingly controversial legal issue along the way in Welby: qualified immunity. Government officials—including police officers—are generally immune from personal lawsuits for acts they commit while on the job, but there’s an exception if they violate a person’s civil rights in the course of their official duties.
Qualified immunity is an exception to that exception: If the official’s actions didn’t violate “clearly established” law or policy at the time, they are still immune from being sued in a personal capacity. More often than not, that threshold favors the officials instead of those whose rights may have been violated. Years of Supreme Court precedents have bolstered the doctrine to the point where some legal experts now believe it’s far too difficult for Americans to seek redress for official wrongdoing.
But a glimmer of light emerged last term for qualified-immunity critics. In Ziglar v. Abbasi, a labyrinthine case on post-9/11 detention of non-citizens, Justice Clarence Thomas wrote a concurring opinion wondering aloud whether the Court’s qualified-immunity jurisprudence should be revisited. Among the articles he cited was an influential analysis by University of Chicago law professor William Baude, who argued the doctrine lacked historical or statutory foundations and that the Court “ought to be beating a retreat” away from it. The ACLU filed an amicus brief in Welby raising similar concerns, making it the first case to test whether Thomas and his colleagues will heed Baude’s advice.
Finally, in Class v. United States, the justices will ponder an unusual legal question: If a defendant pleads guilty to a crime, does he or she lose the right to challenge that crime’s constitutionality? Bringing the case before the Court is Rodney Class, a retired veteran who parked his Jeep within the outer limits of the U.S. Capitol grounds without realizing it in 2013.
When Class returned to his parking spot after visiting House and Senate buildings, he discovered a group of Capitol Police officers scrutinizing his vehicle because it lacked the proper parking permit. Officers said he told them he was a “constitutional bounty hunter” and a “private attorney general” who hoped to enforce federal law against federal judges he believed violated the Constitution. During the encounter, he informed the officers that he had three lawfully owned firearms securely stored in the Jeep out of sight. Capitol Police then arrested him for bringing weapons onto the grounds, which is a federal offense.
Class, who mostly represented himself, initially argued in court that his arrest violated the Second Amendment and that he hadn’t been properly notified that guns were forbidden in the parking lot. The court rejected both arguments. After the judge issued a bench warrant against Class for failing to appear at a hearing, he made a deal with prosecutors to plead guilty to the original charges in exchange for them dropping the failure-to-appear charge. He then asked the D.C. Circuit to overturn the sentence on the same grounds as before. The appellate court rejected his claims by ruling that Class had waived his right to challenge his arrest when he accepted a plea agreement.
What makes Class’s case significant is the central role of the plea bargain in the modern American criminal-justice system. The courtroom trials of film and television are largely vanished, with deals between prosecutors and those they prosecute replacing them. At least 95 percent of federal criminal cases are resolved through plea agreements; experts believe the rate is similar in the 50 states as well. How the Supreme Court resolves this case could potentially impact how plea bargains are crafted throughout the country.
In addition to the criminal-justice cases the Court has already agreed to hear, there’s always the chance that it could add more to its docket as the term progresses. Berman, the Ohio State University law professor, said one area he expects the justices to revisit soon is post-conviction restrictions on sex offenders, which can affect their housing, employment, and travel. Courts typically give such constraints broad latitude. But in Packingham v. North Carolina earlier this year, the Court overturned a state law that forbid people convicted of sex-related crimes from using social-media websites on First Amendment grounds.
“Especially in wake of Packingham seemingly getting the entire Court comfortable saying, ‘This is the state just going too far to restrict the lives of sex offenders after their convictions,’ there’s a perhaps justifiable hope [among advocates] that the Court might want to follow up on that and take a hard look at some of these other kinds of restrictions,” he said.
He pointed to two cases currently pending before the Court. In Snyder v. Doe, the Sixth Circuit struck down a series of new limits for some people on Michigan’s sex-offender registry. Applying those changes retroactively, the court reasoned, violated the Constitution’s ban on ex post facto punishments. Michigan asked the Supreme Court to intervene last December, although it hasn’t yet said whether it will. The justices took the rare step of asking the U.S. solicitor general to weigh in on the matter while they mull whether to take it up.
The other case worth watching for, Berman said, is Karsjens v. Piper. The lawsuit challenges Minnesota’s civil-commitment scheme for sex offenders, which it enacted in 1994. Since then, the law has indefinitely confined more than 700 people in psychiatric facilities, allowing Minnesota to keep them in custody long after their prison sentences have ended. A federal district-court judge declared the law unconstitutional in 2015 because it didn’t offer the inmates a reasonable chance of release, but the Eighth Circuit reversed the ruling. The inmates asked the Supreme Court to reinstate the original decision over the summer. Agreeing to hear either of those cases would add an emotionally charged subject to an already blockbuster term for criminal-justice cases.


$6.4 billion. That’s how much candidates, political parties, and interest groups spent on federal elections in 2016, according to the Open Secrets project at the Center for Responsive Politics. Especially in competitive races, huge amounts of money are invested in reaching voters through ads, phone banks, direct mail, and canvassing. Ostensibly, the goal is to persuade people to vote for a particular candidate.
A new paper by two California political scientists finds that the total effect of these efforts is zero, meaning that they have no impact on how voters vote. David Broockman, a Stanford University assistant professor, and Joshua Kalla, a doctoral student at the University of California, Berkeley, analyzed data from 49 field experiments—state, local, and federal campaigns that let political scientists access their data to evaluate their methods. For every flyer stuck in a mailbox, every door knocked by an earnest volunteer, and every candidate message left on an answering machine, there was no measurable change in voting outcomes. Even early outreach efforts, which are somewhat more successful at persuading voters, tend to fade from memory by Election Day. Broockman and Kalla also estimated that the effect of television and online ads is zero, although only a small portion of their data speaks directly to that point.
‘There’s Nothing Better Than a Scared, Rich Candidate’
For obvious reasons, this kind of data is relatively rare, according to Broockman and Kalla: Few campaigns want to give outsiders carte blanche access to their operations, particularly when those outsiders might find their methods totally ineffective. But in many ways, it’s the most important kind of data available. It shows how actual voters and campaigns behave, rather than relying on theoretical surveys. The findings suggest that a lot of the time, energy, and money poured into traditional campaigning methods is wasted, and that the campaign operatives hawking tried-and-true tactics don’t have the evidence to back up their claims. It also casts doubt on the theory of the swing voter who can be persuaded with enough flyers, ad exposure, and conversations with earnest volunteers. In reality, Broockman and Kalla find, direct outreach is most effective at improving voter turnout, suggesting that campaigns should focus on getting their core supporters to the polls than reaching out to a mythical middle.
Before they published this paper, Broockman and Kalla ran into minor social-science fame when they debunked a major study showing that voters can be persuaded to change their views on same-sex marriage if they meet a gay or lesbian person. A short while later, the pair published their own paper on a campaign to change minds about transgender people, finding that persuasion is, in fact, possible. This new study suggests that intentionally curated, issue-specific persuasion campaigns may shift people’s views more easily than partisan political campaigns.
I spoke with Broockman and Kalla about their findings and the abject failures of most political campaigns. Our conversation has been edited for length and clarity. For more on this topic, read Molly Ball’s 2016 piece about the impotence of political consulting.
Emma Green: So, is political campaigning useless?
Joshua Kalla: The short answer is ‘no.’ There are lots of things that campaigning can accomplish. Two decades of research on voter registration and hundreds of field experiments show really cost-effective ways to increase turnout in the base.
But on persuasion, yes, we find that on average, there are very small effects.
David Broockman: Certainly, for those who hope to win elections or change each others’ minds, the conclusion should prompt a rethinking of the way to change minds.
Green: As you point out, a ton of money is spent every election cycle on television ads, directing-mail campaigns, canvassing operations, etc., which are all designed to persuade voters. How should we grapple with the fact that all this spending is largely ineffective?
Kalla: A lot of campaign operatives think there’s this big pool of moderate, undecided voters that we can spend money on to persuade them to our side. That strategy is probably not the right strategy. And we should be skeptical of big claims of persuasion.
“In God we trust, and everyone else bring data.”
Green: Is all that money that goes into campaigns wasted?
Kalla: All the money is being poured into the same time and the same place. It’s hard to imagine that the hundredth TV ad that a person views is really worth it from a monetary perspective, versus that same money spent in a different race or a lower race. There’s a case to be made that too much money is being spent in the same ways and on the same people.
But the takeaway from this paper should not be that campaigns should stop. Campaigns do a lot of work that is measurable in return on getting voters to vote, and persuading voters. It’s just a question of how the money is spent.
Green: I’m curious what your findings say about the “horserace” politics television and print media love to hype. If early persuasion techniques don’t work, and on-the-ground canvassing and campaigning doesn’t work, how meaningful are the “horserace” speculations?
Kalla: The first order of understanding an election and how people vote is partisan identity. Most people vote based on whether there’s a D or an R next to their name. Unpacking that should be more the focus than the horserace.
Green: Your last major study showed the potential for success in personal, transgender-related persuasion campaigns. How do your new findings fit with that study?
Kalla: Ballot-measure campaigns—which are similar to that issue-persuasion work—are very persuasive. One commonality in the ballot measures and the transgender work is the lack of partisanship. We don’t see persuasive effects in general elections where a Democrat is talking to a Republican. But in ballot-measure campaigns and primaries and the transgender work, it seems that persuasion is possible.
Green: Is it just a category difference—that people can connect on issues, but not about some guy who’s running for office?
Kalla: My best guess on the difference is partisanship, where there’s a clear party cue as to how you’re supposed to vote. Most Americans view themselves in a partisan lens. When it comes time to vote, it’s less a function of a person running for office than a person with a party label beside his or her name.
Green: But what about the roughly 39 percent of Americans who identify as independents?
Kalla: A lot of independents tend to be what political scientists term as “closeted partisans.” They might not explicitly identify with a party, but if you ask them which party they lean toward, they’ll often give you an answer. Their behavior tends to look a lot like the behavior of people who explicitly identify as partisans. And explicitly within our experiments, we look to see whether people who identify as independents end up being more persuasive than partisans. And we find there is no difference.
“Humans are very good at fooling themselves, especially when there are consulting fees involved.”
Green: Our democracy is based on this romantic idea that encounters in the public square—conversations, essays, speeches, etc.— have the power to change how people view the world. If you’re saying that’s basically not true, where does that leave us? Are we all just destined to remain isolated in the prisons of our own convictions?
Kalla: I want to draw a distinction with the transgender canvassing work. That was very much focusing on getting people to be introspective and think about times that they or their loved ones have been discriminated against, and how that made them feel, and how that real, lived experience informs their views on non-discrimination laws and views toward LGBT people. That’s close to an ideal of how we want democracy to function.
That’s not the type of discourse you see in campaigns. I don’t think TV ads or every glossy postcard is really going to lead to enlightened discourse among the American public.
Green: Is the other lesson here that all campaign strategists are hacks?
Kalla: There’s a great line: In God we trust, and everyone else bring data. One thing our paper says is, hey, these claims that campaign strategists and polling gurus make are testable. Unless someone is going to actually test their claim and do it in an unbiased way, and share the results whether or not it makes them look good or bad, I think our starting assumption should be that most of the claims that are out there should be treated skeptically.
Broockman: If you think about medicine in the 18th and 19th century, there were a lot of people who weren’t dumber than we are now. They were the same people; the just didn’t have the same data. A lot of honorable people believed certain things about leeches and blood-letting and whatever else. And now we know that’s all garbage.
That’s to say that just because there are certain beliefs that many people hold about what works in campaigns doesn’t mean those things are likely to be true. Humans are very good at fooling themselves, especially when there are consulting fees involved. We need to move to a higher standard of evidence. If I were a campaign candidate or donor—just like if I were a patron in the 19th century—that’s what I would demand.
That revolution that happened in medicine is what we’re starting to see in campaigns. And if medicine is any guide, there’s no reason to think that the anecdotes of highly paid, highly respected people are going to be accurate.


Catalans speak their own language. They are richer than their fellow citizens in the rest of Spain, and thus contribute more to the national budget than they receive back. They carry unhappy memories of domination by centralizing governments in Madrid. The Franco dictatorship of 1939-1975 harshly suppressed their culture, identity, and political and civil liberties. It’s a pure accident of history that Catalonia ended up inside the Kingdom of Spain at all. Portugal successfully broke away in the 1640s. Had the Thirty Years War, the War of Spanish Succession, or the Napoleonic wars taken a slightly different turn, Catalonia might well have followed.
The Next Wave of Questionable Referendums
All this may seem long ago and far away to the American reader. But it’s all suddenly very top of mind for modern Europe. The Catalan regional government has invited its population to vote Sunday in a referendum on independence. The referendum has been declared illegal by the Spanish Constitutional Court, because it violates the terms of the 1978 constitution that proclaimed Spanish unity “indissoluble.” The central government has reacted roughly to the referendum project, raiding local government offices, impounding ballots, and arresting local officials. “Stop this escalation of radicalism and disobedience,” the Spanish prime minister commanded in a televised statement on September 17th.  Unsurprisingly, those words failed to calm the situation. The streets of Barcelona have filled with protesters. Only about 40 percent of Catalans favored independence as of midsummer, but feelings are running hotter now.
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy visited Washington, D.C. on September 26th. At a joint press conference, President Trump deplored the secession vote.
I think the people of Catalonia have been talking about this for a long time.  But I bet you if you had accurate numbers and accurate polling, you'd find that they love their country, they love Spain, and they wouldn't leave.  So I'm just for united Spain.  
I speak as the President of the United States, as somebody that has great respect for your President, and also has really great respect for your country.  I really think the people of Catalonia would stay with Spain.  I think it would be foolish not to.  Because you're talking about staying with a truly great, beautiful, and very historic country.
(The formal title of the prime minister of Spain is “president of the government,” hence Trump’s reference to him as “your president.”)
Trump’s words are unlikely to cut into separatist sympathy in Catalonia. A Pew survey found that 92 percent of Spaniards have no confidence in him, his worst rating in any European country surveyed. Yet Trump was—for once—speaking on behalf of the United States in a way that America’s friends in Spain need to hear.
Perhaps a better way to understand the issues at stake is to take note of which international actors support the independence referendum: Julian Assange and Russian propaganda outfits, to the extent that those are different things. The main effort of Sputnik’s Spanish-language Russian propaganda has been to shade its reporting to suggest easy entry into the European Union for an independent Catalonia.
Catalan nationalism has historically had a left-of-center flavor, unlike other Russian-favored secessionist movements in Europe. But the Russian interest seems, as usual, less about ideology and more about creating chaos, not only for Spain, but within the European Union. Carving up an economy of more than a trillion euros (and apportioning a public debt very nearly equally as large) will generate endless problems for Catalans and whatever remains of Spain.
The American interest has historically been just the opposite: continuity, stability, and the preservation of established institutions. Pre-presidential Trump departed from this norm, with his sympathy for British exit from the European Union. Presidential Trump has at least been furnished with better talking points.
But not for the first time, Americans and the world face the cost of a president who commands so little respect on the world stage, atop an administration already nearly as dysfunctional as Putin could wish. There is no U.S. ambassador to Spain, among other indicators of the breakdown of foreign policy function.
Very possibly, America and the West will get lucky. The Madrid authorities will behave less provocatively; the Catalans will vote “no”—or better yet, not show up to vote at all. (Only 40 percent of Catalans showed up for the last independence vote, in 2014, making irrelevant the 80 percent “yes” outcome.) But how long can luck hold? The harms from a U.S. presidency concerned only for the president’s own personal interests are accumulating and accelerating, month by month, week by week.


Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price resigned, after it was reported that he spent more than $1 million in taxpayer money on private and military flights; President Trump plans to designate Don J. Wright, a deputy assistant secretary, to serve as acting secretary. During an address to the National Association of Manufacturers, Trump praised the GOP’s new tax plan as “a giant, beautiful, massive” tax cut. He also defended his administration against criticism that officials didn’t act quickly enough to send aid to hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico, and pledged that “we will not rest … until the people of Puerto Rico are safe.” The State Department ordered over half of its embassy personnel in Havana to leave the island, citing “specific attacks” that sickened at least 21 U.S. diplomats. The White House announced that Trump will make his first official trip to Asia during the first two weeks of November.
‘Great Job!’: Lacking electricity, potable water, and access to banks, Puerto Ricans are still suffering more than a week after Hurricane Maria struck the island. So why does President Trump keep insisting that his administration’s response was a success? (David A. Graham)  
Permanently Linked: The controversy over NFL players kneeling during the national anthem has some fans lamenting the introduction of politics into sports. But football has always been a battleground in America’s culture wars. (Vann R. Newkirk II)
Roy Moore? Really?: The Alabama Senate candidate is a “bit of a loon,” writes Michelle Cottle. And the former judge has made it clear that he won’t let facts—or the law—stand in his way.
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

What’s Next for Steve Bannon?: The former White House strategist now hangs out at his townhouse on Capitol Hill, “swearing like a sailor, chugging sodas … and getting ready to shape 2018.” (Josh Dawsey, Politico)
Removed: The Treasury Department has reportedly taken down a 2012 economic analysis that contradicts Secretary Steve Mnuchin’s argument that a corporate tax cut would be beneficial for workers. (Richard Rubin, The Wall Street Journal)
Gerrymandering Shmerrymandering: To take some of the politics out of redistricting, the Supreme Court can simply reaffirm the equal-population requirement. (Michael Barone, National Review)
You Say You Want a Revolution: Roy Moore’s GOP primary win in Alabama has inspired an activist-led rebellion within the party: According to one former party leader, “Every Republican senator had better get prepared for a challenge from the far right.” (Alexander Burns and Jonathan Martin, The New York Times)
‘America Never Deserved Puerto Rico’: President Trump’s response to the devastation underscores what most Puerto Ricans already know: For most Americans, the territory will always be an afterthought. (Joshua Rivera, GQ)
‘I Don’t Benefit’: A New York Times analysis found that President Trump could cut his tax bills by over $1 billion under the new GOP proposal. Here’s how. (Jesse Drucker and Nadja Popovich)
During a rally in Alabama last week, President Trump blasted NFL players who’ve knelt during the national anthem in protest of police brutality. His remarks fueled widespread backlash that played out on the sidelines over the weekend. Now, Trump is calling for football fans to boycott the NFL for “disrespecting our Flag & Country.” We asked this week if you agree or disagree with the president’s position.
Almost 400 of you wrote in to share your thoughts, and most of you opposed his handling of the situation. That includes reader Robert Lindsley, who wrote: “Our flag and anthem are symbols representing all of the United States. Not just our military, not just our president or our elected government, but all Americans, including those who protest against discrimination.”
But several of you offered a different perspective on the issue. Here’s what Norman Oro had to say: “I can't believe I'm writing this, but I do agree with President Trump that not standing during the national anthem is disrespectful to our country. Having said that, I think he should use his power as president to try to understand why this is happening. Based on my limited understanding of the situation, many Americans are genuinely fearful that they're being targeted and murdered by our nation's police forces. … There are better, more constructive ways to deal with this..”
Thanks to everyone who submitted responses, and stay tuned for next week’s Question of the Week.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


Updated on September 29 at 6:25 p.m. ET
Tom Price resigned as secretary of Health and Human Services Friday, amid a controversy over spending more than $1 million in taxpayer money on private and military jets.
Price “offered his resignation earlier today and the president accepted,” the White House said in a terse statement sent late Friday afternoon. Don Wright, a deputy assistant secretary, will serve as acting secretary.
Earlier in the day, President Trump had told reporters that Price was a “fine man” but that he’d make a decision by the end of the day on whether to keep Price in place.
The Brazenness of Trump's White House Staff Using Private Email
The resignation is in some ways strikingly typical—it’s the sort of workaday scandal that has felled many a government official—yet it comes from an administration that has redefined the type and scope of controversy, from a White House in unprecedented turmoil to the increasingly baroque and many-headed Russia investigation.
“I have spent 40 years both as a doctor and public servant putting people first,” Price wrote in a resignation letter released by the White House. “I regret that the recent events have created a distraction from these important objectives. Success on these issues is more important than any one person. In order for you to move forward without further disruption, I am officially tendering my resignation.”
Price’s departure caps a stormy and unusually short tenure. A physician from Georgia who previously served in Congress, Price was subject to withering attacks during his confirmation hearings from Democrats, who said that his trading of health-care stocks that were affected by his work in Congress was dubious at best and insider trading at worst. Once confirmed in February, he found himself in the midst of the frantic, shambling effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act. At a Boy Scout rally in West Virginia in July, Trump joked that he’d fire Price if Obamacare repeal failed.
After several attempts, the law remains in place, but it was the taxpayer-funded travel that doomed Price. He said the costly flights he took were made in an official capacity, but various reports suggest that he was at the very least mixing his personal and professional travel—for example by taking a private jet to a Georgia resort where he owns land, and then speaking to a conference the following day.
On Thursday, Price moved to soothe the roiling crisis by saying he would pay for the price of his seat on the planes. At first glance, that seemed like a major move to dampen the furor, but it quickly became clear that there was less to the announcement than it appeared. Price was paying only for his own seat—a not inconsiderable $52,000 or so, but well short of the more than $400,000 the flights had cost. His tab didn’t reckon with the cost of aides’ flights, nor the fact that the planes wouldn’t have taken off without him. Price argued that Trump’s ambitious agenda required the flights—a somewhat ironic claim, given the failure of Obamacare repeal, the administration’s signature health initiative.
Later, Politico, which broke the initial story and has delivered a series of damaging scoops about Price, delivered another big headline: The White House had approved Price’s use of military aircraft for trips to Asia and Europe over the summer. His wife Betty had flown with him, while other staffers flew commercial. That brought the total tab for Price’s travel to more than $1 million, at least of what is publicly known. Former President Barack Obama’s health secretaries both flew commercial while on the job. BuzzFeed also reported that Price had sought to reopen an executive dining room at the department that had been shuttered, which would have cost extra money.
Although the White House had signed off on those trips, Trump was angry. On Wednesday, he declined to express confidence in Price, and The New York Times reported Thursday that Trump had grown even more angry since then, because he views the use of private planes “as undercutting his drain-the-swamp campaign message.”
The president was on to something. For a group of secretaries who espouse conservative principles and complain that government is too large and spends too much, Trump’s Cabinet has proven remarkably effective at spending taxpayer money. The failure of Obamacare repeal may have weakened Price heading into this scandal, but pushing him out may set a dangerous precedent for other members of the Cabinet.
Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has sought steep cuts in its budget even as he racks up large bills. Pruitt spent more than $800,000 for an around-the-clock security detail in his first three months in office alone, nearly double the cost for his predecessor. This week, The Washington Post revealed that the EPA is spending $25,000 to construct a soundproof privacy booth for Pruitt, who has faced a slew of leaks as he battles unhappy employees at the agency. He has also accrued thousands of dollars in costs for private and military jet flights, including travel between Washington and his home state of Oklahoma.
Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke is another frequent private flyer, including chartering a plane from an oil-and-gas company for a flight from Las Vegas to his home state of Montana for $12,000 this summer. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is under investigation for a flight in a government plane that included viewing the solar eclipse from Fort Knox, Kentucky. That flight became public when his wife, Louise Linton, posted an Instagram photo of herself alighting from the plane, and then sniped at a commenter. She later apologized. Mnuchin also requested the use of a government plane for his honeymoon, though Treasury later decided against it.
Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, who is independently wealthy, has also used a private plane, but she has paid for it.
Price is the latest departure from an administration that has seen an unusually high rate of turnover. Barely eight months into this presidency, Trump has already lost or fired a national-security adviser, a chief strategist, a chief of staff, two communications directors, a press secretary, an FBI director, a deputy chief of staff, and several other advisers.
There are few clear dividing lines between Price’s flights and many of those by his colleagues Pruitt, Zinke, and Mnuchin, except that the known tab for his is higher. (New revelations are trickling out daily, so these numbers are in flux.) Yet Trump, who has been slow to staff positions in his administration, can hardly afford to lose Cabinet secretaries, given that there are so few other top jobs in departments filled. Between Obamacare repeal failure and the $1 million tab, it’s just that the timing for Price was wrong.


Amid a roiling humanitarian disaster in a U.S. territory, President Trump has one clear, overriding message for the people of Puerto Rico and the rest of the United States: He, Donald Trump, is doing a phenomenal job.
Here’s Trump Friday morning:
Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello just stated: "The Administration and the President, every time we've spoken, they've delivered......
And Thursday morning:
Puerto Rico is devastated. Phone system, electric grid many roads, gone. FEMA and First Responders are amazing. Governor said "great job!"
And Tuesday morning:
Thank you to Carmen Yulin Cruz, the Mayor of San Juan, for your kind words on FEMA etc.We are working hard. Much food and water there/on way
The president is not the only person to make this claim. On Thursday, acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke called herself “very satisfied” with the response to Maria.
“I know it’s a hard storm to recover from, but the amount of progress that’s been made, and I really would appreciate any support that we get,” she said. “I know it is really a good news story in terms of our ability to reach people and the limited number of deaths that have taken place in such a devastating hurricane.”
On CNN Friday morning, San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz, who Trump had cited earlier in the week, heard that and reacted incredulously.
“She said that?” Cruz said. After hearing the clip, she said:
Well, maybe from where she’s standing it’s a good news story. When you’re drinking from a creek, it’s not a good news story. When you don’t have food for a baby, it’s not a good news story. When you have to pull people down from their buildings—I’m sorry, but that really upsets me and frustrates me. I would ask her to come down here and visit the towns and then make as statement like that, which frankly, it is an irresponsible statement and it contrasts with the statements of support that I have been getting since yesterday when I got that call from the White House. Dammit, this is not a good news story! This is a people-are-dying story. This is a life-or-death story. This is a there’s-a truckload-of-stuff-that-cannot-be-taken-to-people story. This a story of a devastation that continues to worsen because people are not getting food and water.
It’s a reality of disasters that, as former FEMA Director James Lee Witt put it to me earlier this week, “If you’re one of the victims, every hour and every day is too long.” There are real obstacles that make it difficult to distribute aid around Puerto Rico. Roads are destroyed, gas stations are dry, the power grid is down, and telecommunications infrastructure is out of service. Even as the port of San Juan fills up with containers, people outside of the capital city can’t get basic supplies. These are not problems that the federal government, or anyone else, can fix instantaneously.
Yet even granting the difficulty, the Trump administration’s insistence that Maria recovery is a success feels tone-deaf—adding insult to injury for Puerto Ricans who can’t eat or find clean water.
Part of this seems to be Trump’s struggle to project empathy, which he displayed in the early days after Hurricane Harvey, where he excelled at the inspirational, rah-rah, we will rebuild aspects of presidential response, but found it very hard to show he felt the pain of Gulf Coast residents. (By contrast, he has expressed caution about what to do in Puerto Rico, tweeting, “The fact is that Puerto Rico has been destroyed by two hurricanes. Big decisions will have to be made as to the cost of its rebuilding!”) Another part is Trump’s tendency toward puffery: In all situations, for his entire career, his impulse has been to magnify and celebrate his own prowess and success, and so he’s doing that here too. But that fake-it-till-you-make-it approach understandably rankles people like Yulín.
In service of his self-celebratory project, Trump has enlisted Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rosselló, willingly or not. Over and over, Trump has noted Rosselló’s gratitude. But the governor is in a difficult situation. He knows that he is largely dependent on Washington in both the immediate and long-term aftermath of the storm. Even as he has thanked Trump profusely, Rosselló has also repeatedly begged for the federal government to do more.
The federal government has shown a willingness to deal roughly with Puerto Rico in recent years, resisting a bankruptcy that might help it discharge its crippling debts and seizing control of the island’s financial restructuring. The governor must know that Trump has shown a tendency to punish those who criticize him. “A massive effort is underway, and we have been really treated very, very nicely by the governor and by everybody else,” Trump said Tuesday. “They know how hard we’re working and what a good job we’re doing.” Why would Trump focus on how he had been treated by the leaders of Puerto Rico, when they are the ones recovering from a storm? One could imagine Rosselló interpreting that as a veiled threat not to complain about the president. Conveniently, the lack of any criticism from Rosselló allows Trump to claim victory.
Trump’s celebratory comments loom over a tricky situation in Puerto Rico. It’s clear that people need more help, but from the mainland it’s difficult to figure out quite where the breakdowns are. Waiving the Jones Act may be the right thing to do by Puerto Rico in the long run, but it seems unlikely to help in the next few days. Yulín has repeatedly complained that there are personnel on the ground in Puerto Rico but that they’re not being empowered to help.
“Where is there good news here?” the mayor said Friday morning on CNN. “The good news is that we’re getting heard. The good news is that there’s boots on the ground.The good news is that the people from FEMA have their heart in the right place, and the [Health and Human Services] people know what they need to do. For heaven’s sake, somebody let them do their job.”
It’s unlikely that the president or the secretary of homeland security are going to roll up their sleeves and solve these logistical problems, but their insistence that all is going well when it clearly isn’t undermines faith in federal recovery efforts. Politicians know that disasters can be make-or-break events for their careers, and so they all want to convince voters that they have succeeded. Trump’s handling of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma was generally well-rated, especially compared to how most of his actions as president have been received. By insisting that the Maria recovery is a success, Trump may convince some voters that is true, but it is clear that more needs to be done for Puerto Rico, and if relief does not improve soon, Trump’s early boasts may come back to haunt him.


Both sides of my family hail from Alabama: my mother’s people from the coal mining country of Walker County in the north and the tiny burg of Union Springs farther south; my dad’s, from a speck of a cotton-mill town just east of Montgomery.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
It has been ages since I lived in the state, but I still have scads of relatives scattered across it. I harbor tribal loyalty in the Auburn-Alabama football rivalry (War Eagle!), as well as a weakness for green-bean funeral casserole. And I invariably feel a pang when some not-so-great aspect of my ancestral homeland winds up as a cautionary tale on the front pages of the national media. (Case in point: last year’s Washington Post look at how opioids have become the currency of choice in the town where my grandma grew up.)
But then Alabama goes and does something screwy like nominate Roy Moore for Senate, and I find myself banging my forehead on my desk and shrieking at the dog, “What the hell?!”
Yes. I am aware of the populist rage afoot in the land. I did not need Hillbilly Elegy to tell me about the alienation that working-class whites—especially in rural, economically challenged areas—feel toward the sneering, culturally blue swaths of the nation. (That said, the book was a ripping good read.) I am all too familiar with the bubbling stew of racism, sexism, homophobia, Islamophobia, nationalism, antisemitism, anti-intellectualism, anti-establishmentism, anti-governmentism, anti-mediaism, and revanchism that Donald Trump has ushered center stage in American politics.
But seriously, Roy Moore?
Alabama is a deep-red state, and its elected officials should reflect that disposition. But Moore is no garden-variety outsider raring to drain the swamp. Nor is he a traditional conservative committed to keeping America safe for religion, guns, and low marginal-tax rates. Or rather, Moore may very well be both of those things, but he is also—and I want to put this as delicately as possible—a bit of a loon.
Most people, if they’ve heard of Moore at all, remember him vaguely as “the 10-Commandments judge.” This shorthand hardly does justice to the multi-year legal and PR spectacle Moore waged for the right to blend church and state. The flamboyantly pious Moore launched his career-making crusade in 1992, by placing a wooden plaque of the 10 Commandments in his Etowah County courtroom. The ensuing cultural and legal battles raised his profile and helped him get elected chief justice of the state supreme court in 2001. Shortly after being sworn in, he upped the culture-war ante by installing a massive granite monument of the 10 Commandments smack dab in the middle of the court building’s lobby. Lawsuits followed, and a federal judge ordered the monument—affectionately nicknamed The Rock—removed. Moore refused. Two years and multiple court rulings later (none in Moore’s favor), the conservative champion was officially booted from the bench by a judicial ethics panel.
By then, however, Moore was a hero among social conservatives, a fierce Christian warrior who put principles over power. He spent the next few years traveling the country with The Rock, speaking—preaching, really—to fellow warriors about the need to restore this nation to its Christian roots.  
In 2012, Moore returned to the political arena, reclaiming his seat as Alabama’s chief justice. Before long, he was back on the national radar, this time for defying federal law regarding same-sex marriage. Now, Moore has never been a big fan of gay rights. He is on record as believing that “sodomy” should be illegal, drawing parallels between it and bestiality, and decreeing that homosexuality renders a person fundamentally unfit for parenthood. During his first run as chief justice, he used a 2002 custody case as an occasion to pen a fiery screed against “homosexual behavior,” denouncing it as “a crime against nature, an inherent evil, and an act so heinous that it defies one's ability to describe it.”
Small wonder that, in 2016, the chief justice directed Alabama probate judges to ignore the Supreme Court’s recent decision legalizing same-sex marriages and to continue enforcing the state’s ban on such unions by denying marriage licenses to same-sex couples. Once more, he was brought up on judicial-ethics charges and, in September of last year, was suspended from office. He resigned shortly thereafter to run for Senate.
Just to review: Moore had his judicial wings clipped—twice—for refusing to uphold the law of the land.
Even when not on the bench, Moore found ways now and again to grab the spotlight. In 2006, when Keith Ellison became the first Muslim elected to Congress, Moore penned an op-ed for World Net Daily, asserting that Ellison should not be allowed to serve in the House because of his religion. Ellison’s request to be sworn in on the Quran (rather than the Bible) really got Moore’s goat. In addition to arguing that someone who embraces the Quran cannot possibly commit himself to the U.S. Constitution (to be fair, Moore is an expert on the subject of putting one’s religious beliefs ahead of the rule of law), the erstwhile judge argued that “common sense alone dictates that in the midst of a war with Islamic terrorists we should not place someone in a position of great power who shares their doctrine.”
Moore is a zealot in the wild-eyed, Old Testament sense of the word. He is eternally trolling for a fight, and, when it suits him, he is as dishonest as, well, Donald Trump.
Moore, like Trump, shamelessly pedaled the Obama “birther” nuttiness for years (and as recently as December). It most definitely bled into his professional behavior. In 2013, he was one of two dissenting votes in the state supreme court’s dismissal of a case that would have required Alabama’s secretary of state to certify a presidential candidate’s birth certificate before the candidate’s name could appear on the general election ballot.
Almost as shamelessly—and just as baselessly—in an interview with Vox last month, Moore asserted that certain communities in the United States are already operating under Sharia law.   When pressed for details, he flailed around for a second or two (“Well, there’s Sharia law, as I understand it, in Illinois, Indiana—up there. I don't know”) before pooh-poohing the very concept of facts.  “Well, let me just put it this way—if they are, they are; if they’re not, they’re not. That doesn’t matter.”
Indeed, Moore has made painfully clear that facts do not matter to him. Neither does he feel compelled to respect laws with which he disagrees. (He answers to a higher power, you see.) This may appeal to Alabamans sense of independence, feistiness, and moral virtue, but it bodes ill for Moore actually accomplishing anything in the Senate.
A pugilistic, self-aggrandizing grandstander like Moore is exactly what Alabama doesn’t need representing its interests. Doesn’t the state have enough to contend with already?


Let the legend tell it, and America didn’t truly integrate until Bear Bryant told it to. In a dominant career, perhaps Bryant’s most prominent feat as a coach was his endeavor to add black players to the University of Alabama Crimson Tide football team—an endeavor that pitted him squarely against the notorious segregationist, Alabama Governor George Wallace. Bama and the vaunted Southeastern Conference to which it belonged were some of the last refuges of Jim Crow in the country, until Bryant scheduled a 1970 game against the integrated University of Southern California. The humiliation of the subsequent loss, as the story goes, would open one of the last closed doors in the South and in the country.
Of course, that version of the story is heavily fictionalized. The USC game was neither the first game Bryant’s team played against an integrated opponent, nor did the game actually spark integration at Bama or end segregation in the sport as a whole, let alone the country. But the episode has served as a founding myth for the phenomenon of modern football, a game that now extends beyond sports. Ever since, football has grown as a central institution in American life; on its face a truly multi-ethnic undertaking, one where common ground can be found between the lines and politics can be forsaken at least for a few hours. That facade has been revealed as a fiction; both in the protests of Colin Kaepernick and teams around the league, and in the increasingly vehement response from people like President Donald Trump.
Since integration, one hidden rule has bound the sport. Football would become America’s game, but at a price. Anyone would be welcomed onto the playing field—and in short order there would be predominantly black teams—but “politics” would not be allowed. With the ascendancy of the NFL and its move to embrace black players, that bargain became a Sunday truce of its own.
As sports media, anchored and nourished by the mushrooming profit margins of football, itself ballooned into a self-contained ecosystem, the bargain also expanded. Sports became almost an alternate universe where a person could escape the troubling “politics” on display in a changing world. Martin Luther King Jr. once told Meet the Press that “the most segregated hour of Christian America is 11 o’clock on Sunday morning.” But with the advent of professional football, at 1 o’clock, America could pretend it was utopia. That fiction reflected the larger fantasy built and maintained in the post-civil-rights-movement United States that racial strife was a thing of the past, and that continuing to advance the work of those killed in the name of equality risked upsetting a precarious unity.
While football and football media rose in stature as American institutions, other pillars were collapsing. According to Gallup polls, citizens’ faith in Congress, the presidency, and government has eroded to the point where distrust is the default. Nobody trusts schools anymore. American bureaucracy has earned a bad name in every place from New York City to the smallest towns, and the great collective projects that built thousands of miles of highways and moved entire rivers seem somehow less possible. Groups like the Boy Scouts have gone from reverence as great makers of men to curious and quaint pieces of old Americana at best. Attachment to shared institutions and spaces has been severed—curiously, mostly among white people—and in its void, suicides, depression, an opioid crisis, and a powerful rage have taken root. And, perhaps to the highest alarm of those who profess that the country was founded on “Judeo-Christian values,” organized religion has been in retreat.
The fears of those alarmists have always been overblown, and football is part of the reason why. New York Times journalist Roy Reed wrote of a 1969 football Saturday in Birmingham that: “Football has probably replaced church-going as the number one social function in the South. And it’s more than just the favorite sport. It is now a religio-social past-time, a psychic device for the release of tensions and a vehicle for doing business.” Reed’s observation was correct, and football has supplanted religion even well beyond the South now, but the replacement has been seamless because football’s a lot like church. As a civic religion, football has married Max Weber’s protestantische Ethik, American capitalism, the worship of great men, and the individual narratives of sacrifice and superhuman feats. While the stories of Lazarus’s revival or the healing of lepers may be on the outs, there are now Music City Miracles and Lambeau Leaps to compensate.
Football is the way Americanness is performed now. It’s Boy Scouts; it’s Girl Scouts; it’s small talk, radio banter, community, lineage, and family. But the mass performance of football as civic religion has given the lie to the supposed bargain upon which that faith is built. The bargain is predicated on the values of the faith posing as neutral anti-politics, rather than as stances that themselves also divide people. Football—especially the glossy, packaged form of the NFL—is supposed to be apolitical, but the beer ads, fighter jets, giant flag displays, rigid policing of sexuality and gender roles, tolerance of violence off the field, and conspicuous absence of people of color in ownership and executive ranks are echoes of pieces of the status quo being challenged today. They represent the norms of society. But, in the expansive definition of “politics” that encompasses activism and radicalism, norms are the ur-politics, the primary ways in which people are organized and self-governed.
Thus why the protest of former 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick—a small action, all things considered—has had such widespread effects. Last August, when Kaepernick began sitting and then kneeling during the national anthem in protest of police brutality against people of color, he said that “I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color.” Kaepernick was initially shredded for breaking the cardinal rule: He’d brought politics into sport. But his protest was merely a refusal to engage in a ritual. How could the negation be political if the original activity was not?
Kaepernick’s apostasy spread. Like heretics before him, the quarterback faced an informal ban from the sport for his demonstration. If only that were the end of it. President Trump, a man whose success relies on a perhaps preternatural ability to find and inflame the grievances of a certain cohort of white Americans, quickly seized on the opportunity. Last August while on the campaign trail, he told Kaepernick to “find a new country” after his protest went viral. Even after Trump won the presidency, he returned to football often as red meat during rallies, bragging that his disparagement had been the cause of Kaepernick’s joblessness. And in a now-infamous moment, at an Alabama rally last week, Trump alluded to the protests of Kaepernick and his supporters in the league, saying that owners should “get that son of a bitch off the field right now” when players protest during the anthem.
As Trump is wont to do, his treatment of the situation quickly made the subtle unsubtle. The apolitical facade of football was revealed fully as a sham by Trump’s very involvement. And the NFL, as it is wont to do, responded by trying to reinforce its trademarked brand of unity while minimizing politics. In one of the most remarkable and bizarre NFL game days in memory, last Sunday teams across the league chose a patchwork of competing strategies ranging from kneeling en masse or locking arms. The Pittsburgh Steelers mostly chose to remain in the tunnel during the anthem. The Dallas Cowboys kneeled before the anthem, but stood for the song (they were booed anyway). The Carolina Panthers conspicuously did nothing. Teams in both the professional and amateur games have taken to locking arms in solidarity, and look like they will continue to do so for the near future.
But, in solidarity with whom? The net effect of the protests across the league, done in the full embrace of the pageantry that Kaepernick’s protest seems to reject, was to reassure fans that it was both possible to love an unchanged NFL and care about the racial issues Kaepernick brought to the game. Even that rather safe message was blunted by the way that the NFL and its partners contorted themselves to coddle those offended by the protests, including Cowboys owner Jerry Jones’s close consultation with Trump after the fact and DirecTV’s offer of refunds to put-off fans. Trump’s comments this week on Fox and Friends about NFL owners being “afraid of their players” made the racial animus of the debate even clearer, and made certain to drag the controversy into another week. While the NFL will ostensibly continue to defy him, the real message, as always, is that the league is the American institution, and that nothing can divide it.
That messaging window has shifted a few football fields away from the original intent of the protest. A common refrain that has developed within the league in defense of Kaepernick is that his protest was not a rejection of the NFL or the patriotism wrapped up in Sunday pageantry. The argument goes that it is somehow possible to be flag-waving patriot who consumes whole everything the NFL produces and still agree with Kaepernick’s argument. But, while allowing for Kaepernick’s own potential evolution on the subject—it’s certainly possible that he’s softened his initial stance on the flag or patriotism themselves being problems—that argument seems a bit more than specious.
Kaepernick’s initial protest was such a bombshell because it was by nature a critique of how the American civic religion is performed. The anthem in NFL games is less a rendition of a song and more a set of rites that have sprawled into the realm of the absurd. Today, billowing 100-yard-long flags, military color guards, fighter jets, stealth bombers, paratroopers, and police units make up the “America” pregame portion of even the most mundane contests. While many people expressed alarm earlier this year at the brazen militarism of Trump musing out loud about holding military parades on American streets for holidays, few fathomed that weekly football games already emulate the function of military parades, showcasing the kind of firepower that the country’s military uses to vaporize homes and flatten cities. Add to that the fact that many of those exercises are directly subsidized by funds from the Department of Defense, and the deeper layers of Kaepernick’s protest come into view.
If, as King said in his 1967 Riverside speech against the Vietnam War, racism, materialism, and militarism are “giant triplets” that reinforce and rebuild one another, it’s clear that they all play a role in the policy brutality at the core of Kaepernick’s original complaint. Policing has rapidly militarized, and the societal deference shown to the military is mirrored in the deference given to police, where it often manifests as impunity for officers who abuse their authority. Existing racial inequalities and racial biases create the self-perpetuating nature of police brutality, and police have often acted as engines of capital, enforcing local corrupt money machines like those in Ferguson that not only violate the civil rights of people of color, but lend to further poverty and inequality. These all in turn destroy black lives. And those values are all, in turn, peddled with every snap of the NFL.
The original act of a refusal to stand for an anthem was a direct challenge to those values, and also a direct challenge to the very existence of the league and its place in American civics. It and sister protests were about what every protest is about—power—and who gets to wield that power. And, while comparisons of football and war are perhaps over-determined, in responding to that challenge, the NFL revealed itself to be a shade of America’s most enduring war, the one that cleaves brother from brother and threatens the foundations of power.
The NFL’s response will probably win the day. The league is a juggernaut, and it will do everything it can to erase the revelation of its political nature, and get back to the version of reality where, to quote New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft, “there is no greater unifier in this country than sports, and unfortunately, nothing more divisive than sports.” But, just under the surface, the truth is that the gridiron is one of the main arenas where the fight over injustice and American identity is waged, and that fight won’t be ending any time soon.


It was the U.S. Justice Department’s investigation into the Ferguson Police Department after an officer killed Michael Brown in 2014 that “awakened” the federal government and much of the general public to the burden of municipal fines and fees, issued for everything from traffic violations, to mismatched curtains, to court costs. When people can’t afford to pay these fees, they end up with criminal warrants, drivers’ license suspensions, and even end up in jail.
The Justice Department’s investigation found that police in Ferguson, Missouri, had issued more than 90,000 citations and summons between 2010 and 2014, nearly 90 percent of which were given to African Americans. This discrimination was done intentionally, and Ferguson ratcheted up the volume on low-level offense citations and fines more as a way to raise revenue than for public safety, according to the DOJ investigation.
But Ferguson is far from the only city that was profiting from poor people this way. And the Justice Department doesn’t have the authority to investigate court systems for the kinds of patterns of abuse found in Ferguson like it does for investigating police departments.
A new report from the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights implores Congress to change that. In its report, “Targeted Fines and Fees Against Low-Income Communities of Color,” the commission lays out the scope of the problem with municipal fees and fines that can send people to jail, building on the findings of several other studies and lawsuits since Ferguson.
It’s important to understand how the fines and fees bubble started inflating to begin with. The civil-rights commission report pins this on the introduction of “broken windows” policies of the 1980s that focused law-enforcement work on low-level offenses. As arrests for those minor infractions increased, so did the fines and fees associated with them, reads the report, and cities began realizing that this was a solid revenue stream, particularly for municipal and court operations. That structure became even more appealing as a way of circumventing raising taxes, which was becoming increasingly difficult to do in the 1990s.
The fines’ and fees’ expansion tracked with the expansion of incarceration, which was fed, in no small part, by people jailed for failure to make these court payments. Data scientist Dan Kopf used Census data from 20,000 cities to find that municipalities with larger black and Latino populations were the ones that relied most heavily on court fines and fees for revenue. Kopf found no correlation between a city’s poverty rate and its reliance on fines and fees. Race was the deciding factor.
While race may be the prevailing factor in cities with heavy reliance on the court fines and fees complex, it remains true that it’s low-income people who most often get locked up because they can’t pay those legal obligations. Some of the key findings from the civil-rights commission’s report explain why this is problematic:
In addition to its Ferguson investigation, the Justice Department got a court system in Hinds County, Mississippi, to agree to stop incarcerating people for court-payment failures without an initial assessment of a defendant’s ability to pay. But the commission suggests that Congress also pass legislation that prohibits the “actual or threatened use of incarceration” for those who can’t afford to pay court fees and fines. That would knock the practice out in all cities once and for all, relieving the Justice Department from doing these investigations one by one.
Without federal intervention, some individual cities have put their own programs in place to limit the lasting impact of fines and fees. This weekend, hundreds of New Orleanians with outstanding traffic tickets, court fines, warrants, and suspended drivers licenses will have an opportunity to have their records cleared and financial obligations reduced at the Warrant Clinic, sponsored by the New Orleans Workers’ Center for Racial Justice. This is the organization’s second year doing this, though other criminal-justice-reform organizations hold similar clinics in the city.
There are fewer places better suited for this kind of amnesty work, given New Orleans’ reputation as an incarceration capital. The city earned the reputation in part for locking up poor residents when they don’t pay up. Louisiana recently passed a slate of reforms to end or curb many of these practices.
But if Congress banned the threat of incarceration, warrant clinics like the one sponsored by the New Orleans Workers Center for Racial Justice this weekend would no longer be warranted.


Representative Steve Scalise, the House Majority whip, returned to Congress after being shot at a congressional baseball team practice in June. Christopher Wray, President Trump’s pick to replace James Comey as the new FBI Director, was sworn in at the FBI Headquarters. Chief White House Economic Adviser Gary Cohn said the Trump administration’s new tax proposal is “purely aimed” at the middle class but said he “can’t guarantee” there won’t be tax increases for some middle-class families. The Trump administration temporarily waived the Jones Act, a law that would make it more difficult to send hurricane-relief supplies to Puerto Rico. Twitter executives met privately with members of both the House and Senate Intelligence Committees, as part of the panels’ probe into Russian interference in the 2016 election.
The Tipping Point: Trump’s divergent actions on economic and social issues could lead to the president, and the party, losing support from the GOP’s “country-club and working-class wings” alike. (Ronald Brownstein)
A Lost Vision: For decades, American liberals nurtured a vision for robust tax reform. Here’s how that vision died. (Julian Zelizer)
Happy Birthday, Food Stamps: Norm Ornstein explains the bipartisan beginnings of the Food Stamp Act, which Republicans have been trying to undo for years.
Tell Me What You Know: Virginia Senator Mark Warner called on media companies like Facebook and Twitter to be “extremely forthcoming” and help get to the bottom of Russian meddling in the presidential election. (Elaine Godfrey)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Don’t Mention It: During his closed interview with the Senate Intelligence Committee, White House adviser and President Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner reportedly “did not share the existence of his personal email account, which he has used for official business.” (Jake Tapper, CNN)
From Birmingham to Beijing: Roy Moore’s win in Alabama proved just how influential Steve Bannon can be—and now the former chief strategist is taking his cultural revolution to China. (Joshua Green, Bloomberg)  
Bipartisan Dislike: Once praised by both the left and right, tech corporations are now in the hot seat: Progressives wonder why workers can’t unionize, and conservatives see Silicon Valley leaders as “government colluders.” (Victor Davis Hanson, National Review)
Puerto Rico Needs Cash: The next disastrous shortage of resources on the island after electricity, gas, and water could be physical cash, as ATM machines are unable to be refilled. (Ben Fox and Danica Coto, Associated Press)
Good News for Businesses?: Wall Street executives are hopeful that the Republican tax plan will lower the corporate tax rate by as much as 20 percent, which they believe could lead to economic growth and greater profits for banks. (The Wall Street Journal)
In the Rear View: Dealmaker Bob Corker has announced his retirement from the Senate just as right-wing hardliner Roy Moore won the Republican Senate primary in Alabama. The development deals a blow to hopes for future bipartisanship in the chamber. (Carl Hulse, New York Times)
Break It Down: On Wednesday, the Trump administration unveiled a proposal to change the U.S. tax code. These six charts illustrate the plan’s key elements. (Alicia Parlapiano, The New York Times)
During a rally in Alabama last Friday, President Trump blasted NFL players who knelt during the national anthem. Trump’s remarks fueled widespread protests that played out on the sidelines over the weekend. Now, Trump is calling for football fans to boycott the NFL for “disrespecting our Flag & Country.”
Do you agree or disagree with the president’s position? Why or why not?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Taylor Hosking (@Taylor_Hosking), Lena Felton (@lenakfelton), and Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


When Nancy Pelosi joined other congressional leaders to meet Donald Trump at the White House just a few days after his inauguration in January, there was a sense of anticipation about what the new president would say.
After all, the House minority leader recalled on Thursday afternoon, this was Trump’s first opportunity to address the senior officers of the legislative branch—the men and (relatively few) women who would determine whether his ambitious agenda would become law.
“Will he quote the Bible? Will he quote our Founders? Will there be some poetry?” Pelosi remembered thinking. Speaking at the Washington Ideas Forum, an annual conference hosted by the Aspen Institute and The Atlantic, she drew some knowing chuckles from the crowd, which quickly recognized that any of those things would be out of character for the president.
Instead, Trump began with a falsehood about his loss of the popular vote to Hillary Clinton that would soon become infamous.
“You know I won the popular vote?” the president said to the congressional leaders. “Because 3 to 5 million people voted illegally.”
In hindsight, Trump’s wild assertion was not particularly surprising given the many similarly specious claims he has made since. But what was unusual about that January evening was that someone in the room—Pelosi—confronted him directly.
“Mr. President, that’s not true,” she responded. In Pelosi’s telling, she actually spoke out of turn. In meetings between the president and congressional leaders, it is traditional, she said, for the lawmakers to speak in order of rank—the speaker and Senate majority leaders first, then members of the minority party.
It would not be the last time Pelosi would speak out memorably in a White House meeting. During Thursday’s interview at the conference with ABC’s Jonathan Karl, she described publicly for the first time a scene from a meeting earlier this month when she and Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer extracted from Trump a commitment to support legislation protecting undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children. As Pelosi was trying to make a point, she recalled, a “Cabinet officer” (identified elsewhere as Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross) asked, “What do we get out of the deal?” Other Republican men in the room then began speaking about taxes.
Pelosi spoke up: “Does anyone listen when a woman speaks around here?”
The room quieted. “They didn’t even listen to me. They didn’t even listen,” Pelosi said Thursday.
Pelosi and Schumer’s relationship with Trump has become a subject of understandable fascination in Washington after the Democrats struck first a fiscal deal with the president and then a tentative agreement on immigration. Karl asked Pelosi, only half-jokingly, whether her relationship with the president is better than Trump’s relationship with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who has become a target of Trump and the conservative grassroots in recent months.
“I guess it’s an expectations game,” Pelosi replied after laughing. “He expects Mitch to pass bills for him. He doesn’t expect that of me.”
While Trump’s bickering with GOP leaders has gotten more attention, Pelosi and Schumer also have their own internal party politics to worry about. Many Democratic activists are leery of working too closely with a president they loathe and who has recently infuriated liberals and minorities with attacks on NFL demonstrators they see as clearly racist. Immigrant activists shouted down Pelosi at a recent press conference in her home city of San Francisco.
Asked about the likelihood of further collaboration with the president, she said Thursday she would take issues “one at a time” with Trump but seemed to reject the notion of all-out opposition. “He is the president of the United States,” Pelosi said. “We do have to find our common ground where we can and stand our ground where we can’t.”
One issue where Democrats plan to stand their ground, Pelosi said, was on taxes. Echoing other party leaders, she denounced the tax plan Trump and Republican leaders unveiled this week as deficit-busting tax cuts for the rich. “Don’t call this tax reform. It’s the same old trickle-down economics,” Pelosi said.
Democrats have leverage with the president only when he needs their votes, and as Republicans embark on a party-line approach to tax reform, it remains to be seen whether Pelosi’s opposition will be relevant. But the former House speaker seems to be enjoying her run of unexpected importance in Trump’s Washington. Pelosi joked that there was such intense interest in her meetings with the president that she was going to form a group. It will be called, she said, “the Fly-on-the-Wall Club.’”


Historians will record that for about half a decade, between the presidential campaigns of 2012 and 2016, Republicans tussled over whether to welcome anti-Muslim bigotry into their party. The response to Roy Moore’s nomination on Tuesday as the GOP’s Senate candidate in Alabama shows—even more clearly than Donald Trump’s election—that the fight is over. In today’s GOP, claiming that American Muslims don’t deserve equal rights has become so normal that prominent Republicans no longer object. They barely even notice.
To chart this moral descent, it’s worth starting in March 2011, when a reporter for ThinkProgress asked Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain: “Would you be comfortable appointing a Muslim either in your Cabinet or as a federal judge?” Cain’s reply: “No, I will not. And here’s why. There is this creeping attempt, there’s this attempt to gradually ease Sharia law and the Muslim faith into our government.”
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
The response from GOP elites was scathing. “We recognize that people of all faiths are welcome in this country,” said presidential frontrunner Mitt Romney when asked about Cain’s comments. “Our nation was founded on a principle of religious tolerance.” When Cain showed up to a breakfast hosted by anti-tax crusader Grover Norquist, several participants chastised him. Soon, Cain was insisting he had been misconstrued. By the summer, he had publicly apologized. “I remain humble and contrite for any statements I have made that might have caused offense to Muslim Americans and their friends,” he declared. “I am truly sorry for any comments that may have betrayed my commitment to the U.S. Constitution and the freedom of religion guaranteed by it.” For good measure, he visited a mosque.
In 2012, Congresswoman Michelle Bachmann made her own foray into Islamophobia by signing a letter, along with four House Republican colleagues, demanding an investigation into Hillary Clinton’s Muslim aide Huma Abedin. John McCain responded by going to the Senate Floor to declare that the assault on Abedin “is not only wrong; it is contrary to everything we hold dear as Americans.” House GOP leader John Boehner called the attacks “dangerous.” Ed Rollins, Bachmann’s own former campaign chairman wrote an oped on foxnews.com that concluded, “Shame on you, Michele! You should stand on the floor of the House and apologize to Huma Abedin and to Secretary Clinton and to the millions of hard working, loyal, Muslim Americans for your wild and unsubstantiated charges.” That was only five years ago.
Then it was Ben Carson’s turn. In September 2015, the surgeon turned presidential hopeful said, “I would not advocate that we put a Muslim in charge of this nation” because Islam was not “consistent with the Constitution.” The media responded by asking Carson’s rivals for comment, and most of them—even social conservative hardliners like Ted Cruz and Mike Huckabee—said they disagreed.
But then something interesting happened. Unlike Cain, Carson refused to apologize. Instead, he attacked the media and the left. Carson’s business manager, Armstrong Williams, declared on CNN’s morning show that his boss would continue “telling the truth, even if it makes CNN and others uncomfortable.” Carson’s campaign manager Barry Bennett crowed that, “While the left is huffing and puffing, the Republican primary voters are with us at least 80-20.” Donald Trump went even further. Asked by NBC’s Chuck Todd whether “putting a Muslim in the White House” is okay, Trump responded that, “some people have said it already happened.”
What changed between 2012 and 2015? Part of the answer is ISIS. Between 2014 and 2015, the group’s capture of Mosul, followed by a series of beheadings covered lavishly by the American media, produced a spike in fear of jihadist terrorism, especially on the right. Between 2014 and 2015, according to the Chicago Council of Global Affairs, the percentage of Republicans calling “Islamic fundamentalism” a “critical threat” jumped almost twenty points. Between 2010 and 2015, according to a poll by the Arab American Institute, favorable attitudes toward American Muslims fell 15 points. By December 2015, after the attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Americans were more afraid of terrorism than at any point since the immediate aftermath of 9/11.
Another part of the answer is the declining influence of traditional GOP elites. Days after Carson’s comments about a Muslim president, John Boehner—who had denounced Bachmann’s Islamophobia—stepped down as House Minority Leader. John McCain, who had also condemned Bachmann, was by 2015 so diminished among GOP voters that Trump could mock him for being captured in Vietnam and continue rising in the polls.
After the San Bernardino attack, Trump moved decisively to establish himself as the most anti-Muslim candidate in the race. He called for a temporary halt to Muslim immigration. And he again and again falsely accused American Muslims of cheering the 9/11 attacks.
Again, GOP elites voiced their disapproval. Trump’s Republican opponents unanimously criticized his Muslim ban. Mike Pence called it “offensive and unconstitutional.” Paul Ryan said Trump’s proposal “is not what this party stands for. More importantly, it’s not what this country stands for.”
But as Carson and Trump had both intuited, it didn’t matter. Rank and file Republicans backed the Muslim ban. Trump, like Carson, refused to back down. And the same Republicans who once denounced his policies as un-American—Pence, Ryan, Marco Rubio—now loyally serve his agenda as president.
Which brings us to Roy Moore. In his hostility to Islam, and his belief that American Muslims should not be allowed to serve in office, Moore stands firmly in the tradition of Cain, Bachmann, Carson and Trump. In 2006, when Muslim Congressman Keith Ellison swore his oath of office on a Koran, Moore compared it to taking an “oath on Mein Kampf” in 1943, and said Ellison should not be seated in Congress. This July, he called Islam a “false religion.” In August, he said, “There are communities under Sharia law right now in our country. Up in Illinois. Christian communities.” He later acknowledged that he had no idea if that was true. (It isn’t.)
What’s new isn’t what Moore has said. It’s the way leading Republicans have responded. There has been virtually no criticism at all. When CNN asked Wisconsin Senator Ron Johnson how he felt about Moore’s claim that Barack Obama was a Muslim, Johnson responded merely that, “no two people agree 100% of the time.” When asked by the Toronto Star about claims that Moore was anti-Muslim, the Chairman of the Russell County, Alabama, Republican Party replied, “I’m anti-Muslim too.” (He later explained that, “I don't have any problems with anybody’s religion as long as it’s Christian.”) When Republican National Committee Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel declared in an interview on Fox News that, “the voters did the right thing,” Moore’s anti-Muslim comments didn’t even come up. In the age of Donald Trump, most Republican politicians are now too afraid to condemn anti-Muslim bigotry. And increasingly, journalists no longer expect them to.
Politico’s John Bresnahan went searching for a single Republican Senator willing to criticize Moore’s anti-Muslim (and other discriminatory) views. No fewer than thirteen refused to do so. The sole exception was Arizona Senator Jeff Flake, who admitted that, “I’m obviously not enamored with his politics because that’s not the future of the Republican Party.”
Whether the Republican Party will embrace Moore’s brand of anti-Muslim bigotry in the future is a subject on which reasonable people might disagree. Whether the GOP embraces it today, sadly, is not.


Public-sector unions are heading back to the U.S. Supreme Court in a case that could deal a devastating blow. The justices agreed on Thursday to hear a challenge to the unions’ fee system in its upcoming term, setting up a major clash on organized labor one year after the Court deadlocked in a similar case.
The Court took up Janus v. American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, Council 31 in its first orders of the 2017-2018 term. The case centers on public-sector unions’ ability to collect what are known as agency fees, also sometimes called “fair-share fees.” It works like this: To fund their operations, these unions largely rely on dues and other contributions from their members. But they can also collect a smaller amount of fees from non-members who nonetheless benefit from the collective bargaining they provide—for example, higher wages and better working conditions.
Why Are Unions So Worried About an Upcoming Supreme Court Case?
Twenty-three states allow their public unions to collect the fees. The Supreme Court upheld the system in the 1977 case Abood v. Detroit Board of Education. Under Abood, unions can collect the fees without violating the Constitution so long as they only use the revenue to cover costs directly related to their collective-bargaining work. At the same time, the Court said, the money can’t be used to pay for a union’s political or ideological activities.
Mark Janus, an Illinois government employee backed by multiple conservative organizations, is asking the justices to overturn that decision. He argued in his petition to the Court that the fees amount to compelled speech, requiring him to subsidize political views he does not support in violation of the First Amendment. Because unions play a powerful civic and political role when striking collective-bargaining agreements, he considers this work to be inseparable from a union’s other political or ideological activities.
Organized-labor groups strongly disagree with Janus’s interpretation and opposed efforts to reconsider the 1977 precedent. Unions use the term “fair-share payments” because, they argue, the fees prevent non-members from free-riding on the collective-bargaining services from which they benefit. “At its core, Abood acknowledged that certain labor-relations interests justify the small intrusion on employees’ First Amendment interests that fair-share payments represent,” AFSCME Council 31 told the Court earlier this year.
If Janus prevails and Abood is overturned, the Court’s ruling could effectively act as a nationwide right-to-work law for the country’s public-sector workers, with potentially crushing implications for the funding and resources of the unions that represent them. AFSCME officials told Bloomberg that they estimated in 2015 that only about a third of the workers they represent would pay fees “no matter what,” and that about half were “on the fence” about it. In other words, if given the option to leave the union and avoid paying dues, many could take it and still be supported by collective-bargaining efforts.
“The Janus case is a blatantly political and well-funded plot to use the highest court in the land to further rig the economic rules against everyday working people,” Lee Saunders, the president of AFSCME, said in a statement. “The billionaire CEOs and corporate interests behind this case, and the politicians who do their bidding, have teamed up to deliver yet another attack on working people by striking at the freedom to come together in strong unions.”
The Court’s conservative members, led by Justice Samuel Alito, have also fired off signal flares on Abood in recent years. Writing for the majority in the 2012 case Knox v. Service Employees, Alito called the 1977 precedent “something of an anomaly” for its First Amendment implications. Two years later, in Harris v. Quinn, he criticized the Abood decision’s reasoning at length before concluding it was “questionable on several grounds.” The five-justice majority in Harris effectively telegraphed that they would be willing to overturn Abood in the future.
That opportunity presented itself during the 2015-2016 term when the Court agreed to hear Friedrichs v. California Teachers Association, which dealt with a similar fee system in California’s public schools. The justices heard oral arguments in January 2016 and appeared poised to overturn Abood. But the sudden death of Antonin Scalia the following month left the Court evenly divided between its liberal and conservative members. One month after his death, the justices announced they had deadlocked in a 4-4 split on Friedrichs. The outcome left a Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruling intact that hewed to Abood’s reasoning. When the Court reaches a 4-4 split, it leaves no national precedent and functions as if the justices had not agreed to hear the case at all.
The deadlock, and Scalia’s vacancy, essentially placed the future of public-sector unions in the hands of the 2016 presidential election. Justice Neil Gorsuch, who joined the Court in April after his nomination by President Trump, didn’t share his views on organized labor during his confirmation hearing. His track record as a judge on the Tenth Circuit strongly favored business interests over labor. Democrats also criticized Gorsuch during his confirmation hearing for a dissent he wrote in the case Trans Am Trucking v. Administrative Review Board. In it, he argued the law favored a company that fired a trucker for abandoning his vehicle after it broke down during a sub-zero winter night in Illinois.
Now, Janus offers Gorsuch his first opportunity since joining the Court to rule on a major labor case—one in which he would almost certainly provide the decisive fifth vote. Oral arguments have yet to be scheduled in the case; a final decision could come as soon as early next year.


Virginia Senator Mark Warner wants to know what Facebook saw during the election.
Reuters reported Wednesday night that executives from Facebook, Google, and Twitter have been asked to testify publicly before the Senate Intelligence Committee, where Warner is the ranking member. Part of its investigation into Moscow’s interference in the 2016 election, the November 1 hearing is expected to examine how Russian operatives used online tools to try to sow discord among the electorate and influence the race’s outcome.
In an interview with journalist Steve Clemons at the Washington Ideas Forum, an annual conference hosted by the Aspen Institute and The Atlantic, Warner did not confirm the specifics of Reuters’ reporting. But he nevertheless discussed his demand that Facebook, and other tech companies, take the Russia investigation seriously.
“The social-media companies—Facebook, Twitter, and we’re asking Google as well—at first were very dismissive of the fact that their platforms were used both as vehicles for paid [Russian] advertising [and] as places where Russians were able to create fake accounts” to promote specific groups and articles, Warner said. “I think they need to be extremely forthcoming.”
Before this month, Facebook had repeatedly denied that Russia used the site to influence the race, with CEO Zuckerberg initially dismissing the idea as “pretty crazy.” But the company said earlier this month that Russian-linked accounts purchased more than $100,000 worth of advertising on the social-media behemoth during the election. The purchasers reportedly used the ad buys to target America’s social divides. For example, The Washington Post reported that “some ads promot[ed] African American rights groups, including Black Lives Matter, and others suggest[ed] that these same groups pose a rising political threat.” Twitter and Facebook are also of interest to investigators because of the fake news stories and disinformation that circulated on their platforms during the campaign.
Warner has previously described the Russian effort as an attempt to “sow chaos,” and on Wednesday he expressed doubt that Zuckerberg’s company in particular didn’t know about it. “I think Facebook, in many ways, knows more about each of us than the United States government,” he said, “and the notion that somehow they weren’t aware of what was happening on their platforms … strains my credibility.” Facebook has so far located one of the sources of a Russian “troll farm” in St. Petersburg: an online-influence operation known as the Internet Research Agency that spreads propaganda.
“If you’re reading a political ad on Facebook or any platforms, you ought to know the source of that ad,” Warner said, adding that if a story is being driven to the top of a person’s newsfeed by “likes,” users should know whether the individuals doing the liking are who they say they are.
He seemed to frame his demands as part of a social compact between tech companies and the American people. Facebook, in particular, “[which] more than half of Americans look to every day, is built upon a level of trust.” He called on the companies to be transparent and share materials with his committee: “This is important in terms of Americans’ confidence in the information we receive.”


As recovery efforts in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico continue, the Trump administration has reversed course, deciding to temporarily waive a century-old law that requires cargo between U.S. ports be carried by American-flagged and-crewed ships.
Earlier this week, the Department of Homeland Security said it didn’t expect to waive the Jones Act, but White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said Trump granted it immediately after Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rosselló requested the move. The decision comes as Trump, who was criticized for being insufficiently attentive to the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, has begun to focus intensely on the island. But it’s unclear whether the waiver can have much immediate affect in easing the humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico, or whether it’s largely a symbolic move that telegraphs that Washington is listening.
Is the Federal Government Doing Enough for Puerto Rico?
Rosselló’s argument for the waiver is simple: Puerto Rico needs as much help as it can get, and restricting that aid to the small fleet of barges that carries most goods to and from the island creates a choke-point. As Trump pointed out, it is an island, which means that the trucking and railroad industries, key in moving goods in the aftermath of Harvey and Irma, aren’t a factor.
“By relaxing the Jones Act, you provide more opportunities and more vessels for goods to get an affected area,” explains Marc Fialkoff, an adjunct professor at Virginia Tech’s School of Public and International Affairs who has studied the law. “People get goods faster, because there aren’t that many U.S. vessels.”
Yet it’s tough to gauge the impact of the 10-day waiver announced Thursday. In the immediate term, Puerto Ricans are struggling to get food, water, medicine, and other basic necessities, but that’s not necessarily because they aren’t on the island. Once those goods reach Puerto Rican ports, it’s proven challenging to distribute them around an island whose roads, electrical grid, communications lines, and other basic infrastructure have been destroyed or badly damaged. Nor is clear how much excess capacity Puerto Rican ports can take, though Fialkoff cautions that should not slow any waiver.
The government issued a short-term Jones Act waiver after Harvey and Irma, but initially hesitated after Maria. It said the earlier waiver was necessary because without tankers of fuel reaching the Gulf Coast, gas prices would have skyrocketed. “We have a lot of shippers and a lot of people who work with the shippers who don’t want the Jones Act lifted,” President Trump said Wednesday.
But the president seems to have bowed to the political reality that issuing a waiver was politically popular. The problem facing mainland politicians is that there is a great deal of public pressure to show effort to help Puerto Rico, even as many of the steps under consideration don’t have clear, immediate impacts. The result has been a steady flow of arguments that Trump waive the Jones Act, often with little explanation of what immediate impact the step would have.
American carriers who supply Puerto Rico under the Jones Act contend that’s because there wouldn’t be an impact. “The biggest challenge is how you can move the cargo,” Jose Ayala, vice president of Puerto Rico services at Crowley, one of those carriers, told The Wall Street Journal earlier this week. “The cargo is here. The people of Puerto Rico should not have any fear that there is not going to be food or medicine on the island.”
That’s accurate as far as it goes, say some experts. “I think that's true this week, but that's not going to stay true,” says Salim Furth, a research fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation who has argued that the federal government should waive the Jones Act for Puerto Rico as long as federal aid is flowing to the island. “We need a long-term waiver. If they’re using mainland taxpayer money, they should be able to use American goods.”
Here’s the problem, as Furth sees it: Rebuilding Puerto Rico will require huge amounts of goods like steel, concrete, cinder block, and lumber. But transporting those goods on the existing Jones Act fleet will cause various problems. For one, the fleet already runs a tight schedule moving everyday goods to the island, and it’s not clear that it can add huge shipments of building supplies without crowding out basic supplies, nor that the barges that make the runs are well-suited for other cargo. For another, the cost of transporting those goods from the mainland on American-flagged carriers will push up the costs, and lead Puerto Ricans to turn to cheaper goods from Caribbean and Latin American countries. As of a 2013 Government Accountability Office report, roughly two-thirds of vessels bring cargo to Puerto Rico are foreign.
The Jones Act is a classic protectionist law, put in place to prop up the American maritime industry. That makes it appealing to politicians like Trump, who were elected in part on promises of protectionism. But critics of the law like Furth argue that the Jones Act is actually hurting more American workers than it’s helping, by artificially increasing the cost of getting U.S.-made goods to places like Puerto Rico, Alaska, and Hawaii, and that the true America-first option would be to dismantle the Jones Act.
The debate over whether the law remains sensible nearly 100 years after it was first implemented is a subject of intense debate in pockets of the country—places where residents rely on cargo ships for basic goods, like Hawaii, and in regions whose economies are tied to shipbuilding, like the Gulf Coast—but only occasionally does the mandate bubble up in national discourse. For those fighting to dismantle the act, especially, the disaster in Puerto Rico offers a rare opportunity for political change.
The coalition against the law crosses party lines. Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican, has emerged as one of the law’s fiercest critics. Puerto Ricans have long disliked the law, complaining that it raises the price of many goods for the territory, whose economy is already in shambles. Assessing the exact cost, however, is all but impossible. The GAO found that rates to Puerto Rico had dropped between 2006 and 2010, but effectively threw up its hands in despair and said it was too complicated to calculate what effect removing or altering the Jones Act might have.
Rosselló, a Democrat, hinted at this debate during an interview on MSNBC Wednesday, in which he asked for the waiver and added, “We can have a larger discussion later if [the Jones Act] is important in the long run or not.” A group of Democrats in the House, led by Puerto Rican-born New Yorker Nydia Velazquez, this week called for a one-year waiver of the Jones Act for Puerto Rico.
Arrayed against changing the Jones Act are the shippers, longshoremen, and others involved in the existing trade, as Trump indicated in his remarks Wednesday. “The power of this maritime lobby is as powerful as anybody or any organization I have run up against in my political career,” McCain said in 2014.
Issuing a 10-day waiver is politically palatable, but Furth says it’s also inadequate. “A year, two-year, three-year waiver would actually allow American workers to have jobs funded by the Puerto Rico rebuilding,” he says. “I hope there’s a message that says, this isn’t just about charity. Free trade with ourselves benefits everyone.”
The obvious endpoint of this argument is that if waiving the Jones Act provides such clear benefits long after the storm has passed, but while rebuilding is ongoing, why should it exist at all?
That’s part of a much longer political fight that’s been raging over the Jones Act for years. Right now, the American public demands action—and it will get action, in the form of short-term waivers, even if that’s not the most effective way to help Puerto Ricans.


After his losing effort to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, President Trump is now moving on to “tax reform.” On Wednesday, he unveiled the outlines of his fiscal package, which will include slashing the corporate income tax rate from 35 to 20 percent, lower the top income tax rate from 39.6 to 35 percent, doubling the standard deduction for individual taxpayer, and increasing the lowest rate from 10 to 12 percent. The plan will include some loophole-closing reforms, though the details of the package are not yet clear. Trump was blunt about his rhetorical strategy at a meeting with evangelical leaders, when he reportedly said that talking about “tax reform” was a smarter strategy for communicating about the initiative than talking about “tax cuts.”
How Much Do Tax Cuts Really Matter?
Trump’s definition of tax reform reveals how much has changed in recent decades. Tax reform once meant raising tax rates on wealthier Americans and closing loopholes that benefited powerful economic interests, all with the goal of redistributing income from the top to the middle and bottom income brackets. Until the 1980s, a progressive tax system was seen as the best mechanism for diminishing the gap that existed between the wealthiest and poorest Americans, while funding a social safety net to shore up the middle class and fund the military.
Today, even most of the president’s opponents on Capitol Hill will probably not push back against Trump’s proposal by calling for the kind of robust tax-reform agenda that had once been sine qua non for American liberalism.
Before 1913, the United States didn’t even have a progressive income tax at the federal level. In times of peace, the government derived most of its income from mechanisms that fell hardest on working Americans, like consumption taxes and tariffs.
During the early 1900s, populist and progressive reformers embraced the idea of a progressive income tax as one of the most important reforms that would create a just society. In 1913, the government finally established a federal income tax with the ratification of the 16th Amendment. The tax only impacted about 1 percent of the nation, but it was still a major victory for progressive forces. The estate tax, established in 1916, was also meant to recast the tax burden toward the well-off.
During World War II, President Roosevelt and the Democrats vastly expanded the tax by increasing the number of people subject to the system and instituting the policy of withholding to make collection speedier and more efficient. There were other moves in the 20th century to make federal taxes more progressive. During World War I, Congress enacted an excess-profits tax that put into place a graduated tax on profits made by businesses above the “normal” rate of return. During the Great Depression, Roosevelt responded to Senator Huey Long’s “Share Our Wealth” campaign—which criticized him for still relying too heavily on regressive consumption taxes—by calling on Congress to tax wealth at higher rates to curb “entrenched greed.” During his address introducing the plan, Roosevelt proclaimed that “great accumulations of wealth cannot be justified on the basis of personal and family security” in a speech that left one corporate lawyer “frothing at the mouth.” Congress passed a “wealth tax” through the Revenue Act of 1935 that affected the highest incomes and estates. In 1936, Congress passed an undistributed corporate-profits tax.
Under Roosevelt, the Justice Department also cracked down on tax evasion, including a high-profile (though unsuccessful) effort to prosecute former Treasury Secretary Andrew Mellon for failing to pay $3 million in taxes. “I consider that Mr. Mellon is not on trial but Democracy and the privileged rich and I want to see who will win,” said Secretary of Treasury Henry Morgenthau, who was behind the effort. The tax historian Elliot Brownlee showed that New Deal tax measures raised the effective rate on the top 1 percent of Americans to 15.7 percent in 1937 from 6.8 percent in 1932. To finance World War II, Roosevelt initially pushed for a pretty radical tax agenda that would fall hardest on the wealthiest. But by then, the backlash from the business community had set in, and much of FDR’s boldest initiatives fell to defeat. He settled for another excess profits tax that didn’t accomplish his initial ambitions.
But progressive tax reform enjoyed a second life in the 1960s when Democrats focused their energy on the fight to close the loopholes that allowed wealthier Americans and business interests to escape their obligations. Loophole-closing reform became a regular demand in Democratic platforms. One of the gurus behind progressive tax reform in the 1960s was a man named Stanley Surrey, an unassuming Harvard-educated lawyer who worked high up in the Department of Treasury under Presidents Kennedy and Johnson. Surrey popularized the idea of “tax expenditures” to show just how significant the impact was of these provisions that were normally hidden from public view. According to Surrey, the federal government was actually spending money through the tax code by offering assistance to industries and encouraging private capital investment.
One of the most notorious expenditures was the oil-depletion allowance, which allowed industry officials to write off the costs of exploration. Unlike direct budget expenditures, such as federal welfare, the tax expenditures never had to be reauthorized nor did the public even know what most of them were. The abstruse world of tax lawyers, accountants, lobbyists, and congressional tax-writing committees carved these provisions into the tax code where they became a permanent fixture. Surrey and his team of legal eagles promoted this idea through a series of studies and books that showed just how vast this spending was.
The United States might have been a laggard on health care and anti-poverty initiatives, but Surrey revealed that the government did pretty well when it came to subsidizing better-off Americans through the tax code. This second wave of progressive tax reformers never achieved the same legislative success as their predecessors earlier in the century who created the tax code. Surrey’s studies helped to produce tax-reform legislation in 1969, though it was far short of the housecleaning he hoped for. Democrats clung on to the goal of eliminating tax expenditures as part of their agenda in the 1970s. Young Turks in Congress eliminated the oil depletion allowance in 1975 as part of their reforms. In his 1980 concession speech at the Democratic Convention, Senator Ted Kennedy, fighting to keep the liberal tradition alive, said to his fervent supporters: “And to all those overburdened by an unfair tax structure, let us provide new hope for real tax reform. Instead of shutting down classrooms, let us shut off tax shelters. Instead of cutting out school lunches, let us cut off tax subsidies for expensive business lunches that are nothing more than food stamps for the rich.”
But this vision of tax reform died on the vine of the conservative revolution. There were two major sources of conservative opposition to the income-tax system, which were not always on the same page. The first stemmed from a deregulatory impulse that led conservative business figures and economists to see tax breaks and tax incentives as yet another inefficient regulatory policy that skewed economic activity. Just put in one flat rate, they said, and then let the market make decisions about where money should be invested. The second source of opposition grew out of a broader animus to the notion of progressivity itself. Tax activists like Grover Norquist worked hard to bring these two strains of thought together, but they were following the lead of Ronald Reagan who rocked Washington’s tax policy status quo when he entered the Oval Office in January 1981.
During the 1980s, one of the most consequential changes was the struggle by President Reagan and the warriors of the right to undercut the belief in the progressive tax system. Reagan, who said that the system came “direct from Karl Marx,” pushed through Congress a historic reduction in corporate and individual tax rates in 1981.The Economic Recovery Act of 1981 provided the biggest benefits to wealthier Americans based on the theory of supply-side economics, which stipulated the money saved by the private sector would be reinvested and ultimately bring economic reward for all.
Five years later, Reagan would surprise many observers when he decided to work with congressional Democrats on a tax-reform package that would include some of the most sweeping loophole closing reforms until that time. Part of his interest stemmed from conservative arguments that tax incentives were inefficient and distorted market behavior. But another part of the reason Reagan went along with the legislation was that in order to win support from the Republican Senate, Democrats agreed to reduce the personal and corporate income tax rates to historically low levels. While the deal allowed reformers to claim that the public interest had finally been victorious, the cost of this bargain was to lower the tax burden for wealthier Americans. Those rates never really recovered. At the same time, interest group-pressure quickly mounted. In response, Congress reopened the code to more loopholes in the decades that followed, all but erasing the reforms of 1986.
The conservative revolution had its effect in the 1980s. Reagan had discredited the idea of progressive income-tax reform that had animated Democratic politics for almost a century. Although Presidents Clinton and Obama were able to raise rates slightly as part of their deficit reduction plans in 1993 and 2010, their efforts were a far cry from the sweeping vision of reform that had resulted in the creation of the modern tax system. When politicians have proposed tax reform in recent years, the ideas have usually come from Republicans who want to replace the inefficient system of loopholes with a flat rate that will fall equally on all income brackets, or with fewer brackets at lower rates.
Equally important was the fact that the Democratic Party in the 1990s ran away from much of the robust economic vision that had defined the party since the progressive and New Deal eras. Many Democrats accepted some of the market-based premises of conservative politics, backing away from central parts of their core domestic agenda like progressive taxation and economic regulation. The growing power of corporate interest groups in Washington, which mobilized huge teams of lobbyists and threw around sizable campaign donations, made both parties less willing to hear demands for redistributive public policy. As Jacob Hacker and Paul Pierson documented, the K Street Lobby closed the gap between Democrats and Republicans on economic policy, which in turn widened the gap between America’s rich and poor.
So it is not a surprise that when Trump talks about tax reform, the heart of his proposal revolves around cutting taxes for corporate America as well as upper-income Americans. What has been lost in American politics is a vision of public policy offering real mechanisms for reducing economic inequality and raising revenue on a fair basis. What has almost totally disappeared is political support for the kind of a progressive tax system that was in place during the most economically robust period in nation’s history—what we still call the American Century.
When Congress debates Trump’s plan in the coming weeks, it will be important for members concerned with rising inequality to look back to a period when tax reform meant something very different. Only by reclaiming that older vision will Congress be able to counteract the influence of corporations and the affluent that have been reshaping American politics for decades and making Franklin Roosevelt’s vision of a more equitable capitalism a vanishing memory.


The end of September marks the 40th anniversary of the Food Stamp Act, the program that institutionalized the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP. Its passage was a model of how to make constructive and important legislation, finding common ground by making tradeoffs across all the usual boundaries. In this case, the key players included George McGovern and Bob Dole, Tom Foley and Shirley Chisholm, among others.
The Messy Relationship Between Food Stamps and Health
The McGovern-Dole alliance was a striking one. When I came to Washington in 1969-70, I witnessed the near-nuclear conflict between the two men. First, McGovern, a passionate opponent of U.S. involvement in Vietnam, went on the floor of the Senate on September 1, 1970 and fingered his colleagues for their culpability: “This chamber reeks of blood.” A collective gasp went through the gallery; senators didn’t talk like this! A few weeks later, freshman Republican Senator Bob Dole took to the floor and ripped McGovern. (McGovern later said that the Bob Dole of that era was “tough and mean.”)
But the two men built a different relationship around the issue of food. McGovern cared deeply about hunger in America. Dole cared deeply about the plight of farmers, who were whipsawed by the commodity markets and prices that sank when there was too much surplus food. That was the basis for a partnership that turned into a legendary friendship spanning four decades, until McGovern’s death in 2012. They used the relationship, and their overlapping interests, to build the broad coalition for the Food Stamp Act, even as the presidency was transitioning from Republican Gerald Ford to Democrat Jimmy Carter, through a stiff headwind against major policy movement in Congress.
They had backup in the House, as liberals Tom Foley and Shirley Chisholm forged their own alliances with conservative farm-state representatives on the Agriculture Committee.  Foley was a brilliant legislator who later became chairman of the committee and then speaker of the House. Brooklyn’s Chisholm, an outspoken African American woman who later broke ground by running for president, had been placed on the Agriculture Committee to put her in her place; she said at the time, “I know a tree grows in Brooklyn, but this is ridiculous.” But on the advice of an Orthodox rabbi in her district, she turned her efforts to helping the hungry.
SNAP has been an enormous success story, feeding hungry, poor people. Forget the outrageous anecdotes about food stamp recipients feasting on lobster; consider instead a story I wrote about when I last addressed this issue four years ago, from a column by Katy Waldman in Slate, based on a conversation she had with Debra, a single mother in Washington whose food stamp allotment had been cut from $203 a month to $130. This is what Debra said about getting by on $203 a month:
It’s me and my daughter at home. She’s 21. It was bad enough before the cuts. We were eating lunch meat all week, and we only had enough for a can of vegetables a day. Divide $203 by 30 days, and then by three meals, and then halve it for each person. It’s not a lot.
Here’s the math: At $203 a month, that is $1.13 per meal for each person every day. Go ahead—try to eat on a dollar a meal (72 cents a meal for Debra and her daughter after the cuts.) You can have your Starbucks Chai Latte—if you forego food for the day.
According to Feeding America, 42 million Americans suffer from what the experts call food insecurity—for many, it is simply hunger, period; for others, it is like Debra, rarely if ever getting a full and nutritious meal, often finding near the end of the month that there is nothing left to buy food until the next allotment of food stamps, and perhaps getting by with food banks. According to the Department of Agriculture, 80 percent of SNAP benefits are used within the first half of the month. The consequences of food insecurity are bad; trouble concentrating, more vulnerable to illness. A new study by University of South Carolina researchers found that kids who took tests near the beginning of the month when they had more food stamps did significantly better than those who took the same tests near the end of the month, when they were less able to have regular meals. Another longitudinal study found that poor children with access to SNAP benefits, years later had lower rates of heart disease and obesity, along with better high school performance, than kids who did not. Leaving people hungry hurts not just them, but the entire society, adding to health costs and reducing productivity.
SNAP has dramatically reduced the problems of dire hunger, at least providing a kind of lifeline for millions of Americans—and not just those who do not work. In fact, 81 percent of SNAP benefits go to those who are working or to those we do not expect to work—children, the elderly, the disabled. In other words, SNAP benefits the most vulnerable among us, especially those in dire poverty. It is one of the most successful programs we have had in our social safety net.
Why write about food stamps now, other than the 40-year milestone? Because yet again, Republicans, including the Trump administration, are going after SNAP with a meat ax. President Trump’s budget calls for a cut of more than 25 percent over five years, massively shifting the burden to states, cutting eligibility, and hammering the benefits now going to millions of children, elderly and the disabled. Even as they shift the burden to states that are not prepared to jack up their own budgets, the president and his budget crew want to allow the states to pare basic benefits way below a marginally healthy diet that will make Debra’s situation look great by comparison.
Now it is true that SNAP is not the only program dealing with hunger. For kids, we also have the school lunch program—from which Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue wants to remove the nutrition requirements for healthy food put in place at the urging of Michelle Obama. There is Meals on Wheels for seniors—and the Trump budget blows up community block grants that provide a sizable share of the funding for that program. So if Trump, his Budget Director Mick Mulvaney, and congressional Republicans get their way, the hungry will grow a lot more hungry and a lot less healthy.
For me and many other Jews, this time of year, the High Holy Days, is a time to reflect on what we have done, individually and collectively, in the past year to help or hurt both our loved ones and others, and what we can and will do in the year ahead. But this is a time for all of us to reflect on what kind of society we want to live in. Let’s keep in mind Hubert Humphrey’s eloquent appeal: The moral test of government is how that government treats those who are in the dawn of life, the children; those who are in the twilight of life, the elderly; and those who are in the shadows of life, the sick, the needy and the handicapped.
Our government met that test 40 years ago. We are on the verge of failing it, miserably, now.


In “The First White President,” Ta-Nehisi Coates argued that, “to Trump, whiteness is neither notional nor symbolic but is the very core of his power.” White supremacy, Coates wrote, was the main catalyst for Trump’s white voters. The piece was sweeping in the ground it covered and breathtaking in its storytelling; it also completely failed to validate Coates’s argument.
The First White President
I read the essay more than once, took scores of notes, researched polling data that matched statistics he listed, and highlighted several parts that piqued my curiosity. This was no small undertaking, as Coates is as elegant in his writing as he is comprehensive in his research. His essay, an excerpt from his new book We Were Eight Years in Power, covered everything from the racially disparaging comments of Donald Trump to the historical relationship between the white working class and black slaves in the South, to the flaws found in progressive arguments that the reason for Trump’s rise can be found primarily in grievances felt by the white working class.
Coates cites the fact that Trump was elected to office despite making sexually suggestive comments about his daughter and justifying sexual assault in general while a black president, say, Barack Obama, would have never been able to do so and get elected. He also points to the fact that Trump challenged almost all of Obama’s major policies, making Trump “the negation of Obama’s legacy [and] the foundation of his own,” as well as the fact that the majority of white people who voted, voted for Trump.
Yet none of these points actually demonstrate that the dominating force behind the success of Trump’s campaign was white supremacy. The answer to Coates’s rhetorical question of whether Barack Obama could have gotten into office after a record of sexual assault is obviously no. But Coates does not contemplate the possibility that what made people willing to excuse Trump’s boorish behavior was not his whiteness, but his status as a celebrity entertainer in which his vulgarity was a widely accepted aspect of his persona. So when Coates asks whether we can “imagine a black felon running in a primary against an incumbent white president doing so well,” the proper parallel would be imagining a well-known entertainer whose social capital has accrued in the past few decades of television and digital media. Kanye 2020 anyone?
But the broader issue with the essay is that in the world that Coates has constructed for his reader, it is impossible for the source of the problem to be anything but whiteness, “that bloody heirloom which cannot ensure mastery of all events but can conjure a tailwind for most of them.” Maybe the majority of Trump’s white supporters wanted to repeal the former president’s legislation because of actual policy disagreements; or, maybe they, like others, harbored deep dislike for Hillary Clinton. After all, Clinton lost critical states like Michigan and, as Omri Ben-Shahar wrote in Forbes, Clinton did so less because Trump gained new voters in these states than because registered Democrats did not show up on Election Day, possibly due to voter-ID laws and other factors. “Wisconsin tells the same numbers story,” he wrote. “Trump got no new votes. He received exactly the same number of votes in America’s dairyland as Romney did in 2012 … But Clinton again could not spark many Obama voters to turn out for her: she tallied 230,000 votes less than Obama did in 2012. This is how a 200,000-vote margin for Obama in the Badger State became a 30,000-vote defeat for Clinton.”
The distribution of minority votes tells a similar story. National Public Radio’s Domenico Montanaro points out that although Latinos made up a greater share of the electorate than in previous elections, “a significant share … went third party.” Indeed, that 6 percent may have made a significant difference. In North Carolina, black voters made up 20 percent of the electorate in 2016, a 3 percent decline from their share in 2012. Charles Ellison of the Philadelphia Tribune notes that between 2012 and 2016 there was “an alarming 11.4 percent reduction in Black votes.”
At the very least, this demonstrates that decreased democratic turnout had as much if not more of an impact in the election than Trump’s ability to rally supporters. Of course, none of this is to absolve Trump supporters for making unwise voting decisions, but if Coates wants to prove that white supremacy was the dominating force fueling the rise of Trump, he must demonstrate that all other possible motives are implausible—which he doesn’t.
In assessing whether income was the determining factor, Coates listed the following statistics: “Trump won whites making less than $50,000 by 20 points, whites making $50,000 to $99,999 by 28 points, and whites making $100,000 or more by 14 points. This shows that Trump assembled a broad white coalition that ran the gamut from Joe the Dishwasher to Joe the Plumber to Joe the Banker.”
He concludes that, “Trump’s white support was not determined by income.” But actually this shows that his white support was not determined only by income, even though it varied widely by economic status.
Coates writes that since among working-class Americans, 61 percent of whites—but only 24 percent of Hispanics and 11 percent of blacks—supported Trump, only “whiteness” can be the culprit. But why did any percentage of working class blacks and Hispanics vote for Trump? Do they also secretly harbor white-supremacist viewpoints? Did they too inherit the all-powerful white heirloom? Or is it possible that all of these groups were motivated by a variety of factors, not least among them a visceral and uncompromising dislike of Hillary Clinton?
Beware the deceptive allure of binary choices that masquerade as arguments. Coates’s failure to imagine complexity in human motives yields the assumption that such complexity cannot possibly exist.
Coates is at his best when he confronts the shortcomings of his progressives peers like Mark Lilla and George Packer who do not consider the possibility of intricate motives fueling voting blocs. Packer “offers no opinion polls to weigh white workers’ views on ‘elites,’ much less their views on racism,” Coates writes, critiquing his reductionist impulse to say Trump’s rise is only or mostly due to economic grievance. But Coates himself is equally reductive in concluding that it is due to white supremacy.
His essay contributes to a politically toxic environment in which challenging the orthodoxies of the left and the right becomes heresy. Echo chambers are fortified. An us vs. them mentality becomes the only possible explanation for what’s going on.
The danger of proceeding in this way is not simply the acceptance of logical fallacies. Using a single factor to explain the election forfeits a golden opportunity to grapple with the layered motives that are always in play in human affairs. And a popular discourse that assumes the worst about Americans has a chilling affect on the rest of the country, tears at the fabric of our institutions, and accelerates the disintegration of our social and civic bonds.


Donald Trump and the Republican Congress this week are straining every fraying seam in their party’s coalition.
In just days, Trump’s White House has advanced aggressively nationalistic initiatives on trade and immigration, while also starting an incendiary fight with protesting NFL players. Each of these confrontations has energized elements of his blue-collar political base but alarmed an array of business leaders usually aligned with the GOP.
Simultaneously, Trump and congressional Republicans have been finalizing a plan to massively cut taxes after mounting their latest futile push to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Those efforts reflect top priorities of the business community, but would sublimate, or actively undermine, the economic interests of Trump’s blue-collar supporters.
How Trump's Reaction to Charlottesville Threatens the GOP
These divergent actions crystallize the challenge Republicans face melding their traditional small-government agenda with Trump’s bristling economic nationalism and increasingly overt appeals to white racial resentments.
The crusade to shrink government frequently threatens the financial needs of the older and blue-collar white voters who have provided the most receptive audience for Trump’s racially barbed populism. But that populism, particularly when it stokes racial resentment most openly, grates on the values of those most receptive to the low-tax, less-spending agenda—namely, business leaders and the broader circle of fiscally conservative white-collar voters.
The decisive victory of former state chief justice Roy Moore, a flamboyantly polarizing culture warrior, in Tuesday’s Alabama Senate primary offers one measure of which vision is ascendant in the party. Senator Luther Strange, the appointed establishment replacement for now-Attorney General Jeff Sessions, drew tenacious support from business and Senate GOP leadership (along with a more tepid endorsement from Trump). Yet Moore’s win demonstrated that the appeal of Trump-style populism is still rising in the GOP. His victory is sure to inspire other anti-establishment candidates to pursue primary races that will sharpen the GOP’s fault lines.
Republicans have usually found ways to balance the contrasting priorities of their country-club and working-class wings since Richard Nixon first attracted large numbers of blue-collar whites half a century ago. But the tension is growing more acute under Trump, because the GOP is now pressing so hard on both fronts.
While previous Republican leaders formulated tax proposals that tilted most of their benefits to their upper-income supporters, rarely has the party tried to revoke benefits from its lower-income supporters as sweepingly as during the serial efforts to repeal the ACA. And while the GOP has tapped racial anxieties before, Trump has made his appeals to white racial resentments far more overtly—from his refusal to immediately condemn Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke during the GOP primaries to his “very fine people” moral equivalency about Charlottesville.
Even under these pressures, the bonds connecting the Republican coalition could still hold. Some Democrats fear that if Republicans pass a big tax cut they will reel back many business leaders and college-educated white voters who have recoiled from Trump. Conversely, some conservative operatives believe Trump can surmount any doubts about his economic allegiance among blue-collar and older whites if he remains their defender against the cultural forces he says are threatening “our culture” and “our history.”
But the past week’s events point toward another possibility: that Trump and the GOP could lose just enough support on each front to leave the party vulnerable.
The widespread backlash last weekend against Trump’s attacks on NFL players protesting police brutality—even from an array of wealthy team owners who had supported his campaign—sent the same message as the earlier exodus of business leaders from his administration’s advisory councils after Charlottesville. Both incidents showed that even business leaders who largely agree with Trump’s economic agenda concluded they could not remain associated with his racial views. That’s either because they were personally offended, or they considered the association politically indefensible given the increasing diversity of their own workforces and customer base.
Another crack in Trump’s upscale support surfaced in Monday’s Wall Street Journal. U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas Donohue has staunchly supported Trump’s deregulatory and tax-cutting agenda, pushed hard for ACA repeal, and spent tens of millions of dollars to elect Republicans to Congress. But in the Journal, Donohue wrote that if the administration quits NAFTA, as Trump again suggested this week, it would be “an economic, political, and national-security disaster.” His alarm over Trump’s trade policy is seconded by leading agricultural interests critical to the GOP’s rural strength.
Business leaders haven’t yet commented in big numbers on the revised travel ban that the Trump administration released this week. But virtually all of the nation’s leading technology companies sued to block an earlier version. And business leaders (as well as most white-collar whites in polls) are broadly dubious of the proposal from Trump and some Senate Republicans to cut legal immigration in half.
Cracks are also evident in the coalition’s working-class wing. The failed efforts to repeal the ACA have drawn consistent opposition in polls from older and blue-collar whites—understandably so, since studies show both groups would be big losers under the GOP plans. If House Republicans advance Speaker Paul Ryan’s long-standing effort to convert Medicare into a premium-support, or voucher, system, polls suggest these core constituencies would resist even more. Meanwhile, in this week’s ABC/Washington Post poll, non-college-educated whites strongly opposed cutting taxes for the wealthy, and only half supported reducing them for business.
Trump’s gravitational pull is wrenching the GOP into a new shape that bonds his own turbulent priorities onto the party’s existing agenda. Unwilling to spin free from Trump, Republicans can only wonder if he is building a durable new coalition, or recklessly shattering the one he inherited.


For once, the American press is in complete agreement: Roy Moore, the hard-right former judge who was swept to victory Tuesday night in Alabama’s Republican Senate primary, is a firebrand.
The New York Times adopted the appellation for Moore when it called the race in his favor, as did the Associated Press and The Washington Post. Reuters called him both a “conservative firebrand” and an “outspoken evangelical Christian.” At The Weekly Standard, a Trump-skeptical conservative publication, Moore was cast not only as a firebrand but a “notorious firebrand.” The BBC, which has a global audience, made sure to specify that Moore was an “Alabama firebrand.” (For this magazine’s part, my colleague Rosie Gray aptly described him as the “insurgent candidate” in her report from Moore’s victory party in Montgomery.)
Trumpism Wins in Alabama, Even If Trump Doesn't
The linguistic consensus is unsurprising. For newspaper and wire-service journalists cautious about injecting bias into their writing, “firebrand” is a useful word to describe those on the outer bands of political thought. Think of it as a promotion—or demotion, depending on one’s perspective—from “controversial,” the Swiss Army knife of political reporting. Medieval English writers first began using “firebrand” in the 14th century as a byword for demagogues and rabble-rousers. In modern journalism, it still conveys a spirit of extremism and agitation without the editorial fuss of calling a high-profile elected official an “extremist” or an “agitator.”
That said, calling someone a firebrand doesn’t always carry moral overtones. The Times also used it this year to describe Becca Haller, an energetic lawyer challenging President Trump’s travel ban; Glenn Beck, a conservative pundit and former Fox host; and Yogi Adityanah, a hardline Indian Hindu cleric with links to sectarian militants. I even referred to Antonin Scalia as a “judicial firebrand” in my obituary for him last year, aiming for the revolutionary sense of the word more so than its demagogic or subversive implications.
Does Moore qualify for the term? The conservative jurist first rose to national attention in 2001 after he placed a two-ton monument of the Ten Commandments in the rotunda of the Alabama Supreme Court building. Moore, a devout evangelical Christian, defended the installation by claiming it represented the Abrahamic God’s role as the source of American law. The ACLU and other groups sued to remove it for violating the Constitution’s proscription of government establishment of religion.
A federal judge ruled against Moore on First Amendment grounds in 2003 and ordered him to remove the monument, but he refused to carry out the court’s order. The Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals sided with the lower court, pointedly likening Moore’s resistance to “those Southern governors who attempted to defy federal court orders during an earlier era”—a reference to segregationists who fought the civil-rights movement. For defying the federal courts, the Alabama Court of the Judiciary stripped him of his chief justiceship.
“I’d do it all the same all over again,” Moore told the Times shortly thereafter. “I said it back then and I’ll say it again now. God is the basis of our law and our government. I cannot and will not violate my conscience.”
Rejecting the authority of federal courts isn’t his only extreme view. Moore is also an unrepentant birther who cast doubt on Barack Obama’s legitimacy as president as recently as last year. He once urged Congress to block Minnesota Representative Keith Ellison from taking his seat in the House because of Ellison’s Muslim faith. In a speech earlier this year, Moore quoted scripture to argue that the September 11 terrorist attacks may have stemmed from increasing secularization in American society.
In the 2012 election, Moore narrowly won back his old position as Alabama’s chief justice. The judicial comeback ended four years later in a clash with federal judges over marriage equality. Seven months after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down same-sex marriage bans nationwide in Obergefell v. Hodges, he issued an administrative order in January 2016 instructing Alabama’s probate judges not to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples.
Moore justified the move by noting that Alabama’s high court was still mulling a lawsuit on how to implement the high court’s ruling. But his order nonetheless brought him in direct conflict with a series of federal court rulings directing probate judges to do the opposite. Moore also made no secret of his feelings about LGBT rights in general over the years. His animus had led him to conclude that “homosexual conduct” should be illegal, and that gay and lesbian Americans should be barred from military service and legal recognition. After Obergefell, he told a church congregation that the Court had “just destroyed the institution of God.”
A few months after he issued his order, the Alabama Judicial Inquiry Commission, the state’s disciplinary board for judges, charged him with six counts of violating judicial ethics. Four months after that, the Alabama Court of the Judiciary suspended Moore for the duration of his term; a majority of the court’s judges had wanted to remove him from office entirely. The ruling effectively ended his judicial career until 2019 at the earliest. Moore subsequently resigned from the office so he could run for the Senate vacancy opened by Jeff Sessions’s confirmation as attorney general earlier this year.
If he wins in his general election in December, Moore will have taken one of the more unusual paths to the Senate in modern American political history. His aggressive efforts to impose his evangelical Christian views upon the legal system and American civic life led to his removal from office not once, but twice. By defying federal court orders on multiple occasions, he’s undermined the rule of law and placed himself above federal courts. “Firebrand” isn’t an inaccurate description of Moore’s contributions to public life. But it also doesn’t provide enough light or heat.


President Trump told reporters he is “not happy” about reports that Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price used taxpayer-funded private planes, and said “we’ll see” about firing him. In Indiana, Trump laid out his vision for tax reform that includes a range of tax cuts for individuals and businesses. Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rosselló said 97 percent of Puerto Ricans are without power, and about half still don’t have running water, one week after Hurricane Maria struck the U.S. territory. House Republicans proposed a plan to provide $10 billion for Trump’s border wall. And the Trump administration announced it will slash the number of refugees admitted into the United States next year to 45,000.
Who Needs Trump?: Roy Moore’s victory in Alabama’s Senate primary demonstrates that Trumpist candidates don’t necessarily need an endorsement from Trump to win. (Rosie Gray)
One-Trick Party: Republicans are using the same party-line approach to pass tax reform that they used in their failed attempts to pass health-care repeal. Why? (Russell Berman)
The Racism of Bankruptcy: An analysis from ProPublica shows that African Americans are less likely to be approved for bankruptcy than their white counterparts. (Paul Kiel)
Trump’s ‘Dark Angel’: Newsmax CEO Chris Ruddy and Breitbart chairman Steve Bannon draw two conflicting pictures of the president and his priorities. (Elaine Godfrey)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

The 10 Commandments Judge: Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore has long read the Bible in controversial ways. Find out how those readings might inform the way he would legislate. (Rachel Chason, The Washington Post)
‘A Regulatory Mutiny’: In keeping with a long history of environmental activism, California has implemented the toughest restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the country—even when those regulations are at odds with federal government and industry standards. (Hiroko Tabuchi, The New York Times)
Government Geezers: Federal workers are significantly older than the U.S. workforce overall: a symptom, experts say, of Washington’s ineffective hiring system. (Danny Vinik, Politico)
‘What Puerto Rico Needs’: President Trump isn’t the only one to blame for the handling of Hurricane Maria’s devastation in Puerto Rico, writes James Carroll: “Mainland American journalists have just not found the fate of Puerto Ricans to be all that compelling.” (The New Yorker)
A War of Words: Is President Trump’s aggressive rhetoric toward North Korea likely to push the country to launch an attack? No, says David French—at least, not yet. (National Review)
What to Know About Puerto Rico: Though nearly half of Americans don’t know it, Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens. Here’s what else you should know about the U.S. territory. (Ryan Struyk and Will Mullery, CNN)
During a rally in Alabama last Friday, President Trump blasted NFL players who knelt during the national anthem. Trump’s remarks fueled widespread protests that played out on the sidelines over the weekend. Now, Trump is calling for football fans to boycott the NFL for “disrespecting our Flag & Country.”
Do you agree or disagree with the president’s position? Why or why not?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Lena Felton (@lenakfelton), Taylor Hosking (@Taylor_Hosking), and Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


Chris Ruddy, the CEO of Newsmax, considers Steve Bannon a bad influence on his friend President Trump. As Ruddy described it on Wednesday, the former White House chief strategist “has been a dark angel around the president” who inspires Trump’s more hard-right policies.
That’s roughly the opposite of Bannon’s own assessment of White House dynamics. He continues to insist it’s West Wing “globalists” who are corrupting the president’s true agenda—which just so happens to align with his. The two arguments illustrate the conflicting perceptions of Trump, and of his priorities.
Not only is Bannon Ruddy’s ideological rival, but he’s a business competitor, too: After his stint at the White House, Bannon returned to running Breitbart News—a site Ruddy characterized on Wednesday as mere political propaganda. Ruddy has known Trump for the past 20 years, and his own media organization, like Breitbart, played a major role in Trump’s ascent. As my colleague Rosie Gray reported earlier this year, Newsmax was one of Trump’s earliest media promoters and helped refine his political image. The Trump campaign also used Newsmax’s email list to raise some $800,000.
Though Ruddy had mentioned Trump’s “darker angels” before, until Wednesday, he hadn’t named any of them. Speaking at the Washington Ideas Forum, sponsored by the Aspen Institute and The Atlantic, Ruddy described his read on the president’s politics and how it differs from the nationalism with which Trump is typically associated. “He’s not ideological,” Ruddy told my colleague Steve Clemons, dispelling what he sees as a major myth about the president. “He’s a pragmatist and a centrist.”
Where Bannon feeds Trump’s more hardline, nationalistic urges, Ruddy said Trump’s daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared Kushner keep Trump on the straight and narrow. “They are not only loyal to him, but they’re people that I think could be strong influences for [Trump] to have that more bipartisan approach.” Ruddy suggested that it was Trump’s work with Democrats Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi to strike a budget deal early in September that helped lift his dismally low poll numbers. (There’s reason to doubt Jared and Ivanka’s moderating power; they didn’t move him to the center on issues like climate change or trans rights.)
Bannon has argued that his take-no-prisoners nationalism is Trump’s true ideology. After he was pushed out of the White House in August, Bannon returned to Breitbart, where he says staffers will continue defending Trump and Trumpism. Just this week, he took credit for Roy Moore’s defeat of incumbent Luther Strange in Alabama’s Republican Senate primary. Moore has recently been characterized as a Trumpian figure, and Bannon eagerly backed his insurgency, using the race to position himself against establishment figures like Majority Leader Mitch McConnell who spent millions to keep Strange in office.
“Mitch McConnell and this permanent political class is the most corrupt and incompetent group of individuals in this country,” Bannon said at a rally on Monday. “Your day of reckoning is coming.” After Moore’s victory, one article posted on Breitbart declared that “Bannon and Breitbart are no longer just the most hated names inside the Beltway. Now they’re also the most feared.”
Bannon has explained away the fact that Trump himself backed Strange. He told Fox News’s Sean Hannity on Monday that Trump simply “got the wrong information.” He called Moore “the guy that’s going to represent Donald Trump and fight the establishment.”
The question is whether Bannon or Ruddy is right about the president’s underlying ideology, or indeed, whether he has any consistent ideology at all. Ruddy regularly speaks to the president, but Bannon and Trump are also reportedly still in frequent contact.
And the past few days haven’t made the picture any clearer. Trump’s endorsement of Strange reportedly came at Kushner’s urging. But at a campaign rally for Strange on Friday, the president admitted publicly that he “might have made a mistake,” and he promised to campaign “like hell” for Moore if he won. And within hours of Strange’s concession, Trump began deleting tweets he’d sent to show his support.


Former Judge Roy Moore is the Republican candidate for Senate in the state of Alabama, having defeated his rival, Luther Strange, whom President Trump was supporting. “ALABAMA, get out and vote for Luther Strange,” Trump had declared in one tweet, “he has proven to me that he will never let you down!” He later added, “Luther Strange has been shooting up in the Alabama polls since my endorsement. Finish the job––vote today for ‘Big Luther.’” In a third Tweet he labeled the candidate "tough on crime & border.” But I can’t embed any of those missives.
They were deleted.
“It is unclear why the president chose to delete the tweets he did,” The New York Times writes. But one motive makes more sense than any others: the tweets were impotent, Alabama voters didn’t listen to them, and they make Trump look like a weak loser. And now it is harder for Twitter users to resurface the evidence going forward, heading into a midterm election cycle in which Trump may have many candidate preferences, and rivals may fear him a bit less based on his inability to sway voters.
Those are typical enough impulses for a politician.
If they suggest anything extraordinary, it is that while Trump is demonstrably willing to delete tweets he views as inconvenient or embarrassing, he has left most of his personal archive intact, though it is filled with juvenile invective; petty feuds; and so many messages that cast Trump in a negative light, when viewed alongside his future words or actions as president, that many Twitter users have taken to resurfacing the older messages and sharing them with the quip, “there’s a tweet for everything.”
Others have taken to labeling him #Nostratrumpus.
In the past, Trump has repeatedly shown shameless ambivalence about that which would mortify a typical human, paired with an obsession with appearing strong and maintaining a reputation as a winner. That he’d leave up nearly all of his discreditable tweets, but delete the ones that proved impotent and provided evidence for the proposition that he is a loser, is consistent with the man Americans have come to know.


Tom Price, the secretary of health and human services, has garnered widespread condemnation for his use of taxpayer-funded charter jets, and on Wednesday he gained another noisy critic: his boss.
“I was looking into it and I will look into it,” President Trump said of Price’s travel. “I will tell you personally, I’m not happy about it. I am not happy about it, and I’m going to look at it. I let him know it.”
Trump declined to say whether he had confidence in Price. Asked whether he’d fire the Cabinet member, replied, “We’ll see.”
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
Price is only the latest member of the Trump administration to earn the president’s ire, and the record is ambiguous on how such things turn out. Trump or White House spokespeople at various times expressed displeasure or declined to assert presidential confidence in Michael Flynn, Reince Priebus, and Steve Bannon, all of whom were later pushed out. But Trump also waged a weeks-long mudslinging campaign against Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who remains in place.
Although Trump’s willingness to publicly criticize his aides is unusual in a president, it’s not surprising he would be annoyed at the Price scandal, which not only offers a black eye to the administration but seems a prime example of just the sort of swampy behavior Trump vowed to drain out of Washington.
As Politico first reported last week, Price, a physician and former member of Congress from Georgia, has racked up unprecedented spending on private flights. Price took at least 24 private flights between May and September, with an estimated tab of more than $300,000 billed to taxpayers. Price defended the flights as being business-related, and HHS cited a case where he missed an event because his commercial flight did not take off. But as Politico noted, that excuse was dubious, since no flights were able to leave the Washington area. Price was bound for a conference at a Ritz-Carlton in Southern California.
Under pressure, Price said he would cease the private flights until a review was completed and acknowledged, “The optics in some of this don’t look good.”
He was right, and the story became even more damaging Wednesday, after Politico notched its latest scoop: Though Price said all his travel was business-related, in one case he used a private jet to fly to an exclusive Georgia island resort where he owns a home. He spoke at a conference the next day, justifying the journey as a business trip, but he has reportedly attended the conference for years. In another case, he toured a friend’s medical facility and had lunch with his son in Nashvillle on a taxypayer-funded private flight.
Flying privately broke both with precedent and Price’s own past views. HHS secretaries during Barack Obama’s term flew commercial. As a congressman in 2010, Price was critical of then-House Speaker Nancy Pelosi using private planes to fly around the country, including trips to her home state of California.
This is not the first time Price’s ethics have been subject to criticism. He was confirmed to his post in February after a bruising hearing process, in which Democrats noted that Price had traded shares in medical companies whose share prices were affected by his own actions in Congress. In one case, Price made at least $225,000 on an investment in an Australian biotech company in which he was offered an exclusive chance to invest.
Nor is he the first Trump Cabinet secretary whose expenditures have come under fire. An inspector general is investigating a flight that Steve Mnuchin, the secretary of the treasury, took to Kentucky in August with his wife, Louise Linton. The trip became well-known when Linton posted an Instagram of herself alighting a government plane and hashtagged her expensive clothing, leading to a condescending exchange with a commenter Linton later apologized for. Amidst various official business, Mnuchin and Linton viewed the solar eclipse from Fort Knox. Mnuchin also requested the use of a private jet for his honeymoon, but he said the request was simply so that he could have secure communications. The Treasury withdrew the request “after a secure communications option was identified during the secretary’s extended travel.”
Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has also made frequent use of military jets and private travel, including travel overseas and to and from his home state of Oklahoma, sticking taxpayers with thousands in bills over the cost of commercial travel. On Tuesday, The Washington Post reported that the EPA is spending $25,000 to build a secure, soundproof phone booth for Pruitt, who has developed an extremely adversarial relationship with many employees at his agency, and who has enjoyed close ties with the industries he regulates.
Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos has also used private jets for work trips, but DeVos, who is independently wealthy, has paid the tab.
Trump’s refusal to voice confidence in Price, and his implication that he is considering whether to fire Price, puts the secretary in a deeply uncomfortable and precarious position. It’s seldom clear how much Trump is speaking out of real conviction and how much he is speaking off the cuff. Already tainted by his earlier scandals, however, Price now faces a controversy that is perhaps more quotidian than many that the Trump administration has faced, but is easily understood by voters as an example of government officials living high on the hog on the taxpayer’s dime, in an administration that promised to end that sort of behavior.
Yet Sessions’s survival as attorney general offers Price at least some hope. Trump’s public attacks on Sessions went past anything seen in politics since President Andrew Johnson sought to fire Edwin Stanton in 1867. In tweets, the president criticized Sessions for a “VERY weak position” and demanded to know why he was not investigating Hillary Clinton. He told interviewers that he regretted appointing Sessions. Trump also dressed Sessions down privately after the appointment of Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating the Trump campaign’s possible involvement in a Russian scheme to tilt the 2016 election in Trump’s favor. Sessions, however, has hung on, and continues to move on his major priorities for the Justice Department.
What the Price, Mnuchin, and Pruitt examples share is that in each case, the principals seem to be taking their cues from the president himself, who has made his name a byword for opulence, and for whom travel on a private jet was a linchpin of life even before he entered the White House. But Trump was paying for that travel himself as a candidate, and now that he’s president, Air Force One is a crucial part of presidential travel. The secretaries are acting as though they have the same rights and privileges of the president, which they do not.
Moreover, as I wrote earlier this week, they are part of a pattern of people around Trump acting as though they are as immune to the normal rules of politics as the president appears to be. What they keep discovering is that not only do the rules apply to them, but emulating Trump too closely might lead him to sack you.


The debt ceiling is one of those classic Washington issues: Not many people understand it. (The concept isn’t complicated, just boring.) And most of the time, no one gives a flying frog about it—including Congress. (Pondering long-term debt tends to mess with members’ spending and/or tax-cutting plans.)
But every so often, the U.S. Treasury hits its congressionally set borrowing limit, compelling lawmakers to raise that limit lest the nation default on its obligations, which would send America’s credit rating down the toilet and potentially spark a global financial meltdown.
And just like that, the debt ceiling becomes Beyoncé-hot, with everyone and their grandma expressing passionately held views about what must be done about it. Or not done. Or done and then redone.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
Currently, Congress is in one of those waiting-to-redo periods. Earlier this month, to Republicans’ dismay, Donald Trump hopped into bed with Hill Democrats, embracing a deal to extend the debt-ceiling a mere three months. This has set up lawmakers for a high-stakes, highly charged showdown come December—making the holiday season super exciting for members already jittery about next year’s midterms.
Even more ominous for Republicans, while kicking it with his new pals “Chuck and Nancy,” Trump expressed an openness to repealing the debt ceiling altogether. Minority Leader Chuck Schumer was all in favor of exploring the possibilities. Hill Democrats promptly seized the moment to stir up a little legislative mischief.
On September 19, Senator Brian Schatz of Hawaii introduced a bill to kill the debt ceiling. “Paying our debts should be an automatic act, not a politicized weapon used for leverage,” he said in a statement. “It’s clear that the debt ceiling is not about fiscal responsibility, but about unnecessary brinksmanship.”
Schatz’s co-sponsors offered similar assessments. “Debt-limit showdowns have become far too routine, and it’s now considered almost normal to threaten default,” said Delaware Senator Chris Coons.
Colorado’s Michael Bennet, meanwhile, cheered: “This is an opportunity for Republicans and Democrats to work together to prevent manufactured crises and lift the threat of default off our economy for good.”
This, of course, is precisely why leadership has no intention of nixing the debt ceiling. Manufactured crises and political grandstanding have become central to modern (non-)governance. As House Speaker Paul Ryan said on Fox News recently:
As ugly and uncomfortable as the debt limit is—can become—I’ve found it to be a useful tool as a check on fiscal policy to help us get smaller government, to help us get some good fiscal conservative policy done. So it’s something that we have found is a good speed bump in the road to big government that we want to use to actually, you know, get good policy done.
As for Mitch McConnell, word around the Hill is that the Senate majority leader personally isn’t much of a debt-ceiling fan. But when asked about repeal, he retreats into cautious legispeak about the political realities: “Getting Congress to give up a tool like that would probably be quite a challenging undertaking,” he observed at a September 12 press conference. “My assumption is that the debt ceiling will continue.”
Democrats are not naïve. They acknowledge that Schatz’s bill is unlikely to move as-is any time soon—if ever. Even so, they’re hoping to accomplish a couple of things with it.
For starters, a Democratic Senate aide told me, they want “to remind everyone that this is a self-inflicted wound” and get people comfortable talking about the possibility of repeal so it’s not considered some sort of “third rail.” Managing the debt does not need to be this way, the aide stressed.  
(Repeal fans point out that the United States is one of only two nations with a statutory debt ceiling. The other is Denmark, which has the good sense to set its limit so high that it can basically be ignored.)
Admittedly, backing a straight-up repeal could be politically untenable for Republicans. (These days, any vote that can be spun as pro-government risks getting one denounced as a RINO and primaried from the right.) But, as the Democratic aide noted, there are ways to tinker with the system to “take away the politically toxic moment of having to vote to increase the debt limit.”
Just three years ago, in fact, frustrated House Republicans toyed with the idea of resurrecting the Gephardt Rule (named for its author, former Representative Richard Gephardt). Under this rule, raising the debt ceiling did not require a separate vote by the House; instead, when a budget resolution was passed, the debt limit was deemed “automatically engrossed” to accommodate new spending levels. As Gephardt then noted, this put debt discussion “where it legitimately and logically belongs. That is in the context of when we vote for the spending that creates the need to change the debt ceiling.”
The Gephardt rule was used off and on, with occasional tweaks and suspensions, from 1980 until its repeal in 2011. Whether or not it could be revived (as has occurred in the past), Hill folks point to it as proof that alternatives to the current freakshow are possible.  
This new bill, a senior Democratic aide told me, is “starting the conversation about how to do it if we are able to do it in December.”
Certainly this is not the first time lawmakers have toyed with repeal. In 2013, a handful of House Democrats introduced legislation to do away with the debt ceiling, making all the same noises about how the vote had been “weaponized” for political purposes. That effort went exactly nowhere.
But now Donald Trump has Democrats raring to revisit the issue.
“It’s a very different situation when you have a president willing to go out and say things like, “Yeah, let’s get rid of it,” said a Senate Democratic staffer.
If the December debt-ceiling negotiations get hairy, said the staffer, who’s to say Trump won’t make another impromptu pact with the minority? “The president has shown a willingness on big things to make a deal with Chuck and Nancy,” the staffer reasoned. “Something could happen between the White House and congressional leadership, and Trump just goes, ‘Screw it, yeah, I’ll do that!’”
Unlikely? Sure. But in these topsy-turvy political times, it pays to be prepared, say Democrats. “Let’s say there’s an off chance that, in some must-pass package, a debt-ceiling repeal can be part of it,” said the staffer. “You’re much better off having legislative language already in the can.”
At the very least, Democrats want to be on record as trying to address what has become a high-profile sign of congressional dysfunction. That way, if things blow up in December, they can throw even more blame at Republicans. “As with a lot of things in Congress, bills can be markers,” said the staffer. “This is one step in the weird way that Washington works to say that we’re starting to take it seriously.”
Heck, even if all of this goes nowhere, Schatz’s bill, and any discussion stemming from it, is an annoying reminder to Republicans that their president publicly sided with opposition leaders on this issue.
That has to make Chuck and Nancy smile just a little.


With the collapse of their latest plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act, Republicans have once again acknowledged what has been obvious for several months: They do not have a Senate majority large enough to reshape the nation’s health-insurance system.
They are betting, however, that it’s big enough to rewrite the tax code.
Unwilling to make concessions to Democrats, GOP leaders have pursued a legislative strategy designed to cut them out entirely, using a procedural tool known as budget reconciliation that allows them to circumvent the 60-vote threshold to defeat a filibuster. But that process requires Republicans to marshall 50 out of their 52 votes in the Senate—a near-unanimity they were repeatedly unable to achieve in repealing and replacing Obamacare.
“There are 50 votes for the substance. There are not 50 votes for the process,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina told reporters on Tuesday, after Republicans called off a vote on the repeal bill he and Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana wrote. The GOP was facing a September 30 deadline to act, since the reconciliation procedure expires at the end of the fiscal year. Republicans like Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska had balked at the party’s headlong, partisan rush toward repeal. They implored Republicans to reach out to Democrats, and to pursue a “regular order” process that would include multiple hearings, committee votes, and opportunities for amendments.
The Republican Majority in Congress Is an Illusion
Graham said Republicans would now heed those calls and put his and Cassidy’s proposal through a more rigorous process in the hopes of reviving it sometime in 2018. “We can fix the process, and we can improve the substance,” he said. “So that’s why I’m optimistic.”
First, though, Republicans are swiftly moving on to tax reform, where they plan to use the same reconciliation process that failed them on health care. They will have the option of starting reconciliation anew once the new fiscal year begins in October, and their determination to use the procedure for tax reform was a key reason why they wanted to pass Obamacare repeal by September 30. “It wouldn’t be my first preference,” Senator John Kennedy of Louisiana told me about the decision. “But I don’t think the Democrats are interested in working with us.”
Democrats have insisted otherwise. They’ve told Republicans that while they were not going to help them repeal their signature legislative achievement of the last decade, they were willing to work on tax reform if the GOP was serious about targeting the benefits to the middle class instead of the wealthy, and if their plan would not add to the deficit. Republicans, however, don’t want to be boxed in on either demand. And the plan President Trump and congressional leaders will unveil on Wednesday is expected both to spike the deficit and cut taxes for top earners.
So the GOP will plow ahead on a process that will force them, once again, to reconcile the considerable ideological gap between more moderate senators like Murkowski and Susan Collins of Maine on one end and Ted Cruz of Texas, Rand Paul of Kentucky, and Mike Lee of Utah on the other. “There’s no question that there is certainly comfort in margins, and we don’t have margins for error,” Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the third-ranking Republican, told me on Tuesday. “So each individual senator is very empowered when it comes to a big issue like this, and as we’ve seen a couple times, it’s very easy to take a big bill like this down.”
Still, Thune suggested Republicans realistically had no other choice. “I don’t know how you do it without reconciliation, because then you’d have to get 60 votes,” he said.
Inside the Capitol on Tuesday, the demise of the Graham-Cassidy plan brought little of the shock or dismay that followed the previous failures of Obamacare repeal bills in the House and Senate. Republicans have grown accustomed to the health-care slog, and if anything, they were energized by how close they came to succeeding on a bill that few had seriously considered until a week ago. Where lawmakers once saw September 30 as a firm deadline, they now have begun to consider the possibility of using health care for one of the two remaining opportunities for reconciliation they’ll have before the 2018 congressional elections. “We need to keep working until we get it done,” Cruz told reporters. “I think we should use whatever procedural vehicle is necessary, and we should pass it the instant we have the votes to pass it.”
Yet the failure on health care has added exponentially to the urgency Republicans feel on tax reform. Lawmakers have been warning for weeks that their majority in the House may rest on its success—a rallying cry that party leaders reinforced in a GOP conference meeting on Tuesday morning. “The message today is we have to get tax reform done,” Representative Chris Collins of New York said afterward. If tax reform meets the same fate as Obamacare repeal, Kennedy said, “I think the American people are going to lose confidence in us, and you know what, I will, too.”
The GOP approach to bipartisanship on taxes is the same as it was on health care—hope for Democratic votes, but don’t plan on having them. Republicans genuinely believe the issue will attract Democrats in a way that health care did not. “Health care was more emotional, because it was called the repeal of Obamacare. This is different,” Collins argued. They may be right. Democrats can’t argue that tax cuts will rip away health insurance from millions, threatening lives and livelihoods. And a few of the vulnerable Senate Democrats who Republicans hoped would side with them on health care—including Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, Joe Manchin of West Virginia, and Joe Donnelly of Indiana—have spoken more positively about working with Trump on taxes.
But Republicans first are likely to have a tough enough time wrangling votes on their own side. Tax reform is a two-step process: In order to use reconciliation and lock in the 51-vote Senate threshold, the GOP must first pass a party-line budget through both chambers establishing the parameters for legislation. Conservatives have already held up the budget in the House, and it’s not yet clear whether McConnell has the votes in the Senate. Only then can Republicans write the actual bill, which will have to overcome an avalanche of lobbying from business interests seeking to protect industry tax breaks.
It appears that GOP leaders have learned at least one lesson from the Obamacare debacle. Senators said McConnell pledged that tax legislation would go through committee and receive hearings, unlike the health-care bills. They hope that will assuage the process concerns of McCain and others. But the plan for hearings might not be enough to compensate for a tax plan that has been written by and for Republicans, and will thus require the unified support of a majority that, as on health care, might not be large enough to pass it.


MONTGOMERY, Ala.—Judge Roy Moore’s victory in the Alabama Senate primary came in the face of opposition from millions of dollars in Republican establishment money and the president himself. And that means there will be more insurgent candidates like him in the 2018 midterm cycle.
Though Moore didn’t have $10 million from a super PAC connected to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and a rally with President Trump like his opponent Luther Strange, he had a loyal following in Alabama and the vehement backing of the political machine controlled by Steve Bannon, the former White House chief strategist who has returned to the helm of Breitbart News after leaving the White House in August. Over the past few weeks, Breitbart became laser-focused on the Alabama race, deploying several staffers here. Bannon himself came to Alabama for a rally on Monday night, where he made a rare public speech casting the race as the beginning of a “reckoning” against establishment figures like Karl Rove and Ward Baker. Bannon was careful, however, not to publicly criticize Trump.
Moore also benefited from favorable internal dynamics in Alabama, where he has a devoted base, has been a known quantity for years, and which formed the launching pad for his national notoriety as the “10 Commandments Judge” because of his battle to keep a monument to the 10 Commandments at the state’s supreme court. He has also long been a supporter of Trump-like positions even before Trump, such as opposing Muslim congressman Keith Ellison’s using a Koran to be sworn in, and questioning where Barack Obama was born.
Moore voters were suspicious of former state attorney general Strange’s appointment to fill Jeff Sessions’s seat by former Governor Robert Bentley, who was under investigation by Strange’s office. But the race has clear national implications. Moore pulling it off in Alabama is likely to inspire would-be populist primary challengers in 2018, a mission dear to Bannon’s heart. The ultimate target is McConnell, who made the perfect foil in Alabama as an avatar of the Washington “swamp,” the Trumpist term for what they see as a corrupt political establishment. And Alabama indicates that this can be done independently of any help from Trump; that Trumpism doesn’t necessarily take its cues from Trump alone.
McConnell had, from any angle, a bad day. Apart from Moore’s win, Senator Bob Corker announced that he was retiring. Corker had been squarely in Breitbart’s crosshairs, seen as overly critical of Trump and too establishment-friendly, and retiring saves him from a potentially ugly primary battle. Corker announced the move before the Alabama results came in, but his retirement is of a piece with what’s happening in this state and in the party. On its site, Breitbart displayed the news prominently, casting it as a “victory.” “ESTABLISHMENT REPUBLICAN DODGES 2018 PRIMARY,” the headline read in big red letters. “VICTORY BEGETS VICTORY.”
The Senate Leadership Fund, the super PAC tied to McConnell that spent nearly $10 million to support Strange, conceded the loss in Alabama even before the Associated Press. “While we were honored to have fought hard for Big Luther, Judge Roy Moore won this nomination fair and square and he has our support, as it is vital that we keep this seat in Republican hands,” the statement attributed to Senate Leadership Fund President Steven Law read.
Trump also didn’t take long to tweet in support of Moore. “Congratulations to Roy Moore on his Republican Primary win in Alabama. Luther Strange started way back & ran a good race. Roy, WIN in Dec!” he wrote. According to ProPublica’s Politwoops project, Trump also deleted several tweets he had sent in support of Strange.
During his rally in support of Strange on Friday, Trump also promised to campaign for Moore if Moore won, and appeared publicly uncomfortable with his Strange endorsement. He reportedly told a dinner of conservative activists on Monday night that he thought Moore would lose.
Primary challengers like Kelli Ward and Danny Tarkanian have emerged in Arizona and Nevada, respectively, this year to take on Trump-skeptical senators Jeff Flake and Dean Heller.
“The floodgates are now wide open for 2018,” said Andy Surabian, senior adviser to Great America Alliance, a Bannon-allied group that backed Moore. The group hosted a pro-Moore rally last week attended by Sarah Palin and Sebastian Gorka. “The anti-establishment fervor that elected President Trump and now has elected Judge Moore will only grow larger. ​​”
And the Alabama results may also push Chris McDaniel, who unsuccessfully ran against Mississippi Senator Thad Cochran in 2014, to run again.
“It certainly plays a role,” McDaniel told reporters when asked about this at the Monday night rally Bannon attended in support of Moore. “We’re very comfortable in our position right now. We know that this movement in large part started in Mississippi in 2014.”
“We’re here to cheer on our friend Roy Moore and then begin to prepare possibly for a run in ‘18,” he said. McDaniel said he was also considering running for lieutenant governor in 2019.
Moore held his election night party at the RSA Activity Center in downtown Montgomery. Dinner and red, white, and blue cupcakes were served, though no alcohol. A couple hundred Moore supporters turned out to cheer him on. Bannon was backstage with Moore before the race was called.
Bannon, wearing his signature green jacket, took the stage before Moore’s acceptance speech. He explicitly cast Corker’s retirement as a consequence of Moore’s win.
“You all remember we talked last night about starting a revolution with Judge Moore’s victory?” Bannon said. “Well Senator Corker stepped down today and he’s not going to run for reelection.”
Bannon spoke of more candidates “who follow the model of Judge Moore and do not need to raise money from elites, fat cats, crony capitalists in Washington D.C. and New York City.”
“Who’s sovereign, the people or the money?” Bannon asked the crowd. “Alabama answered today: the people.”
Speaking directly after Bannon, Moore emphasized his support for Trump.
“Don’t let anybody in the press think that because [Trump] supported my opponent that I do not support him," Moore said.
Speaking to reporters afterwards, Moore said he agreed with Bannon that his win would open the door to more primary candidates in 2018.
“I agree with that comment,” he said. “I think Mr. Bannon knows what’s coming and I think he has a good vision for it.”
Asked if he would have just as easily won without the help of Breitbart and Bannon, Moore said he appreciated their support, but “I have a strong support base in Alabama, they know me, they know what I stand for.”


Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced that the chamber will not vote on the Graham-Cassidy health-care bill. Voters in Alabama head to the polls to cast their ballots in the state’s Senate Republican primary. President Trump said he will visit Puerto Rico next Tuesday to assess the damage left behind by Hurricane Maria. During an address at Georgetown University Law Center, Sessions said that “freedom of thought and speech on the American campus are under attack,” as he criticized NFL players for kneeling in protest during the National Anthem. Republican Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee said he will not run for reelection in 2018.
Roy’s Boys: On Monday night, several stars of the Breitbart universe, including former White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon and British politician Nigel Farage, rallied in support of Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore. (Rosie Gray)
‘A Nation of Snowflakes’: People across the political spectrum believe that the American left is waging war on free speech. But the real threat to the First Amendment comes from the state. (Adam Serwer)
Island in Darkness: Since Hurricane Maria knocked out most of Puerto Rico’s above-ground cable and phone infrastructure, residents have scrambled to find other ways to connect with their relatives on the mainland. (Vann R. Newkirk II)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Emailgate: An email prankster pretending to be President Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, reportedly emailed back and forth with Kushner’s lawyer about “some correspondence on my private email...featuring adult content.” (Natasha Bertrand, Business Insider)
‘I Don’t Get Nervous’: New York’s Olivia Nuzzi chatted with Roger Stone, a member of President Trump’s inner circle, at the Trump International Hotel on the eve of his testimony before the House Intelligence Committee. “Tomorrow is really easy,” Stone said. “All I have to do is show up and tell the truth.”
Conflicted: The NFL protests have alienated many loyal fans of the Pittsburgh Steelers, some of whom say they’ll stop attending games: “That’s what happens when you lose respect and trust in something,” said one fan. (Salena Zito, New York Post)
Lawyered Up: Former White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer has reportedly hired criminal defense attorney Chris Mead to handle issues related to Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation. (Betsy Woodruff, Daily Beast)
Joe Biden’s Platform: The former vice president’s recent criticism of the policies of both Bernie Sanders and Steve Bannon sets him up to be the anti-populist candidate in 2020. (Bill Scher, Politico)
Taxing Times: Republicans are expected to reveal a new tax framework for the country on Wednesday. Here’s what they plan to propose. (Damian Paletta and Mike DeBonis, The Washington Post)
Who and Why: The Trump administration’s revised travel ban restricts travel from eight countries. Here are the countries targeted by the ban—and why they’re on the list. (Darla Cameron, The Washington Post)
Come Again?: A Morning Consult poll found that nearly half of Americans don’t know that people born in Puerto Rico are U.S. citizens. (Kyle Dropp and Brendan Nyhan, The New York Times)
During a rally in Alabama last Friday, President Trump blasted NFL players who knelt during the national anthem. Trump’s remarks fueled widespread protests that played out on the sidelines over the weekend. Now, Trump is calling for football fans to boycott the NFL for “disrespecting our Flag & Country.”
Do you agree or disagree with the president’s position? Why or why not?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


Former judge Roy Moore won the Republican nomination on Tuesday evening in the Alabama special election to fill the Senate seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, defeating the Trump-endorsed former state attorney general Luther Strange.
Moore is an insurgent candidate who was removed from the Alabama Supreme Court in 2003 after refusing to move a monument to the Ten Commandments from the state judicial building.
The Associate Press called the race for Moore just before 9:30 p.m. EDT. Decision Desk HQ projected earlier in the night that Moore would win.
Moore’s opponent, Luther Strange, aside from President Trump’s endorsement, had benefited from millions of dollars in spending from political groups aligned with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. Neither were sufficient to put him over the top.

The outcome isn’t entirely surprising, however. In the run-up to the race, Strange, who was temporarily appointed to the Senate seat in February by then-Alabama Governor Robert Bentley, had trailed in the polls, lagging behind his challenger.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
Earlier on Tuesday, Trump had tweeted: “ALABAMA, get out and vote for Luther Strange.” The president seemed acutely aware that his ability to play kingmaker was on the line. Trump claimed on Tuesday that “Strange has been shooting up in the Alabama polls since my endorsement,” though it is unclear what polls he was referring to.
The RealClearPolitics average showed Moore in the lead before the race results were in, and ahead in all four of the most recent polls. Trump first endorsed Strange in August ahead of the initial primary race. But as Geoffrey Skelley of the University of Virginia Center for Politics noted in an email, “Strange only won 33 percent in the primary, one of the worst incumbent primary performances ever.” Moore won roughly 40 percent of the vote in that first round contest.
The runoff election for the Republican primary took place on Tuesday after none of the GOP candidates won a majority of the vote in the August primary.
Adding a high-profile twist to the race is the fact that former White House chief strategist and Breitbart chairman Steve Bannon decided to get involved, showing up to headline a rally in support of Moore on Monday after Trump visited the state in support of Strange the week before. A Breitbart article titled “25 Key Conservative Endorsements of Judge Roy Moore in Alabama Primary,” lists endorsements for Moore ranging from former Republican vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin to failed Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee.
As my colleague Rosie Gray put it: the outcome of the special election primary will help answer the question of “who is more influential with Trump’s base: Trump himself, or the constellation of powerful voices on the right to whom base voters listen and who are supporting Moore?”
Moore’s victory will elevate a highly-controversial figure to a prominent position in American politics. After refusing to remove the Ten Commandments Monument, Moore was suspended from the Alabama Supreme Court in 2016 after attempting to block the federal Supreme Court’s ruling legalizing same-sex marriage. In August, Moore claimed that there are communities in Illinois and Indiana that are “under Sharia law right now” in an interview with Vox, an assertion that PolitiFact found “zero evidence” to substantiate.
A victory for Moore calls into question the power of a presidential endorsement in down-ballot Republican races. And it might make life more difficult for McConnell given that Moore has styled himself as an outsider antagonist to the majority leader on the campaign trail, accusing him of “dirty tricks and schemes,” in one campaign email that called Strange McConnell’s “crony.”
Moore will now advance to the December general election where he will face off against Democratic candidate Doug Jones. Any Democratic candidate is a long shot  in the red state of Alabama, however, and Moore will head into the general election as a heavy favorite to win.


Federal prosecutors filed charges in Manhattan on Tuesday against 10 people, including four basketball coaches at top-tier universities and an Adidas executive, for allegedly exchanging bribes and kickbacks. They’re accused of funneling star players, including high-school prospects they sought to recruit, toward managers and financial advisers who paid them off.
“The picture painted by the charges brought today is not a pretty one: coaches at some of the nation’s top programs soliciting and accepting cash bribes, managers and financial advisers circling blue-chip prospects like coyotes, and employees of one of the world’s largest sportswear companies secretly funneling cash to the families of high-school recruits,” Joon Kim, the acting U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, said at an afternoon press conference.
The Shame of College Sports
The charges were the culmination of a three-year investigation into what Kim called the “dark underbelly of college basketball,” involving figures in some of the nation’s elite programs. Among those charged were Chuck Person, an associate coach at Auburn University and former NBA player, and assistant coaches Lamont Evans of Oklahoma State University, Anthony Bland of the University of Southern California, and Emanuel Richardson of the University of Arizona. Prosecutors also filed charges against Jim Gatto, the director of global sports marketing at Adidas. The other defendants are business managers and financial advisers who allegedly cultivated the coaches to secure a pipeline of future clients.
Unsealed criminal complaints accused the defendants of wide-ranging bribery schemes in which coaches used their outsized influence to sway young athletes’ business decisions. Prosecutors claimed the coaches abused their positions of trust for their own gain.
All of the allegations involve sports agent Christopher Dawkins and his associates, who paid out thousands of dollars to coaches. Person allegedly took almost $100,000 in payments to steer players toward specific financial advisers and business managers, according to one complaint. He allegedly gave $18,500 of the payments to the families of two student-athletes to encourage their cooperation.
After receiving $20,000 from adviser Manish Sood and Dawkins, Evans allegedly vouched for the two men to players and their parents, falsely claiming he’d personally benefited from their services. Bland, who allegedly received at least $13,000 from the pair, told them he could “definitely mold the players and put them in the lap of you guys.”
Sood and Dawkins were also charged. At stake for them and other participants was access to players who could earn millions of dollars throughout their future professional careers. Prosecutors accused Gatto of funneling $150,000 toward a high-school prospect’s family to secure his commitment to an unnamed university sponsored by Adidas. Part of the arrangement included the implicit understanding that the prospect would sign with Adidas when he entered the NBA, thereby providing even more revenue to the company in the future.
According to a complaint, Rashan Michel, a former NBA referee and the owner of an Atlanta-based clothing company that made suits for professional athletes, told a cooperating witness that “the fucking basketball guys [get] way more money than these fucking football guys,” and that “we can get us goddamn 10 basketball players in the next five years and we gonna … have to sit back and do absolutely nothing.” Prosecutors filed bribery- and fraud-related charges for his alleged role in facilitating bribes for Person.
“Month after month, the defendants allegedly exploited the hoop dreams of student-athletes around the country, treating them as little more than opportunities to enrich themselves through bribery and fraud schemes,” Kim said. “The defendants’ alleged criminal conduct not only sullied the spirit of amateur athletics, but showed contempt for the thousands of players and coaches who follow the rules, and play the game the right way.”
No charges were filed against any head coaches or college administrators, and the criminal complaints don’t suggest their active involvement. Indeed, the defendants may have deliberately excluded them from their schemes. In one of the complaints, investigators claim Dawkins said during a wiretapped phone call that partnering with associate coaches is more lucrative because head coaches “ain’t willing to [take bribes] ‘cause they’re making too much money. And it’s too risky.”
At Tuesday’s press conference, William Sweeney, an assistant director at the FBI, said the coaches “created a pay-to-play culture. Today’s arrests should also serve as a warning to those who conduct business this way in the world of college athletics.”
The multibillion-dollar industry of college athletics is well acquainted with corruption and other misconduct scandals. The charges come four months after the NCAA imposed sanctions against the University of Louisville for a controversy within its high-profile basketball program. In June, the organization suspended Louisville head basketball coach Rick Pitino for the first five games of the 2017-18 season and vacated over 100 wins. The penalties came after reports that Andre McGee, the program’s director of basketball operations, paid thousands of dollars to provide strippers and dancers for men’s basketball players, including at their on-campus dorm. Louisville appealed the NCAA’s decision in August.


Puerto Rico is in dire straits. That happens when an island is struck by two major hurricanes in short succession. Most of the island is without electricity. Water, fuel, food, and medicine are scarce across the U.S. territory, and officials there are warning that people are dying for lack of resources. Hospitals are struggling to provide lifesaving care, and one doctor recommended that sick patients simply leave Puerto Rico, as my colleague Olga Khazan reports.
The question is whether the federal government is doing all it can. Puerto Rican Governor Ricardo Rosselló has been doing the rounds of media, pleading for extra assistance from Washington. President Trump, meanwhile, has been subject to criticism that he has been too slow in reacting or paid too little attention to the unfolding disaster. The problem is that getting aid in after a storm always takes a long time, and after a disaster this serious, it’s hard to even get a full sense of what the damage is. (My colleague Vann Newkirk explores the difficulty of getting information from Puerto Rico.)
Disconnected by Disaster—Photos From a Battered Puerto Rico
While Trump’s messaging, and his much greater focus on a feud with NFL players, leaves something to be desired, it won’t be clear whether the federal response has been about as good as could be hoped for in these circumstances or whether it is falling badly short for a few more days.
“If you’re one of the victims, every hour and every day is too long,” said James Lee Witt, who directed the Federal Emergency Management Agency under President Bill Clinton. But Witt said he expects aid to begin dispersing much faster soon: “Over the next few days, you’ll see a turn.”
It may also be that with a few extra days’ perspective, the situation in Puerto Rico will prove even graver than it looks, and the federal response will fall far short of what's necessary. As Trump and Rosselló have both pointed out, the storm is unprecedented for Puerto Rico.
After a hurricane, emergency managers have to both bring resources to the site, and then distribute them to people who need them. In the case of Puerto Rico, both parts of that are challenging. First, its location has slowed the initial response. “We’ve gotten A-pluses on Texas and in Florida, and we will also on Puerto Rico,” Trump said Tuesday. “But the difference is this is an island sitting in the middle of an ocean.” Second, the level of devastation is such that moving fuel, water, and food around the island is challenging.
One of the guiding concepts of disaster relief in recent years is that neighbors are the real first responders. In a large event like a hurricane, there are never enough EMTs, police, firefighters, and medical personnel in a place, and it’s impossible to bring them in immediately. The essential role played by the Cajun Navy and other good samaritans in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey demonstrated both the importance of ordinary citizens and the ways in which governmental response is delayed and limited even when running as designed.
There are some signs that the federal relief effort is starting to achieve its first goal of bringing resources to the scene. In a release Monday, FEMA noted some of what it has deployed: 330 staffers from the Department of Health and Human Services; Army Corps of Engineers staff; EPA officials; and a range of Department of Defense assistance, including helicopters and planes. A depot has been established to gather goods. A FEMA spokeswoman tweeted Tuesday afternoon that the agency had provided 4 million meals, 6 million liters of water, and thousands of tarps and rolls of roof sheeting.
Getting those people where they need to be, and transporting lifesaving supplies from depots to where they’re needed, though, remains difficult. On Morning Joe Tuesday, Rosselló said, “We need more help with people being deployed so that we can get logistical support elsewhere, and we need Congress to take action so that we can have an aid package that is real for the American citizens that live in Puerto Rico.” For example, the governor said that there is fuel in Puerto Rico, but the government has struggled to dispere it to where it’s needed.
Carmen Yulín Cruz, the mayor of San Juan, tweeted Tuesday morning that there were plenty of “boots on the ground,” but they weren’t working at full capacity. On CBS News, she said there were HHS workers who were eager to help, “but couldn’t get marching orders.”
“Somebody has to structure the logistics,” Yulín said.
A string of American officials has traveled to Puerto Rico. FEMA Director Brock Long and White House Homeland-Security Adviser Tom Bossert both arrived on Monday. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a Republican, was also there on Monday and tweeted that the situation was bad:
Returning from #PuertoRico now. Tremendous damage. Potential for serious crisis in areas outside of #SanJuan MUST get power crews in ASAP
Trump announced Tuesday that he would visit Puerto Rico in a week. Aides said he didn’t want to visit too soon, because the island wasn’t yet ready to deal with the rigamarole of a presidential visit. Trump also expanded an existing disaster declaration, extending and increasing what the federal government will pay for.
On Tuesday, Long announced that the hospital ship USNS Comfort would travel to Puerto Rico. Several people, including Hillary Clinton, had argued it could help to alleviate medical problems on the island, although it typically takes five days for that ship to sail once it has received orders. The Department of Defense did not immediately respond to a request for a full listing of its assets on the ground, or about future plans for deployment.
There are plenty of other suggestions for the administration, however. The Washington Post reported that Congress has not received, and does not expect to receive, a new request for disaster-relief funding from the Trump administration until mid-October. But that doesn’t necessarily mean the federal government is stinting on aid. FEMA has money on hand for upfront costs, and there’s no indication that relief is slow because FEMA is short on cash. Congressional appropriations after a disaster offer a strong signal of national support, but they’re unlikely to make a quick difference in conditions on the ground. Besides, Witt said, it takes time to do a damage assessment and estimate the cost, and FEMA has been rightly more focused on bringing in essential aid than performing the requisite surveys.Several members of Congress, led by Representative Nydia Velazquez, a Democrat who was born on Puerto Rico and represents New York, also asked the Department of Homeland Security to waive the Jones Act, which mandates that ships carrying cargo between U.S. ports be U.S.-flagged. The federal government has at times waived the law, most recently in the wake of Hurricane Harvey. But DHS declined the request this time, saying that while the waiver was essential to get enough tankers to the Gulf Coast to provide fuel, what Puerto Rico needs can be carried on barges, of which there are plenty of American-flagged options. (Notably, Velazquez’s group asked that the law be waived for a year, suggesting more than just immediate relief. Puerto Rico and its advocates have long detested the Jones Act for driving up prices on the island.)
Even if the federal government is operating at or near fully capacity in bringing aid, messaging from the White House has not done a good job of communicating that. The president has appeared far more focused on stirring his feud with the NFL and other athletes who have protested racial inequality by kneeling during the National Anthem. When he did weigh in more fully, in a series of tweets Monday night, he made several questionable assertions. Trump tweeted:
Texas & Florida are doing great but Puerto Rico, which was already suffering from broken infrastructure & massive debt, is in deep trouble... It's old electrical grid, which was in terrible shape, was devastated. Much of the Island was destroyed, with billions of dollars owed to Wall Street and the banks which, sadly, must be dealt with. Food, water and medical are top priorities - and doing well.
The same evening, Rosselló was telling MSNBC’s Chris Hayes that only 40 percent of Puerto Rico had drinkable water. Trump’s focus on Puerto Rico’s debt and infrastructure is a little murky. It’s true that years of deferred maintenance, due to lack of funds, made Puerto Rico’s electric grid vulnerable, but it’s unclear how the nation’s debts factor into its immediate recovery. In the long run, those debts will mean that federal assistance is all the more important.
But optics aside, it’s an open question how necessary the president’s focus is to getting Puerto Rico the help it needs. Most of that work is in the hands of other officials, without hands-on presidential involvement.
“I would advise him to focus on the people’s problems that have been affected by these hurricanes and focus on [the NFL] later, but he’s the president and I’m not,” Witt said.
Rosselló, even as he pleads for more assistance, has also praised both Trump and the federal government for their help so far. That may be, in part, because he is conscious of the importance of maintaining good relations in the federal government, given that Puerto Rico’s chances at recovery will require major federal aid. The island is already largely dependent on Washington, with Congress last year placing control of its economic restructuring in the hands of an independent board. On Morning Joe Tuesday, Rosselló repeatedly emphasized the importance of a “flexible” aid package, seeking the opportunity for the territory’s government to spend recovery aid where local authorities believe it is needed, rather than having its use determined from outside.
Getting adequate support in the months and years after a major disaster is a constant battle for stricken areas. There’s a real risk that Puerto Rico, having been beaten and soaked by Maria, could find itself high and dry after the storm. It’s also possible that within a few days, the scale of disaster in Puerto Rico will prove to be even more catastrophic than it immediately appears. At this stage, however, it’s still too early to render a judgment on the federal response.


One week ago, Magdiel Sanchez, a deaf man, was shot and killed in front of his Oklahoma City home by police. Sanchez, who often used a short metal pipe to communicate, waved it in the air after an officer arrived at his home to investigate a hit-and-run incident.
According to a witness’s account, the situation escalated after the officer ordered Sanchez to drop the pipe and he did not comply. Exasperated neighbors shouted that he couldn’t hear the commands. “Don’t kill him, he’s deaf,” one onlooker, a 12-year-old girl, cried out. Within moments, the witness said, a second officer appeared to provide backup, and he quickly discharged his gun. Sanchez was pronounced dead at the scene.
In the days since, the Sanchez case has brought attention to calls from disability-rights advocates to reform police relations with people who are deaf and hard of hearing. Since the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the government has been required to provide “effective communication,” “reasonable accommodation,” and equal access to services for those with disabilities. But almost 30 years later, law enforcement hasn’t always satisfied this mandate. When it comes to the deaf community, officers’ gaps in cultural competency have led to strain and miscommunication—and, at times, the use of deadly force.
“Police compliance with ADA provisions is pretty poor across the board,” said Alex Vitale, a sociology professor at Brooklyn College whose research focuses on community policing. “It’s clearly not a priority for a lot of police leaders.” For the deaf, police compliance with the ADA translates to employing or contracting with qualified American Sign Language interpreters and making available remote interpreting services, among other measures.
It’s difficult to quantify how often deaf Americans are denied services, or how often their interactions with police turn sour. Since 2011, Talila Lewis has led a small band of volunteers in building a national database of deaf inmates and a log of self-reported stories from deaf people who say they’ve experienced police violence, wrongful arrests, and discrimination. Lewis co-founded the advocacy group Helping Educate to Advance the Rights of the Deaf, and is an attorney and visiting professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology in New York.
The log isn’t comprehensive, but it provides illustrative snapshots: 18-year-old Hannah Cohen, who is partially deaf and blind, tackled by Transportation Security Administration agents as she returned home after cancer treatment; Robert Kim, a deaf motorist, tasered by an officer in suburban St. Louis while he was having a diabetic episode on the side of a road; Jonathan Meister, an architect who communicates using ASL, handcuffed and tasered repeatedly after officers thought he was burglarizing a house.
Advocates and academics highlight a foundational problem underlying even mildly negative encounters: “Only a few municipalities have comprehensive training on deaf and hard-of-hearing cultural competency,” said Howard Rosenblum, the chief executive officer of the National Association of the Deaf, the oldest American Deaf civil-rights organization. “The vast majority of law enforcement receive either no training at all or only perfunctory training.”
And these sessions can be the first time officers learn about the ADA. In 2016, two public-health researchers in California evaluated a training workshop on domestic-violence calls involving deaf and hard-of-hearing people. They found that few police knew about the law, “including the right to an interpreter,” said one of them, Alina Engelman, a health-sciences professor at California State University, East Bay.
In some departments, disability-rights training is superseded by instruction in areas deemed more urgent. Seth Stoughton, a law professor at the University of South Carolina whose scholarship focuses on police regulation, served as an officer and trainer in the Tallahassee Police Department for five years. He now trains line officers, investigators, and command staff on officer-civilian interactions and evaluating use-of-force incidents. Stoughton told me that departments often build in limited time for training, and so they prioritize “high liability” areas, such as the use of force, firearms, driving, and first aid.
“Sometimes officers will get a very brief exposure to interacting with people with different disabilities, including hearing impairments,” Stoughton told me via email. But “it’s not something they spend much time learning about.”
This deficit can exacerbate situations where police are already prone to using force. Even if an officer has learned when to use it—and when to hold back—they may not know how to apply those lessons to interactions with deaf people.
What’s more, a one-off session “really doesn’t help unless there’s a reiteration of the training,” said Matthew Dietz, litigation director of the Miami-based Disability Independence Group. Since 2005, uniformed officers in the Miami-Dade Police Department have completed a 40-hour crisis intervention training program, but a department representative told me it doesn’t include instruction on deaf and hard-of-hearing issues. Dietz, who handles cases of police discrimination, said that, like the police Engelman observed, “officers are really not aware of the fact that they’re supposed to get interpreters.”
Eve Hill, the former director of the Justice Department’s Disability Rights Division, noted that deafness is a low-incidence disability. “Police are doing training and then not having an interaction with a deaf person while they remember the training,” Hill said. “People forget.”
Cost can also be a barrier to departments’ ADA compliance. The law’s effective-communication and reasonable-accommodation clauses are unfunded mandates; public and private entities use their own money to fulfill them. “There remain many departments without any real resources to back up their policies, so interpreters and translation equipment aren’t always available,” said Vitale, who also directs the Policing and Social Justice Project at Brooklyn College.
Nonetheless, advocates are skeptical price is a serious factor. “Many terrible incidents happen in departments that have resources, but the officers involved never bothered to access them, even when requested to do so by the deaf person,” Vitale said. “Of course cost is an issue, but often it’s lack of concern or awareness by an officer.”
That’s allegedly the case in Austin, Texas, where the police department contracts with two interpreting agencies, one for business hours and one for nighttime. Amber Farrelly, a criminal-defense attorney in the city who represents deaf clients, alleged officers don’t use them: “I watch these dash-cam tapes all the time. Ninety-eight percent of the time, there’s no interpreter ever called,” Farrelly said. “The thing that just kills me is that they have this already. They have the contract.” (The Austin Police Department did not respond to requests for comment.)
The Justice Department has investigated dozens of police departments for their ADA compliance, often culminating in settlements where cities agree to adopt new policies and practices for interactions with deaf and hard-of-hearing people. “We’ve been seeing steadily problematic interactions between the police and deaf people,” Hill explained.
Most recently, in 2016, the department investigated the Columbia, South Carolina, police department after allegations its officers questioned a deaf person repeatedly over the course of three months without providing an interpreter, despite requests. The resulting agreement held the department to a slate of reforms: aids to facilitate a person’s “usual method of communication,” video phones with interpretation services at all police stations, annual ADA trainings, signs in public areas of precincts to indicate that auxiliary aids and qualified interpreters are available, and a requirement to handcuff deaf people in front of their bodies. It also prohibited officers from using another member of the public, or a minor, as an interpreter.
But isolated settlements are just that—isolated. They can’t compel other entities to adopt similar procedures. “There are thousands and thousands of police departments at all levels all across the United States,” Hill said. “Trying to stay on top of this issue across the entire country is difficult.” It doesn’t help that even as the Justice Department has given individual departments specific steps to follow, it hasn’t incorporated those best practices into its broader legal guidance for police. The regime designed for Columbia “is essentially what DOJ should have in its technical guidance,” Lewis said.
While the Trump administration has not specifically noted how it will handle ADA investigations, Attorney General Jeff Sessions has indicated that he plans to significantly roll back federal oversight of local law-enforcement agencies. The Senate hasn’t yet confirmed Trump’s nominee to lead the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division, which oversees disability discrimination cases.
Rosenblum, who also directs the National Association of the Deaf’s legal-services arm, believes media focus on police has brought increased attention to deaf issues. But “the attention paid to each incident has been fleeting and has not resulted in substantial changes,” he said.
Just over one year before Sanchez’s death in Oklahoma City, 29-year-old Daniel Harris was shot and killed by a North Carolina state trooper, who mistakenly believed the deaf man was reaching for a weapon after a high-speed car chase. Speaking to the Associated Press through an interpreter, his brother, who is also deaf, said he hoped the fatal incident would be a wake-up call to law enforcement. “If they had known [Daniel] was deaf, this wouldn’t have happened,” Sam Harris said late last August. “This is what is going to change the system.”


The American left is waging war on free speech. That’s the consensus from center-left to far right; even Nazis and white supremacists seek to wave the First Amendment like a bloody shirt. But the greatest contemporary threat to free speech comes not from antifa radicals or campus leftists, but from a president prepared to use the power and authority of government to chill or suppress controversial speech, and the political movement that put him in office, and now applauds and extends his efforts.
The most frequently cited examples of the left-wing war on free speech are the protests against right-wing speakers that occur on elite college campuses, some of which have turned violent. New York’s Jonathan Chait has described the protests as a “war on the liberal mind” and the “manifestation of a serious ideological challenge to liberalism—less serious than the threat from the right, but equally necessary to defeat.” Most right-wing critiques fail to make such ideological distinctions, and are far more apocalyptic—some have unironically proposed state laws that define how universities are and are not allowed to govern themselves in the name of defending free speech.
“While politically correct shaming still has great power in deep-blue America, its effect in the rest of the country is to trigger a furious backlash, one characterized less by a desire for dialogue and discourse than by its own rage and scorn,” National Review’s David French recently wrote. “So we’re moving toward two Americas—one that ruthlessly (and occasionally illegally) suppresses dissenting speech and the other that is dangerously close to believing that the opposite of political correctness isn’t a fearless expression of truth but rather the fearless expression of ideas best calculated to enrage your opponents.”
Most of the debates about free speech, however, are not actually concerned with the First Amendment’s protections. As French acknowledges—and he is among the few on the right to do so—what is actually occurring on most college campuses is a conflict between groups over the value of particular ideas, not the censorship of free expression through state power. In any society, ideological and social consensus will lead to some ideas being unacceptable to the majority and consigned to the fringe. The question is which ideas will suffer this fate. Far from portends of an apocalypse, these are conflicts that are to be expected between groups in the polity that have profound differences of opinion over moral values.
The public attention to this conflict has vastly outpaced the attention drawn to actual threats to free speech from the state, which are numerous. And it has also obscured the extent to which some conservatives, as well, are prepared to deploy public humiliation to deprive speakers of their livelihoods or bully them into submission.
At Texas A&M, Tommy Curry, a black professor, was driven from his home with his family after his controversial remarks on violence and race drew the attention of American Conservative columnist Rod Dreher; singling out left-wing college professors is a frequent source of content at Steve Bannon’s Breitbart News. The former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick cannot find employment in the the National Football League after his protests against police brutality. A police union in St. Louis urged members to bombard a local store owner with calls, after he accused some officers of misconduct, one of several recent examples of police unions attempting to intimidate critics. Black Lives Matter activists protesting the lack of accountability in lethal shootings of black men by police are routinely attacked as terrorists.  
It’s hard to understand why making one’s livelihood depend on a refusal to criticize armed agents of the state with the authority to kill would draw less outrage than safe spaces on college campuses. And although these examples of conservative efforts to define the boundaries of public speech are new, the conflict is not.
During the debate over the Iraq War, the Republican chairman of the House Administration committee was so triggered by French opposition to the ill-fated invasion of Iraq that he directed the cafeteria menus to substitute “Freedom Toast” and “Freedom Fries;” his Democratic colleague Barbara Lee, who voted against the war, received boxes of letters calling her un-American, treasonous, and far worse. In the years following that conflict, liberal and left-wing critics of the war were frequently called treasonous; in 2006, President George W. Bush told campaign crowds that “the Democrat approach in Iraq comes down to this: The terrorists win and America loses.”
Neither have some conservatives disdained to use of the power or authority of the state to censor free speech. Republican legislators have proposed “Blue Lives Matter” bills that essentially criminalize peaceful protest; bills that all but outlaw protest itself; and bills that offer some protections to drivers who strike protestors with automobiles. GOP lawmakers have used the state to restrict speech, such as barring doctors from raising abortion or guns with patients, opposition to the construction of Muslim religious buildings, and attempts to stifle anti-Israel activism.
There’s physical assault of a reporter by a Republican candidate in Montana; Attorney General Jeff Sessions’s prosecution and re-prosecution of an activist who laughed at him during his confirmation hearing; his multiple public refusals to rule out prosecuting journalists; the president’s vows to imprison his political rivals; his encouragement of violence against protesters; Trump’s threat to tax Amazon because its owner Jeff Bezos is also the owner of The Washington Post, which has published coverage critical of the president; the White House’s demands that ESPN fire Jemele Hill, a black on-air host who called the president a white supremacist; and Trump’s attempt to chill press criticism by naming the media an “enemy of the people” have all drawn cheers from some conservative commentators.
In this sense, Trump’s views on free speech, exemplified by his threat to cut off federal funding to Berkeley on free-speech grounds, and his later demand that NFL team owners fire players who protest police brutality, perfectly exemplify the strain of conservatism that insists those on the left are sensitive snowflakes who cannot sustain a dissenting view, and that simultaneously angrily demands that the state and society sanction the left for the expression of political views it finds distasteful.
The unpleasant truth is also that free speech absolutism has rarely been a popular position in practice, and certainly not in bygone generations where suppression of radical ideas was seen as a pressing matter of national security. Its preservation in law has always relied on the commitment of American political leadership—and there have been few moments in American history when the occupant of the White House has been less committed.
After Trump called football players protesting police brutality sons of bitches who should be forced to stand for the national anthem at a rally in Alabama, National Review’s Rich Lowry, who previously complained that the left was “feverishly attempting to squash unwelcome speech on college campuses,” praised the president’s “gut level political savvy;” the most withering criticism Lowry could muster of a head of state demanding forced displays of national loyalty from private citizens demanding equal rights was that it was not “necessarily common sense” to do so.
But even if conservative intellectuals were wholly consistent, one lesson of 2016 is that the pulse of the contemporary conservative movement is not to be taken in the high-minded arguments published in National Review, but in the crowds like the one that gathered in Alabama and cheered wildly as the president demanded black men be fired for nonviolent acts of political dissent against the unjustified killing of other black men by agents of the state.
There is no comparable push for the restriction of political expression on the left, and it’s not hard to imagine what that would look like: A demand for European-style hate speech laws and constitutional amendments, some sort of explicit legal defense of anti-fascist violence, legislation to allow the banning of conservative speakers from campuses or to codify campus speech codes into law, none of which a single major Democratic official proposes. Virtually the only thing conservatives can point to even remotely related to speech are attempts to regulate the nigh-unlimited ability of the ultra-wealthy to steer the course of elections and legislative battles to their priorities to the point of legitimized bribery, which is not at issue in the campus free speech battles.
By contrast, the campus threat-to-free-speech story survives in disproportion to its importance because it involves the children of financial and scholarly elites who drive press coverage; because it allows elders to sneer at a younger generation, and because of conservative media outlets which see these stories as politically useful and amplify such stories for their audience. But it also allows conservatives to frame the current argument over free speech as a conflict between people who are tolerant of opposing views and those who attempt to suppress them out of fear and weakness, a frame that elides the extent to which that describes their own movement.
Republicans are for more likely than Democrats for example, according to a recent YouGov poll, to support the silencing or fining of media outlets that publish “biased” stories, a practice that would necessarily involve a government censor (45 percent to 18 percent). A 2017 poll commissioned by the Newseum found that in 2017, “less than 16 percent of self-described Liberals agreed that the First Amendment goes too far in the freedoms it guarantees (15.8 percent) compared to about one-quarter of both Moderates (26.3 percent) and Conservatives (24.6 percent).” Republicans (37 percent) were more than twice as likely than Democrats (14 percent) to agree that “we have gone too far in expanding the right to protest or criticize the government,” according to a Marist poll taken shortly after Charlottesville.
But what about the violent protests at Middlebury and Berkeley? What about Nazi punching? Although support for political violence (particularly against Nazis) may be prevalent on Twitter, it is unpopular in general. Campus violence is rare, but it also hardly stifles conservative speech—more frequently, it backfires, enhancing the stature of conservative speakers, making them martyrs to right-wing audiences, and in some cases helping to sustain careers that could not thrive in the market absent support from wealthy conservative patrons. The irony of campus violence is that more often than not, it acts not as suppression of conservative ideas but as free advertising for them.  
The Nazi-punchers of Antifa remain a fringe—albeit one whose use of organized political violence is decidedly limited and non-lethal compared to the right-wing extremists who have inherited centuries-old traditions of terrorism and murder, and who have received the tacit approval of the president as “very fine people.”
Yet despite the insistence of the Nazi-punchers that their violence poses no threat to free speech, it does—in no small part because of the possibility of escalation. It’s not simply the danger of non-lethal violence leading to the lethal variety, but that those who believe their views may ultimately be singled out will respond by targeting their own political enemies with violence; and that anti-fascist violence can be used as a justification for violent state repression of dissent. Neither the chilling effect of Nazi-punching on speech nor its use of violence can be limited to its original, reprehensible targets. Once a category of people has been deemed exempt from the normal rules of democratic politics, it is impossible to keep the category from expanding, or others from inventing their own.
That does not make Antifa the moral equivalent of Nazis, nor does it make that movement a more pressing threat to free speech than those who hold the reins of the state and use that power to stifle dissent.
Public support for organized political violence remains low across the political spectrum, and it is one of the strange moral paradoxes of American politics that Nazi-punching is reviled by influential figures across the political spectrum but reflexive support for violence on the industrial scale of modern war is considered respectable.
It is true that many liberals and members of the left exert social pressure on ideas they find abhorrent, as do conservatives. For those who find themselves at the center of such disputes, the experience can be painful or even scary, but they are also an inevitable part of a society where people are allowed to express themselves—some ideas can and should fall into disfavor, even if they can be expressed without fear of state punishment. Even as they portray liberals and leftists as weak snowflakes, conservative complaints about political correctness often reflect acute sensitivity to liberal or left-wing criticism—criticism that when they can, they try to silence through opprobrium.
That’s not to say that such conservatives are opposed to free speech entirely—when it comes to discrimination in the public square, their defense of the principle is unwavering. Before the Supreme Court is the case of a Christian baker who refused to serve gay and lesbian customers, discrimination outlawed by Colorado state law. In that brief, the Trump administration subtly indicated that, far from simply being a matter of religious views on marriage, “free speech” should be understood to protect businesses that wish to discriminate.
As my colleague Garrett Epps writes, the Trump administration’s brief in that case argues that “the government may not compel an unwilling expressive group or event to admit speakers at odds with its message.” More ominously, Epps writes “‘State laws targeting race-based discrimination may survive heightened First Amendment scrutiny,’ the brief says. That’s because the Supreme Court has decided that combatting even private racial discrimination ‘is the most ‘compelling’ of interests.’”
That “may,” Epps notes, “invite future First Amendment challenges to all kinds of racial protections.”
Try to keep your head from spinning too fast at the Trump administration arguing that an expressive group can deny speakers at odds with its message—the very target of conservative legislative proposals aimed at college campuses—the argument itself could be seen to apply to any belief, such as that black people are inferior and shouldn’t share public spaces with white people. By this logic, compelling businesses of public accommodation not to discriminate, as the Civil Rights Act of 1964 does, could be unconstitutional coercion of individuals to express values they do not hold. That’s a vision of “free speech” that the Nazis rioting in Charlottesville would be delighted with.
It’s also hardly far afield from the origins of the modern conservative movement, born from the embers of Arizona Senator Barry Goldwater’s 1964 candidacy, and whose opposition to the Civil Rights Act was core to his victory in the white South and cementing the region’s turn towards the Republican Party. Ultimately the purpose of the argument before the Supreme Court  is to create an exception to anti-discrimination protections large enough to encompass any form of economic activity.
Nor is legalizing discrimination in businesses of public accommodation the only potential consequence of such logic. Some conservatives were outraged when the former Google engineer James Damore was fired for penning a memo that implied men were biologically more inclined towards technical pursuits than women—after initial interviews with several alt-right figures and a public campaign to paint himself as a victim of left-wing political correctness, Damore embarrassed himself by musing publicly about the “coolness” of Klan titles on twitter.
But could any woman who might be supervised by Damore have expected to be evaluated fairly by someone who believed the company’s gender gap was largely the outgrowth of innate, biological differences between men and women? How many departures of women employees who refused to work with Damore should Google have sustained in order to retain him? How many lawsuits from workers who believed they were denied promotions or raises because they are women should Google have sustained? Why do conservatives only support an exception to at-will employment for an employee who expresses the view that he is biologically predisposed to do his job better than his colleagues? (Asked about the NFL protests, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin offered the rather unoriginalist constitutional interpretation that that the players “have the right to have the First Amendment off the field.”)
The boundaries of free speech that elements of the conservative movement mean to set delineate a world in which the state protects the right to discriminate against religious, ethnic, sexual, and gender minorities, and those who choose to protest such treatment can be easily marginalized with public opprobrium or state violence if necessary. For much of the country, and for those who have historically been denied basic rights, it is a vision of an unfree society.


FAIRHOPE, Ala.—There were the Avengers. There were the X-Men. There was the Suicide Squad.
And then there was Steve Bannon, Nigel Farage, Phil Robertson, Chris McDaniel, Paul Nehlen, and Roy Moore.
Monday night in the Mobile Bay town of Fairhope, the stars of the Breitbart universe assembled for Moore’s closing rally ahead of Tuesday’s Senate special primary to fill Attorney General Jeff Sessions’s old seat. On the other side from the aforementioned A-team: Luther Strange and millions of dollars connected to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell—and, though it was barely mentioned, President Trump.
The crew in town for Moore’s rally, despite a mixed record of electoral success and relevance, constitute some of the biggest avatars of the insurgent populist movement Bannon has championed. There was Bannon himself, the former chief strategist who has returned to Breitbart and used it to heavily promote Moore in this special election, which Bannon views as a bellwether for insurgent candidates in 2018. McDaniel and Nehlen are two of Bannon’s favored candidates; McDaniel ran unsuccessfully against Senator Thad Cochran in Mississippi in 2014, and Nehlen, a hardline anti-globalist and occasional user of the alt-right epithet “cuck,” lost by 68 points against Paul Ryan in 2016 and is challenging him again this cycle. Farage, the Brexit thought leader, represents the global aspect of Bannon’s vision of a worldwide nationalist insurgency.
Their presence here also underscored the fevered interest in this low-turnout runoff election, which has turned into a larger proxy war for opposing forces on the right and which has attracted national press due to Bannon’s efforts against Trump’s preferred candidate. Taking the stage as the last speaker, Moore even thanked Bannon directly, calling him an “outstanding man” and saying that he had had one phone call with him and met him once in person, and that he had received more encouragement from him than anyone else. (Moore also at one point brandished a gun onstage that he pulled from his pocket.)
Moore’s anti-establishment appeal stems from his crusade to keep a monument to the 10 Commandments in Alabama’s supreme court, a saga that made him a star in grassroots conservative circles; many Alabamians view Moore’s hard-right social conservatism as a sign of his commitment to standing on principle. Strange, on the other hand, is viewed by Moore voters as merely a tool of the Republican establishment, and they question the way he was appointed by scandal-laden former Governor Robert Bentley, whom he was investigating at the time.
McDaniel, stopping to talk to reporters before entering the venue, smiled when asked who had invited him there: Bannon, or the Moore campaign.
“One and the same, aren’t they?” he said.
Farage said he had been sitting at home in England on Saturday night when he got a call from Raheem Kassam, the Breitbart London editor who is among the crew of Breitbarters deployed down to Alabama this week and who introduced Farage onstage on Monday night. “It was Saturday evening, I’d cut the grass, the sun was starting to go down, I thought, ‘Well, it’s probably time for a drink now,’” he said. “And then the phone rings, and it was Raheem on behalf of Bannon, saying would you come to Alabama, or words to that effect. So I thought about it very hard—I thought about it for certainly 10 seconds to make my mind up.” (Farage gave a similar version of this account onstage shortly after giving it to me, but the onstage version had Bannon calling him directly.)
Bannon arrived shortly before the event was scheduled to start and made his way to the outdoor backstage area as fans and reporters looked on. He sat in a chair as a woman put makeup on him.
Bannon took the stage wearing his signature green Barbour-style jacket, which he referenced during his speech, noting that he was unshaven and that he hadn’t worn it since the campaign.
Though Bannon’s stance in Alabama has put him directly at odds with Trump, he was strenuous in his praise of the president on Monday.
“People have asked, why is Sarah Palin and Phil Robertson and Nigel Farage and and Mark Levin and Mark Meadows and Dr. Savage, I  could go on and on—Laura Ingraham—on and on and on of the people who support Judge Moore and not the candidate Donald Trump is backing,” Bannon said. “All the folks I talked about are the hardest core supporters of Donald Trump and I apologize to Plutarch and Shakespeare  as I do a riff on them, but we did not come here to defy Donald Trump. We came here to praise and honor him.”
Bannon called Trump “one of the most courageous individuals I’ve ever seen.”
Other than Trump, though, he attacked the forces backing Strange, saying “for Mitch McConnell and Ward Baker and Karl Rove and Steven Law, all the instruments that try to destroy Judge Moore and his family, your day of reckoning is coming. But more important, for the donors who put up the money, the corporatists who put up the money, your day of reckoning is coming too.”
Bannon has become unusually famous for someone who is best known as a campaign staffer and White House official. He was treated like a celebrity by the attendees, who mobbed him for selfies afterward. Bannon making a big public appearance is a departure from his usual behind-the-scenes image.
One woman, Abigail Sowell, 55, held a large sign that said “#1 not fake Breitbart News. Speaking truth to lies.”
“They’re honest, they’re nationalist, they don’t have an agenda, they have America at heart,” she said of Breitbart. Sowell believes Fox News has gone too far to the left, except for Sean Hannity, Jeanine Pirro, and Lou Dobbs. Of Bannon, she said “I think Steve Bannon and Jeff Sessions were two of the big ones that put Trump into office. I think it’s a shame that he’s gone. I think Trump’s got his foot in the swamp and it needs to come out.” (Bannon took a photo with Sowell after the event.)
Even his choice of words during his speech recalled a political celebrity of a recent, but different, political era, when he decried the “politics of personal destruction” of the campaign—a phrase that had been often used by the late Andrew Breitbart.
Bannon, who has rarely done TV, went directly to a live hit for Sean Hannity’s show after leaving the stage. He told Hannity that “a real review” would need to be done to look into why Trump “got the wrong information” and supported Strange. (Moore supporters I’ve spoken with have often mentioned that they think Trump is supporting Strange due to bad advice.)
He was more circumspect when asked why the president has supported Strange by reporters as he greeted fans outside. “You’d have to ask the president that,” he said.


Perhaps the grimmest aspect of the ongoing emergency in Puerto Rico is that the knowledge of the aftermath of Hurricane Maria—including 10 deaths, the devastation of entire swathes of the island, and dire shortages of food, water, and fuel—come from the teaspoonfuls of information that have dribbled out of the island. Most places don’t have power, and won’t for weeks, if not months. Less than 300 of the island’s 1,600 cellphone towers are functional, 85 percent of all above-ground cable and phone infrastructure was knocked out, and the more remote areas that make up the majority of Puerto Rico’s landmass have mostly gone dark, with brief calls from satellite phones providing sporadic updates. There’s no way to know for certain how bad the crisis is, and that dearth of information in turn has become part of the crisis itself.
For the millions of people in the Puerto Rican diaspora, both on the island and on the mainland, the lack of information is one of the most disruptive parts of the disaster. For people living on the island, it’s often impossible to get word out as conditions deteriorate, to know when aid might be coming, or to coordinate the delivery and access to life-saving services. Their relatives scattered across the United States and elsewhere have been left entirely in the dark as to the status of family members. While there’s no shortage of stories on the long-term implications of Hurricanes Irma and Maria on Puerto Rico and its existing humanitarian problems, at the moment many Puerto Ricans haven’t yet settled a more basic question: Who made it through the storm and its aftermath?
On the mainland, Puerto Ricans are still waiting for any news about loved ones on the island. For Alexandra Gates, a graduate student at the University of Chicago, communication with extended family in Puerto Rico has been limited. “We have literally gotten two text messages and one or two very spotty phone calls from them,” Gates says. “All they were saying is 'hey we're alive,’ and that's it. Then it all goes dark again.” Since most wi-fi on the island is down, the WhatsApp groups that the family usually uses to keep tabs seamlessly with people on both sides of the Caribbean have mostly gone dark, and family members have had to rely on pilgrimages to working cell towers in order to send brief status updates by text.
For cousins in or near the capital of San Juan, this is an inconvenient, but not terribly difficult proposition. For cousins further out in more remote areas, updating family means using limited gasoline supplies to take long trips across washed out roads, mud, and debris in order to stand in line outside a working tower.
But in more remote areas, even those options aren’t available. The tiny, rural island municipality of Vieques, which used to house a Navy munitions test facility, only had tenuous infrastructure connections to the larger island before it suffered a direct hit from Maria. Now, according to residents, the only power on Vieques is supplied by generators, which must themselves be resupplied regularly with gasoline from the main island, which itself might face gasoline supply problems in the near future. Power isn’t expected to be restored for months, and most telephone lines and trees on the island are down. Cell service hasn’t been working, and only a handful of satellite phones—including some owned and operated by FEMA officials—are available to provide updates to the authorities or to families. According to Steven Mueller, a resident of Vieques currently working out of Washington, D.C., “they're entirely dependent on one power line and one water line that we have to the main island.”
Still, residents of Vieques are working to get around those barriers. The day after Hurricane Maria hit, Vieques resident Brittany Roush began using Facebook to coordinate communications and aid. “This effort started with the Facebook page Vieques Peeps that most residents use to connect with each other,” Roush says. “The morning after the storm, there were a few hours where people had lost contact and frantic posts were starting to pile up.” Roush and friends who were not on Vieques when it was hit began taking calls and posts about family members and working to provide up-to-date information.
Those efforts evolved into the ViequesLove project, which Roush runs along with Mueller, her husband, and which has raised over $200,000 via GoFundMe. The group has worked to maintain a list of people verified as safe on Vieques by communicating with the few residents with satellite phones, having coordinated supply runs with government officials, and on Sunday and Monday managing to charter a plane to drop off more supplies on the island. Those flights helped resupply the hospital, where doctors and nurses are currently operating in tents, relying on a gasoline stockpile that can keep generators going for five days.
Although FEMA and the Red Cross are present on Vieques, as they are across Puerto Rico, with federal assets often slow to arrive and difficult to manage, social media and efforts by concerned citizens have been vital to keeping lines of communication open and coordinating relief. The “Puerto Rico Maria Updates” Facebook page boasts over 150,000 members, and has developed in a matter of days into perhaps the quickest real-time news service about developments in Puerto Rico, as well as one of the primary ways for Puerto Ricans on the mainland or in different municipalities to find out about relatives elsewhere.
Patricia Pichardo, who was born and raised in Puerto Rico, but lives and works in Atlanta, Georgia, started the Puerto Rico Maria Updates group the morning after Maria made landfall. “Wednesday morning when they were hit, I was expecting for communications to be lost, but not right away,” Pichardo says. “But the news outlets were only communicating with very broad information,” with very little in the way of news about individual towns. Pichardo was looking for news about her sister, Carolina, in Caguas, which is located about 20 miles inland from San Juan.
In her search for news about her sister and relative in Caguas, Pichardo came across posts from family friends on Facebook verifying that they were safe. She realized that a large-enough moderated Facebook group could amplify the sparse news from outlying municipalities, and could help connect Puerto Ricans with family and with resources.  “I said maybe if I can get enough friends and enough friends' friends to join, then maybe I can reach a critical mass where I'm able to hear more inside news than just by browsing my newsfeed alone,” Pichardo says. So on Wednesday, she created posts exhorting people on the island and on the mainland to join, and paid to sponsor the posts. By the evening the group boasted almost a thousand people. At its most rapid growth rate, the page added 1,000 new members an hour, and generated hundreds of new posts and dozens of documents detailing logistics, supplies, and safe lists.
The Puerto Rico Maria Updates page has become such an indispensable source of knowledge to people seeking any sense of what’s happening on the ground that it’s become a key source for a tool from Univision News that provides municipality-by-municipality updates. That tool is powered by a mixture of official news reports and social media chatter, much of which comes from Pichardo’s group.
The tool’s usefulness is reliant on the quality of information from the Facebook group, which now features an extensive cast of moderators who regularly call out and ban false reports and posts that don’t meet their strict guidelines for quality. Moderators upvote seemingly reliable content, use hundreds of volunteers to scour posts and discern whether information is corroborated internally or with news reports, block trolls and unauthorized fundraisers, and even issue corrections or warnings on faulty posts. All of those activities are directed by what Pichardo describes as “self-organization,” with people volunteering for fact-checking duties. “The group itself has a very strong identity and a very strong desire for real information,” Pichardo says. “But we’re not sleeping very much.”
The collection of efforts launched by activists on the island and family members on the mainland are similar in spirit to the deployment of the “Cajun Navy” in Houston after Hurricane Harvey. Then, residents used WhatsApp and the Talkie app, along with dozens of hours of work from unpaid volunteer dispatchers, to triage relief efforts in real time, get boats and trucks to people the most in need, and provide information to victims, their families, and authorities. In that example, the efforts of private citizens proved perhaps just as valuable as and more trusted than those of first responders and federal entities.
For Puerto Rico, where migration to the mainland is common, and where a recession and economic crisis have forced a wave of millions to move in the past few years in search of greater job prospects, political status, or health care, the connection is deeper. Crowdfunding and crowdsourcing simply mirror existing familial and community lines that have been maintained even as families are spread across the continental United States. And those lines are more important in Puerto Rico, which was singled out over Texas and Florida on Monday by President Trump as being “in deep trouble,” and where official aid and federal authorities have been criticized for their slow response and lack of communication.
“We are doing things everywhere we are, and we're doing it because maybe our aspirations go beyond what the island can provide us in terms of infrastructure,” Pichardo says. “We're everywhere. We're no longer all in Puerto Rico. But not because we don't love them and not because we are disconnected.”


Ordinarily, you debate to stave off defeat. But for Senators Lindsey Graham and Bill Cassidy on Monday night, the defeat came first.
By the time the two GOP senators stepped on CNN’s stage Monday night for a prime-time debate over their health-care proposal, they knew they had already lost.
A few hours earlier, Senator Susan Collins became the third Republican to formally reject the pair’s legislation to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, effectively killing its chances for passage through the Senate this week. Graham and Cassidy had hoped to use the forum to make a closing argument for their plan, and to line it up against Senator Bernie Sanders and his call for a single-payer, “Medicare-for-All” health-care system. Instead, the two senators found themselves defending a proposal that was no less hypothetical—and probably much less popular—than Sanders’s supposed liberal fantasy.
The Obamacare Repeal Effort Might Finally Be Dead
“We’re going to press on,” Graham said about his and Cassidy’s proposal, offering none of the optimism they had in recent days about its prospects. The South Carolinian said it was “okay to vote” on the plan even if it fell short, a signal that he hoped Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell would not abandon plans to bring it up for debate.
Graham and Cassidy dutifully defended their bill against attacks from Sanders and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, arguing that its cuts to Medicaid put the program on a sustainable trajectory and that governors could be trusted to offer consumer protections that would no longer be federally guaranteed. “I trust governors,” Cassidy told a questioner during the town-hall format who asked about the bill’s provision allowing states the opt out of requiring insurers to charge the same rates to people with preexisting conditions. “I actually think that governors respond to the people that elected them. If they don’t, they don’t win next time,” Cassidy said.
It was Sanders, however, who took full advantage of the national audience to articulate a position on health care that was more nuanced than his critics—both Democrats and Republicans—often attribute to him. Some Democrats had feared the Vermont independent would allow Graham to goad him into a debate over single payer when the party needed him to focus on defeating the Republican repeal bill.
But Sanders appeared more agile than he did during some of his presidential primary debates with Hillary Clinton last year. He assailed the Graham-Cassidy while defending the strengths of Obamacare and talking up consensus Democratic proposals, including a gradual expansion of Medicare, a public-insurance option, and allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices with pharmaceutical companies.
“The truth of the matter is the Affordable Care Act has done some very important things,” Sanders said. “Let’s not throw the baby out with the bathwater.” Echoing the Democratic Party line, he urged Republicans to “work together and improve the Affordable Care Act, not repeal it.” Sanders made a distinction between the “short-term” goal of improving the current system and his longer-term goal of Medicare-for-All, which he acknowledged had no chance of passing while the Republicans controlled Congress.
Graham and Cassidy appeared frustrated at times by his restraint. “Bernie is the most honest person in the Senate, because he believes in government-run health care from cradle to grave,” Graham said. The tone of the debate remained cordial throughout, with the senators often referring to each other by their first names. The four even tip-toed toward consensus at points, as Graham and Sanders laughingly agreed that insurance companies were making out too well under Obamacare, and Sanders and Cassidy agreed on the need to control drug prices. But once the senators began to dig a little deeper, the agreement quickly faded. When Sanders tried to get Cassidy to commit to backing his bill on allowing negotiated drug prices, the Louisiana Republican ignored him and called him “a socialist” instead.
Graham appeared deflated at the outset of the debate, but he mustered an emotional defense of his close friend Senator John McCain, who has come under heavy criticism from President Trump for opposing the last two GOP repeal efforts. “John McCain was willing to die for this country, and he can vote however he wants to,” Graham said after CNN’s Jake Tapper read an angry tweet Trump sent during the middle of the debate.
Klobuchar, who is one of more than a dozen Democrats discussed as possible presidential contenders in 2020, used the opportunity to introduce herself and to implore Republicans to return to bipartisan talks on fixes for Obamacare. Graham, however, was having none of it. “It’s not working, and it’s never going to work,” he said of the law. “I don’t see a solution other than just throwing money at insurance companies. I’m not going to do it. Do you hear me?” he added later.
Graham’s comments fit a theme for the 90-minute debate: As the Democrats tried to entice the Republicans with talk of negotiations and consensus, the Republicans recoiled toward repeal. Graham and Cassidy may reluctantly recognize their own plan is dead, but with the defeat still fresh, they weren’t ready to move on yet, either.


Updated on September 25 at 8:20 p.m.
Late Sunday night, Josh Dawsey of Politico dropped a story that, in any other administration, would have been cause for concern but hardly surprise.
“Presidential son-in-law and senior adviser Jared Kushner has corresponded with other administration officials about White House matters through a private email account set up during the transition last December,” Dawsey wrote. “Kushner and his wife, Ivanka Trump, set up their private family domain late last year before moving to Washington from New York, according to people with knowledge of events as well as publicly available internet registration records.”
Why Is Jared Kushner Still in the White House?
On Monday, Newsweek reported that Ivanka Trump had also used the domain to communicate with at least one government official, Small Business Administration chief Linda McMahon.* By Monday night, The New York Times had reported that at least six officials, including former Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, former strategist Steve Bannon, and aides Stephen Miller and Gary Cohn, had used personal accounts for at least some official business.
Administration officials conducting business on personal accounts raises concerns because it suggests some intention to skirt public-records laws and conceal things from the public. While troubling, this is hardly unusual. Sarah Palin was busted for using one. So were officials in the George W. Bush administration. Lisa Jackson, who ran the Environmental Protection Agency under Barack Obama, used an alias for her email.
Of course, the most famous example of someone using a personal email is Hillary Clinton. The case of the Javanka domain is brazen for its mimickry of Clinton’s actions at the State Department, right down to the use of a domain specifically for the family. The only way it could be more slapstick would be if Kushner and Trump also used BleachBit.
There are significant ways the Kushner-Ivanka domain differs from Clinton’s. Neither of them is a Cabinet secretary. (Trump, despite her title as special assistant to the president, says she doesn’t even want to get involved in politics.) Neither of them is running for office (at the moment). The scale of their usage pales in comparison to Clinton’s, and there’s no indication that they deleted any emails. Nor is there any indication that classified information was sent in the emails.
Yet it takes a special sort of hypocrisy, or dark sense of humor, or lack of self-awareness for Trump’s daughter and son-in-law to do this after watching a race in which Donald Trump campaigned for, and arguably won, the presidency because of Clinton’s imprudent decision to use the private email domain. She was cleared by the FBI and the Justice Department of any crimes, though then-FBI Director James Comey called her “extremely careless” with classified information. It was the political sin of looking like she had something to hide, and was trying hard to hide it, that stuck to Clinton. Somehow, Kushner and Trump still decided to set up their own family domain, and no one convinced them it was a bad idea.
This is only the latest example of the Trump administration committing the very sins for which it crucified its political opponents. Trump assailed Barack Obama for taking vacations and playing golf too frequently; Trump vacations, and he plays golf more often than Obama. Trump assailed Obama for laying down red lines and not enforcing them; Trump keeps doing the same. Trump accused Obama of dividing the nation and of distancing America from its closest allies; Trump is a virtuosic divider, and frequently at odds with allied leaders. Trump vigorously attacked Clinton for having a private email account; a handful of his top advisers did the same.
If everyone does it, why did the email situation stick to Clinton so badly? In part because the public was already primed to view Clinton as ethically dubious. It was an impression fed by her husband’s scandal-plagued tenure as president as well as things like her speeches to Goldman Sachs, and encouraged by a cottage industry created for that purpose. Fairly or unfairly, the email server made for the perfect attack, aided, as my colleague James Fallows recently argued, by a press corps only too eager to amplify it.
So why doesn’t it stick to Trump? After all, he has his own history of ethical and legal shortcomings, one that is more robust and more concretely documented than anything in Clinton’s record. But the same actions don’t necessarily come off the same way. Some of that is simple partisanship: When your guy does it, it’s different from when the other guy does it. Another compelling explanation for why Trump gets away with the things he critiques is that some of his supporters love that he’s a brawler.
Michael Moore laid this line of thinking out in a recent New York Magazine interview. “They loved the brazenness of it. Even when they didn’t necessarily agree with it, they thought, That took balls. They may not personally think McCain’s a coward, but they think, Wow, that’s who I want. Somebody who’s just going to say shit like that,” Moore said. “Americans, they want somebody who stands up for the things that he or she believes in and says it without any apology.”
The extent to which Trump really is the Teflon Don is debatable. It is true that he has survived things that would have killed a lesser politician’s career a dozen times over; it is also true that his approval ratings are record-breakingly low, his administration is nearly devoid of major accomplishments, and he faces a perilous special-counsel investigation. For now, though, he remains standing.
The question is whether that applies to others. Trump’s aides and advisers seem to have come to believe that the force-field of gravity distortion that protects the president will apply to them too. Whether they are right is less clear.
Think of Michael Flynn’s mixing of private- and public-sector work, his decision not to make required disclosures, and his decision to lie to the vice president—and, perhaps, the FBI. Think of Paul Manafort allegedly advising a Russian billionaire even as he ran the Trump campaign. Think of Anthony Scaramucci’s R-rated circus-act of a 10-day tenure as White House communications director. Each of them behaved as though they too were immune to standard pressures. But Flynn was fired and is under multiple investigations. Manafort is too, and his home was raided before dawn by FBI agents; he has reportedly been told to expect to be indicted. Scaramucci was fired before he’d had a chance to get off the ground.
Kushner, so far, is still standing, but it’s easy to imagine that if he were not related to the president, he too might have been shoved out onto Pennsylvania Avenue. Like his boss and father-in-law, Kushner brings serious liabilities from his business career. He has multiple unexplained contacts with Russian officials, from the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting to a disputed meeting with the head of a Russian state-controlled bank, plus a report that he tried to set up a back channel with Russian officials. His clearance forms were highly incomplete, and he offered an implausible excuse. In fact, there were so many worrying moments that, according to The Wall Street Journal, some of the president’s lawyers wanted Kushner removed from the White House this summer. Trump refused.
A common knock on the Clintons was that they behaved as though the rules did not apply to them. Already, some members of Trump’s inner circle are acting the same way. Feeling immune to ordinary strictures can be alluring, but as Hillary Clinton learned, sometimes you only discover too late that it’s an illusion.
* This article originally stated Ivanka Trump used a private email server to communicate with Linda McMahon. We regret the error.


Updated on September 25 at 6:32 p.m. ET
There remains a slim possibility that in the next few days, Senate Republicans will pass the health-care proposal known as Graham-Cassidy, the legislation that party leaders have described as their “last, best chance” to substantially repeal the Affordable Care Act.
But for that to happen, the bill’s champions would have to win back the vote of at least one of the three Republicans who have signaled their opposition. They’d have to persuade multiple others to abandon their previously stated positions on the sanctity of protections for people with preexisting conditions. And they’d have to lock down still more Republicans who balked on Monday at changes to the legislation that were made expressly to secure their support.
Until Monday evening, Republicans seemed to have at least a chance at pushing the measure through. But the repeal effort may have died altogether when Senator Susan Collins of Maine became the third—and for now, decisive—Republican to come out firmly against the Graham-Cassidy plan. Collins joined Senators John McCain of Arizona and Rand Paul of Kentucky in opposing the bill, with several others wavering. With unified Democratic opposition, Republicans can lose no more than two on their side and still have Vice President Mike Pence cast the tie-breaking vote to pass it. Collins formalized her position in a lengthy and highly critical statement moments after the Congressional Budget Office released a preliminary analysis finding that the Graham-Cassidy proposal, like previous GOP plans, would result in “millions” fewer Americans having health insurance.
Even before the Collins statement, few Republicans were willing to predict its passage before a September 30 procedural deadline for enactment on a party-line basis. Not President Trump, who seemed resigned to its failure during an interview on an Alabama radio show. Not Senator Orrin Hatch, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, who told reporters it would be “nearly impossible” to pass Graham-Cassidy moments before he convened the lone hearing that Congress plans to hold on the bill. And not Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who was silent on the question of whether the proposal would even receive a vote on the Senate floor.
John McCain Saves Obamacare Once Again
Written by Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, the bill would cap Medicaid spending and convert about $1.2 trillion in funding for Obamacare over the next decade into block grants for states, which would have broad latitude to opt out of the law’s core insurance regulations. Graham and Cassidy have pitched it as a federalist approach to health care, allowing states to design health-care systems that best fit their populations and their political leanings. But it has run into overwhelming opposition from virtually the entire health-care industry, and on Monday senators witnessed the emotions of the debate first-hand as more than 100 protesters—some who have disabilities and were dragged away in wheelchairs—were arrested at the outset of the Finance Committee’s hearing.
Most ominously for Graham and Cassidy, their bill has yet to overcome the underlying divide that has stymied Republican repeal proposals for months. The two senators had earlier boasted that they were “inside the five-yard line” and had 47, 48, even 49 of the 50 Republican votes they need to pass their plan. But they’ve been essentially stuck for more than a week. Graham failed to win over his close friend McCain, who officially announced his opposition over the GOP’s rushed process on Friday after tanking an earlier repeal plan in July.
Paul has steadfastly denounced the bill from the right, calling it “fake repeal” that merely reshuffles Obamacare spending from blue states to red ones. After signaling that he might be open to negotiations over the weekend, Paul on Monday rejected a revised version that would make it easier for states to wriggle free of the law’s insurance regulations, including the central prohibition on insurers charging higher rates to and imposing lifetime limits on people with preexisting conditions. The Kentucky conservative said on CNN he’d only support the bill if its block grants—the central feature, according to Graham and Cassidy—were removed.
And on Monday, Collins confirmed she was equally out of reach despite the fact that the revised bill offered Maine significantly more money than the original version. “It’s not for Susan, it’s for the Mainers,” Cassidy told The Washington Post about the changes, which critics promptly likened to a bribe. Collins had opposed each of the GOP repeal proposals and said Sunday in television interviews that it was “difficult to envision” a scenario in which she would vote yes on the Graham-Cassidy plan. And then there was Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, who has given no indication of which way she’s leaning but who, like Collins, opposed the previous Republican bills. Graham and Cassidy made a transparent, even blatant, attempt to win Murkowski’s vote by steering money back to Alaska in the new version of the bill they released Monday morning.
Appearing on CNN, Cassidy acknowledged that if he and Graham could not win over Collins, their bill was likely dead.
Against those increasingly long prospects came the Senate hearing on Monday afternoon, which Hatch led without evident enthusiasm. Hundreds of activists lined the halls trying to get in, and most of those who made it into the hearing room were ejected for disruptions as it began. “If you can’t be in order, then get the hell out of here,” Hatch snapped at one point. He warned that he would adjourn the hearing entirely if things got out of hand. “It hasn’t got to that point yet, but it’s close,” the chairman said.
The hearing proceeded even as chants of “No cuts to Medicaid!” were audible from those protesting outside. Inside, there was little consensus on policy and none of the bipartisan bonhomie that accompanied hearings earlier this month in the Senate health committee, where Republicans and Democrats discussed narrower fixes for Obamacare rather than repeal. Graham and Cassidy testified in support of their proposal, and they were on the defensive from the beginning as they tried to rebut the arguments from Democrats, governors, insurance commissioners, industry experts, and even some of their fellow Republicans. “Maybe we’ll find a common way forward. I don’t know,” Graham said. He cast the widespread criticism of the bill as coming from those who were benefiting under the status quo. “Everybody opposing my bill is a big winner under Obamacare,” Graham said.
Cassidy was appearing before a committee on which he serves, but he clashed with senators nonetheless. When Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon tried to pin him down on whether his proposal would maintain Obamacare’s ironclad protection for people with preexisting conditions, he refused to answer directly. “Mr. Chairman, let the record show that our colleague does not want to answer the question,” Wyden said, prompting Hatch to urge him to treat Cassidy nicely. Cassidy also asserted that bipartisan efforts to fix the current law had not happened, in direct contradiction to the negotiations that were occurring in the Senate health committee until Republicans pulled out last week.
As the hearing stretched into its fourth hour, senators and the panel of six witnesses managed to delve into policy specifics and debate the potential benefits of states trading more flexibility for less money on health care. But the hearing seemed to come too late in the process to change many minds. Republicans on the committee were by and large supportive of the Graham-Cassidy proposal, while Democrats were universally opposed. The bill’s fate would be decided outside the room, either with the last-minute conversion of a long-standing critic, or a final public verdict by one more opponent that would seal its demise. On Monday evening, Collins stepped in with the latter.


The FBI’s latest crime report isn’t heartening. Murders in the United States rose by almost 9 percent last year, the FBI reported Monday, mirroring similar increases in other forms of violent crime. The homicide spike is one of the sharpest one-year upticks since the Great American Crime Decline in the 1990s, and, when combined with 2015’s numbers, marks only the second two-year increase since the 1980s.
But a deeper dive into Monday’s stats doesn’t suggest that the United States is backsliding to the high-crime years of the late 1980s and early 1990s. Instead, the FBI’s data points to sharp geographic disparities in violent crimes in American society, with a few major cities accounting for large portions of 2016’s growth in murders and other serious offenses.
The new figures come from the latest edition of the Uniform Crime Report, an annual collection of crime data published by the FBI. The UCR includes self-reported stats on an assortment of major offenses from almost every law-enforcement agency in the United States. Because people don’t always report incidents to the police for a variety of reasons, criminologists typically use it alongside other datasets like the National Crime Victimization Survey to measure crime rates.
According to the UCR, murders in the United States rose by 8.6 percent in 2016, a notable increase even before it’s placed alongside the 10.8 percent jump in 2015. Homicide data is considered the most reliable of the indicators measured by the UCR, because it tends to be more easily measurable by local law-enforcement agencies. Other offenses like rape and aggravated assault saw a slightly smaller increase, while property crimes remained roughly the same. (Auto theft, which rose 7.4 percent, was a notable outlier.)
Rural, urban, and suburban communities all saw increases in violent crimes in 2016. But they were of varying degrees. Some places, like Houston and Washington, D.C., saw the number of murders either stay roughly the same or slightly decline. Other communities fared worse. Chicago ended 2016 with 762 murders, a whopping 58 percent jump over 2015’s total. Baltimore experienced its second-deadliest year on record with 358 murders, surpassing the previous record set in 2015.
That disparity could be felt in the national stats. John Pfaff, a Fordham University law professor who studies crime statistics, noted on Twitter that 22 percent of the nationwide increase in murders came from Chicago alone. But inside Chicago itself, 50 percent of the homicide rise came from just five neighborhoods, which account for only 9 percent of the city’s overall population. Those neighborhoods, in effect, account for 10 percent of the national increase in murders.
In an email, Pfaff pointed out that Monday’s data matched what scholars already knew. “Crime has always been highly localized,” Pfaff said. “Studies in several cities have shown that about half of all reported crime occurs in under 10 percent of all city blocks, and almost all crime in under half. And those ‘at risk’ blocks remain fairly constant over time. So talking about crime in ‘the U.S.,’ or ‘Illinois,’ or even ‘Chicago’ has always been somewhat misleading.”
New York City’s declining crime rates also highlight the geographic incongruity in crime spikes. The city’s struggle with violent crime in the late 1980s and early 1990s made it synonymous with the nationwide crime wave of that era. Its homicide rate peaked at 2,245 murders in 1990; by comparison, its rate dropped to 335 murders in 2016. Shootings dropped by 12 percent as other major crimes fell across the board. City officials attributed the decrease to a crackdown on violent gangs, although New York City Police Department data reported only 40 percent of murder cases had resulted in an arrest.
What’s driving the increases in violence in the affected cities isn’t clear. Researchers in Chicago have struggled to find any direct causal factors behind the jump in gun violence there. Shootings and murders noticeably rose around the time that the Chicago Police Department released a video of officers killing 17-year-old Laquan McDonald in November 2015, but it’s uncertain if a subsequent drop in police street searches played a role. (Whether it would is also debatable: New York City defied predictions after its crime levels continued to drop after it all but abandoned stop-and-frisk in 2011.) And what exactly causes crime to rise and fall is far from certain: Scholars have plenty of theories but no conclusive explanations for the widespread crime decline of the 1990s.
It’s unlikely that politicians will be content with the mystery. President Trump, who rose to power claiming he’d be a “law and order” president, has frequently invoked the specter of rising crime since he launched his campaign. Even before Monday’s report, Attorney General Jeff Sessions cited recent jumps in violent crime as reason to roll back Obama-era reforms in the Justice Department aimed at curbing excessive sentences. In a statement Monday, Sessions vowed to work with local partners to “send a strong message to criminals that we will not surrender our communities to lawlessness and violence.”
Proponents of criminal-justice reform have long feared that a resurgence of crime could unwind the growing political consensus against mass incarceration. On Monday, some noted that American crime rates are still a long way from their highs three decades ago. “The data debunk claims from the Trump administration that crime is out of control, but do highlight cities where violence is concerning,” Inimai Chettiar, the director of the Brennan Center’s Justice Program, said in a statement. “But by painting the entire country with too broad a brush, President Trump and Attorney General Sessions are peddling fear and distracting from the frank and honest conversations needed to find solutions to these real problems.”
Whether Monday’s figures will dampen those efforts remains to be seen. Iowa Senator Chuck Grassley and Illinois Senator Dick Durbin are planning to reintroduce a major federal sentencing-reform bill that failed to pass Congress during the presidential campaign last year. It seems destined to face major opposition from within the administration: Among those who defeated the measure in 2016 was then-Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions.
“The obvious lesson is that grand comprehensive theories [about crime rising] are likely not too trustworthy right now,” Pfaff said. A single theory can sometimes explain a surge in crime, like the emergence of crack cocaine in the 1980s, he noted. But no single factor appeared to be driving the current spike. “What is happening is local and likely demands solutions that account for local conditions,” he said.


Protesters disrupted the Senate Finance Committee hearing on the Graham-Cassidy health-care bill. Despite new revisions to the legislation, Republican Senator Rand Paul said he remains opposed to the measure. Former New York Representative Anthony Weiner, who pleaded guilty in May to transferring obscene material to a minor, was sentenced to 21 months in prison. The Supreme Court canceled oral arguments for two cases related to President Trump’s travel ban, after the administration issued a new update to the ban. Republican Senators Lindsey Graham and Bill Cassidy will debate Senators Bernie Sanders and Amy Klobuchar on health care at 9 p.m. ET on CNN.
Who Has Moore Sway?: Alabama’s GOP Senate primary between Senator Luther Strange, a candidate backed by President Trump, and Roy Moore, backed by conservative firebrands like Steve Bannon, is testing Trump’s bond with his base. (Rosie Gray)
‘Don’t Take the Knee’: Athletes shouldn’t kneel during the national anthem, argues David Frum, because it concedes America’s flag to Donald Trump and his supporters.
Does It Matter?: Facebook recently announced that Russian-linked accounts purchased $100,000 worth of advertising. Here’s how significant that ad buy might be. (Alexis C. Madrigal)
Follow stories throughout the day with our Politics & Policy portal.

Supplies Are Running Out: The isolated mountain town of Juntos, Puerto Rico, was hit hard by Hurricane Maria, and its residents are desperate for help: “The first thing some villagers ask when they see outsiders: ‘Are you FEMA?’” (Samantha Schmidt and Joel Achenbach, The Washington Post)
‘A Woman’s Work’: Attorney Gloria Allred gained notoriety by overseeing a number of high-profile cases involving women seeking justice. But her career can also be seen as “a decades-long project to expand the boundaries of legitimate victimhood.” (Jia Tolentino, The New Yorker)
Only Trump Wins: In the NFL-kneeling debate, President Trump is up against “out-of-touch athletes who appear to be opposing the flag and the troops,” argues Scott Greer. And Trump is likely to emerge as the victor. (The Daily Caller)
A Whirlwind for Lindsey Graham: Weeks after the South Carolina senator was berated on Twitter by President Trump, his health-care legislation was being praised by the president. “Then his best friend spoiled the party.” (Jamie Lovegrove, The Post and Courier)
Sneaky: During the presidential campaign, Steve Bannon reportedly planned to use a mole to spy on Facebook’s job application process. (Joseph Bernstein, BuzzFeed)
‘It’s Very Serious’: In an interview with 60 Minutes, Senator John McCain, who was recently diagnosed with brain cancer, said doctors gave him a “very poor prognosis.” (Dan Nowicki, AZ Central)
Compare and Contrast: Here’s how the Graham-Cassidy bill is different from other recent Republican attempts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. (Haeyoun Park, The New York Times)
During a rally in Alabama last Friday, President Trump blasted NFL players who knelt during the national anthem. Trump’s remarks fueled widespread protests that played out on the sidelines over the weekend. Now, Trump is calling for football fans to boycott the NFL for “disrespecting our Flag & Country.”
Do you agree or disagree with the president’s position? Why or why not?
Share your response here, and we'll feature a few in Friday’s Politics & Policy Daily.
-Written by Elaine Godfrey (@elainejgodfrey)


Friday morning, things didn’t look great for Colin Kaepernick.
The former San Francisco 49er had made headlines around the world last season for kneeling during the National Anthem. The offseason had seen a raging debate about the fact that he hadn’t been signed from free agency, which boiled down to whether teams were justified in deciding that his controversial protest outweighed his talent. Despite some comically atrocious performances by quarterbacks on NFL rosters in the first two weeks of the season, Kaepernick remained unsigned. A few fellow players said publicly that he deserved a roster spot somewhere, and some had taken up his protest, but it remained a niche question, and the cause to which Kaepernick wished to draw attention—police brutality against people of color—had faded a bit from the headlines, overwhelmed by the onslaught of Trump-related news.
Kneeling for Life and Liberty Is Patriotic
Then came President Trump’s riff during a rally in Alabama Friday night.
“Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out,’” Trump said. “‘He’s fired. He’s fired!’”
By the close of the weekend, the president wasn’t contending just with Kaepernick. He was facing off with hundreds of NFL players, who had either taken a knee, like Kaepernick, or stayed in the locker room during the playing of the National Anthem. He’d been scolded by multiple team owners, including his personal friend Robert Kraft of the New England Patriots, and the NFL commissioner. The dispute had spilled over the bounds of NFL and included LeBron James and Steph Curry. Even Michael Jordan, who (supposedly) long evaded politics because “Republicans buy sneakers too” criticized Trump.
Many barrels of pixels have been spilled already trying to analyze the political implications for Trump of the spat, but just as important, and perhaps less recognized, is what a coup this is for Kaepernick. Over the course of a single weekend, Kaepernick was transformed from a down-and-out athlete into an icon of protest. What loftier goal can a symbolic protest like Kaepernick’s kneeling have than to capture the attention of the president of the United States and to dominate the news?
Yes, the conversation could be more meaningfully focused on the actual issue of racism than it is. It’s subject to the Trump distortion effect, in which every story the president touches becomes about him. Yet much of the pushback has been focused on race, and the uncomfortable specter of a president who hesitated to condemn white supremacists picking a fight with black athletes. Besides, Kaepernick isn’t a theorist or a policymaker. He is, in addition to being an elite athlete, an activist, and the point of protests like his is grabbing attention.
For this reason, the retort from a few of the many athletes who criticized Trump that he should mind his own business seems to miss the point:
Trump stay in ur place... football have nothing to do wit u smh
With everything that's going on in our country, why are YOU focused on who's kneeling and visiting the White House??? #StayInYoLane
There’s a tinge of irony here, in that athletes who have protested have been scolded to stay in their own lanes, but the question of racial equality is, or at least should be, firmly within the president’s lane. It’s certainly a political issue, and the point of these protests is to affect the political discussion.
Being scolded for overstepping their bounds and wearing unusual hairstyles are not the only things that unite Trump and Kaepernick. They are practically mirror images: Both men gained new prominence in 2016 while criticizing the status quo in the United States. For Trump, present-day America had tipped too far toward diversity and needed to be made great again, while for Kaepernick, it hadn’t tipped far enough. They were each happy to use each other as a foil in order to advance their respective causes. Kaepernick called Trump “openly racist.” Trump, even while calling for change and lamenting that the U.S. wasn’t as great as it used to be at some undefined past moment, sniped that Kaepernick should move somewhere else if he didn’t like America.
Amid the weekend shootout, some anti-Trump analysts, including my colleague David Frum, have reached the reasonable judgment that this fight will benefit the president by allowing him to wrap himself in the flag. Trump is “hoping to provoke a dynamic in which many of the country’s most famous and most visible African Americans appear en masse to disrespect the anthem and the flag. In so doing, they will fortify Trump’s own claim that these symbols properly belong to him and to his supporters.”
The conservative commentator David French, who nearly ran for president just to deny the office to Trump, argues the reverse:
At one stroke, thanks to an attempted vulgar display of strength, Trump changed the playing of the anthem and the display of the flag from a moment where all but the most radical Americans could unite to one where millions of well-meaning Americans could and did legitimately believe that the decision to kneel represented a defense of the ideals of the flag, not defiance of the nation they love.
Of course, this is the spirit in which many of the kneeling athletes say they deliver their protests: as American patriots, but as ones who want the nation to be better than it is.
Following Trump’s inflammatory remarks after Charlottesville, Steve Bannon argued that racial politics redounded to benefit the president. Now, a Trump adviser tells Jim Acosta that the president is “winning the cultural war” and had “just made millionaire sport athletes his new” Hillary Clinton. And it may well be that this incident helps Trump not only with his core supporters but with other Americans as well, at least in the short to medium term.
But perhaps the story is not so much that Trump baited leftists as that they baited him. Regardless of how this pans out for Trump, Kaepernick was playing the long game—a West Coast offense, so to speak. It’s not the first time that’s turned out well for a Niners quarterback.


After spending the weekend picking fights with the two best basketball players in the world, President Trump woke up Monday morning in a more contemplative, jingoistic mood—shifting both his emphasis and his tone.
The issue of kneeling has nothing to do with race. It is about respect for our Country, Flag and National Anthem. NFL must respect this!
So proud of NASCAR and its supporters and fans. They won't put up with disrespecting our Country or our Flag - they said it loud and clear!
#StandForOurAnthem
These missives fit with the way Trump often handles his many feuds and crises, starting from an extreme position and then slowly groping toward one where he can find popular support. While the fights that the president picks are often comically unpredictable—if you had “Twitter fight with Steph Curry and LeBron James” on your presidential bingo card for the weekend, step up to the table to take your winnings—but the way that he conducts himself, having chosen a fight, seems to display a pattern.
As in so many things, Trump the president is little different from Trump the businessman. His impulse is to start from a big, splashy, gaudy place—say, calling players who kneel for the National Anthem “sons of bitches,” or claiming he was revoking an invitation to the White House from Curry, who’d already rejected it. (You can’t quit, you’re fired!) These decisions seem to stem from the gut, no Clintonian polling about it. Trump sees something and he says whatever comes to mind about it.
The problem is that often those views are unwise or politically hazardous. For example, Trump’s condemnation of violence “on all sides” in Charlottesville was poorly received, and his comment a few days later that there were “very fine people” walking alongside neo-Nazis and white supremacists was even worse. Likewise, taking a potshot at Colin Kaepernick may be relatively risk-free—he’s an unsigned free agent, and polling shows that majorities disagree with his protest—but LeBron James and the NFL writ large are popular.
So Trump has recalibrated, like the good salesman he is, reading his audience and recognizing that a message isn’t quite landing as expected. Trump started the feud off as hand-to-hand combat with athletes, a stance that is likely unpopular, or which at the very least shows little upside, and he has now changed the thrust of his argument into a defense of the flag, patriotism, and probably Mom and apple pie, too. (That tweet will land any moment now.) Wrapping oneself in the flag is hardly a novel or risky political maneuver, but it’s a shrewd improvement on feuding with James.
Trump's Red Light Letter to the NFL
This is more or less the same move Trump made after Charlottesville. It took days of agonizing back-and-forths, condemnations by top Republicans, and the dissolution of two business councils, but Trump eventually veered away from defending neo-Nazis, a politically dubious stance, and toward a defense of monuments qua monuments and warnings that they were coming for statues of Jefferson and Washington, a far more politically salubrious view.
The same pattern applies to Trump’s travel ban, which began as a ban on all Muslims entering the U.S. (possibly including citizens, it seemed briefly) and has evolved, through a series of political calculations and court curtailments, into a far more tailored, narrow policy, with the latest iteration announced on Sunday.
It helps that Trump has few fixed ideological principles. He has a gut sense of patriotism and jingo, but beyond that he’s happy to be flexible. Even better, he will claim that he’s never actually changed his position. This is true on health care, where he has rotated among three major positions even while insisting he is totally consistent. After Charlottesville, Trump delivered a thunderous rally in Phoenix in which he denied ever having blamed both sides for violence, and supported the claim by carefully eliding those portions of his remarks.
Rallies offer a great opportunity to watch Trump readjusting in real time. Last summer, he admitted that he often resorted to mentions of his border wall if he felt the energy lagging during a campaign rally. Watch a rally, and see Trump gauging the reaction to certain riffs, and either pivoting away from them if the reaction is poor or expanding and elaborating on them if the audience is feeling it.
Groping toward a position like this, live and on a high wire, is not without its costs. Even when he lands on a position that has majority support, the process of getting there can take a political toll. After Charlottesville, for example, Trump hit his lowest levels of approval yet. Eventually softening his rhetoric won’t erase the stain of having endorsed white supremacy. But the emerging pattern illuminates Trump’s peculiar brand of crisis management. The president never apologizes, and he insists that he stands strong in his views, but one reason he manages to move on from crisis after self-inflicted crisis is his steady maneuvering away from his most incendiary stances and toward more anodyne, or at least more mainstream, ones.


It’s hard to imagine Major League Baseball inviting President Trump to throw out a ceremonial first pitch before any World Series games next month. And he definitely won’t be tossing the coin before the Super Bowl next February. Over the weekend, Trump ignited a firestorm in the sports world by harshly criticizing the NFL for failing to punish players who take a knee during “The Star-Spangled Banner.” Then he withdrew his invitation to Stephen Curry of the NBA champion Golden State Warriors to visit the White House because Curry was “hesitating” about accepting the invitation. Curry’s teammates subsequently announced that none of them would go to the White House but instead would use the team’s February trip to Washington to “celebrate equality, diversity, and inclusion.” On Saturday night, an Oakland A’s catcher Bruce Maxwell became the first MLB player to take a knee during the anthem. On Sunday morning, Trump was back at it, calling on fans to boycott NFL games.
Trump's Shocking Recklessness
Trump’s comments are the precise opposite of Franklin Roosevelt’s famous Green Light Letter to baseball owners in 1942, urging them to keep the game going to boost the nation’s morale during the Second World War: “These players are a definite recreational asset to at least 20,000,000 of their fellow citizens.” On Friday, Trump offered a Red Light: “Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out. He’s fired. He’s FIRED!”
Pro sports have long found patriotism to be good for business. Field-sized flags and taxpayer-funded flyovers are de rigueur for big games. Presidential complicity has been an important part of that arrangement. Presidents since Taft have been lobbing ceremonial first pitches. George W. Bush famously threw out the first pitch of the 2001 World Series, the first after 9/11, wearing a bulletproof vest. The first World Series champion to visit the White House was the 1924 Washington Senators. In recent years, practically every team that’s won a major championship, college or pro, has been invited to meet with the president.
The choreography of the champions-visiting-the-White-House dance had been perfected. The team presents the president with a personalized version of its jersey, usually with his name and the number of his presidency emblazoned on the back. (“Michelle Obama Throws Out a Bunch of Barack’s Old Number 44 Jerseys,” The Onion joked last fall.) The president holds it up, smiles broadly, cracks a few jokes. It was, by most measures, a harmless and mutually beneficial arrangement: The teams and their leagues got good publicity. The president got to bask in the reflected glory of champions.
The presidential-sports complex was perhaps the last fully functioning bipartisan tradition left in Washington. This weekend, Trump blew it up. His short presidency has been marked by many watersheds. But this one feels different. If the president is at war with pro sports, no cow is sacred anymore. Trump v. Sports promises to be a long-running drama.
Of course, Trump’s comments were about race as much as sports. Nearly all the athletes who drew his ire—the anthem kneelers and Steph Curry—are black. The Uppity Negro Athlete is a familiar trope in white America, and one that resonates especially with Trump’s supporters. Playing in the NFL (which is 70 percent black) is, in Trump’s opinion, a “privilege.” Never mind that it’s a privilege that comes with dreadful risks, including the degenerative brain disease CTE.
Black athletes who take a knee are “disrespecting our Flag & Country” and should be fired or suspended, Trump wrote. Here, sadly, Trump stands more closely aligned with historical precedents. After Tommie Smith and John Carlos gave the Black Power salute on the medal stand at the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, Lyndon Johnson refused to invite the U.S. track and field team to the White House. (Obama finally invited Smith and Carlos to the White House in 2016.)
It’s also worth noting Trump’s short, miserable record as the owner of the New Jersey Generals, a United States Football League team. Trump urged his fellow USFL owners to sue the NFL, with disastrous results. Although the NFL was found to be in violation of antitrust laws, the USFL was awarded just three dollars in damages. Perhaps the president still harbors ill will from this embarrassing episode.
Something else Trump said at his rally in Alabama Friday night is getting less attention, but is historically significant in its own right. “The NFL ratings are down massively,” he said. “Because you know today if you hit too hard: 15 yards! Throw him out of the game! They had that last week. I watched for a couple of minutes. Two guys, just really, beautiful tackle. Boom, 15 yards!” Trump, in his scattered way, appeared to be referring to recent rule changes that prohibit blows to the head and protect defenseless pass receivers from dangerous hits. What Trump is lamenting, of course, is what he perceives to be the feminization of pro football. (His supporters sometimes call it “pussification.”)
As a historian and a sports fan, I was reminded by Trump’s comments of one of his predecessors, Theodore Roosevelt. President Roosevelt also believed in “rough games and in rough, manly sports.” But in 1905, troubled by a rash of injuries and even deaths on the gridiron, he ordered the nation’s college presidents to clean up the game or risk having it banned altogether. As a result, dangerous mass formations were banned and the forward pass was legalized. The game was made safer—and more fun to watch.
Trump, whose only exercise appears to be golf (though, to be fair, he plays a lot of it), wants to undo the precedents of his predecessors. He wants make football less safe, its players less diverse, and its celebrations thoroughly partisan. FDR wrote that sports should go on, even in a time of war, because Americans “ought to have a chance for recreation and for taking their minds of their work” and their troubles. Trump’s comments this weekend have taken that refuge away.


Donald Trump, who has a disturbing history of praising brutal dictators, possesses no better than a Twitter troll’s understanding of what it means to be an American patriot. He spent the weekend trolling the NFL over the players protesting police violence during the national anthem, though any other president would have been attending to the millions of fellow citizens suffering in Puerto Rico; and the NFL athletes who defied him by taking a knee Sunday in solidarity with protests against police killings had the high ground, as good students of American history will understand.
When the Founding Fathers affixed their signatures to the Declaration of Independence, the first act of political courage in United States history, the American flag as we know it did not yet exist. And it would be more than a century before the Star Spangled Banner was adopted as the national anthem. Yet the Founders were not deficient in love of country for lacking the Stars and Stripes. In bravely dissolving political bonds with Britain, Thomas Jefferson set forth the premise of the United States, the core ideas around which his countrymen rallied: “that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.”
These original patriots risked death and pledged their sacred honor to those truths, for which they are properly honored, even in spite of their serious failures. Now as then, allegiance to those Founding principles is what defines a patriotic American, not whether he or she stands or kneels while an anthem about the flag is performed.
The anthem and the flag are symbols, interpreted differently by people; in fact, their meaning can change for the same people in different moments (as for the African American who sang the anthem at an NFL game Sunday and kneeled for its last notes).
A person can salute the American flag with tears of affection in his eyes; if he deprives others of life, liberty, or the pursuit of happiness, he is still a bad American.
These men are bad Americans:
Holding the Stars and Stripes aloft changes nothing.
And though I love the Stars and Stripes, regarding it as a symbol of what’s best about the Founding and the ongoing process of perfecting it, and respecting all those who’ve fought honorably beneath it on behalf of liberty, I regard anyone for whom it carries a different meaning as a good American, no matter how different or wrongheaded their perception, if they champion life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
That is the test.
Now consider the athletes kneeling in protest during the national anthem. Anyone paying attention knows their core grievance: the killing of black Americans by police officers. There are people, like Heather Mac Donald of the Manhattan Institute, who will tell you that neither the fact that American police officers kill many more people than their analogues in other countries, nor the fact that African Americans are killed in disproportion to their numbers, is proof that many killings are unjust.
For our purposes, we needn’t even decide that controversy on its merits.
It is enough to know that athletes like Colin Kaepernick and LeBron James disagree; that they earnestly believe many innocents are killed by police officers; that scores of their fellow athletes concur; that millions have earnestly reached the same conclusion.
Most people understand that much. They may be averse to kneeling black athletes, believing them to be disrespecting the flag or the troops (though neither is their intention); but they grant that the athletes really do think black people are being unjustly killed, and that they are kneeling in hopes that laws around policing are reformed.
Consider what that implies. The athletes, kneeling together in public protest of what they believe to be unjust killings, are pledging their honor and risking their fortunes in political protest; their grievance is that the government is failing to secure the rights of Americans; in particular, it is failing to protect their lives and liberty.
They are kneeling in an effort to defend the very core of the Declaration of Independence. No political act is more patriotic than petitioning government for that purpose. If you dislike their tactics, apart from their message, consider them imperfect; I won’t object so long as you then ask yourself if you find it easy to forgive Thomas Jefferson for the imperfection of owning slaves while advancing life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, but hard to forgive young black men for merely kneeling while they try to advance life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness in their time.
That double standard is indefensible.
If Trump honored the principles of those athletes while contesting the underlying facts about policing, it would be possible to see both the president and the protesters as patriots hashing out a disagreement rooted in different takes on a complicated issue. But Trump is the converse of the protesters: Like a man who displays his marriage certificate in an ornate frame on a prominent wall, then parades his mistress in front of his wife and the mother of his children on the slopes of a posh ski resort, Trump adopts the posture of honoring the rectangular cloth bearing red, white, and blue, then denigrates the self-evident truths and principles behind it.
Even as protesters objected that people of color are too often unjustly deprived of life or liberty by police officers, Trump pardoned a sheriff found by a court of law to have violated the constitutional rights of Americans. Over the objections of civil libertarians who understand the connection between property rights and the pursuit of happiness, the Trump administration announced a return to asset forfeiture policies that deprive Americans of money, cars, and houses without due process, when they have not been convicted of any crime, on the mere suspicion of police officers.
Trump profanes that which is sacred in America’s civic tradition as flagrantly as one might expect of a man who went on Howard Stern’s radio show and gave the shock jock permission to call his daughter “a piece of ass.” It isn’t clear that anything is sacred to him; he shows more regard for how the size of his fortune is perceived than for  any ideals.
Those substantive failings are why Trump ought to be anathema to any constitutional conservative, too many of whom credulously fall for his culture-war demagoguery.
They ought to think more carefully about the matter at hand.
Kneeling before the flag is not how I would choose to protest. A nation of 300 million will always be rife with political ignorance; messages will always filter down imperfectly to large cohorts; better to avoid that which is easily misunderstood when a slightly different form of protest would better convey the core message to the masses. The social scientists who write about the effects of seeming to profane sacred symbols and what activates latent authoritarian tendencies across countries are not lying; respectability politics was not used in the civil-rights era out of weakness or folly. The subject of the protests is grave enough to repeat tactics that work best.
But I hope I would’ve knelt in solidarity with my fellow players if I was in the NFL Sunday, because it is far better to get the theatrics wrong in defense of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, than to master theatrics as adeptly as a reality-TV star, then marshal them to intentionally divide Americans against one another by shit-posting on Twitter, all while transgressing against life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
This is my flag and yours:
Trump can say he loves it all he wants; he doesn't deserve it.
A patriot is no more disqualified by kneeling before that flag than one is made by merely standing before it. What matters are the values behind the gestures. Foremost among Americans, Trump disrespects the flag with degraded values and a selfish comportment. If you think I misjudge him, ask yourself, would Trump avoid a war then criticize a POW for getting captured if he was a political rival? (He already did.) If America could be made great again by Trump giving up his Twitter, would he make the sacrifice? (Ha!) Having no reputation for honor, would he risk his fortune, or even dedicate as much as Mitt Romney has tithed, in order to stand up for civil rights? (He never did.) The flag is degraded every time Trump marshals it as a prop. Compared to the kneeling athletes of the NFL, Trump’s patriotism is weak.


MOBILE, Ala.—Outside the Von Braun Center in Huntsville, Alabama, on Friday night, a man stood holding a sign.
Under the word “MOORE,” it read “Make America Great Again” and “Yes,” in big, bold red white and blue letters. Under “STRANGE,” it said “Mitch,” and “No,” in a faint gray scrawl. This was outside a rally where President Trump was scheduled to campaign for one of the candidates in Alabama’s special Senate election—and it wasn’t Roy Moore.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
Like a dubious nutrition label designed to satisfy FDA requirements while convincing shoppers that their granola bars are all-natural, the sign outside the Huntsville rally didn’t exactly lie. It just elided the truth. And it’s a perfect snapshot of the mindset in Alabama right now, where Moore, the ultra-conservative judge made famous by his crusade to keep a monument to the 10 Commandments displayed at the state’s supreme court, is running against Senator Luther Strange in the race to fill Attorney General Jeff Sessions’s old seat, for which Strange was appointed as the seat-warmer. Strange, a remarkably tall but otherwise not particularly distinctive former state attorney general, is the establishment pick.
The election has become a showcase for high levels of cognitive dissonance. It’s an election in which the candidate who is benefiting from $10 million from a Mitch McConnell-aligned super PAC promises from the rally stage to keep McConnell in check in the Senate. Where Trump, there to campaign for said candidate, muses aloud about whether he’s made a mistake in doing so and promises to campaign for the opponent in the general election, should he win. Where a reporter for Breitbart, which has gone all-in to support Moore, alleged he was denied entry to the Trump-Strange rally. Where the president’s former chief strategist Steve Bannon, weeks after leaving the White House, is making a rare public appearance at a Moore event on Monday after weeks of using Breitbart as a pro-Moore, anti-Strange political instrument.
Most of all, this election is a test of Trump’s bond with his own base, which has been key in safeguarding him within his own party as his presidency’s troubles mount and which has so far stuck by him despite his failure to deliver on several key campaign promises. Alabama, where Trump won the Republican primary by 23 points, offers a useful locale for this proxy war. Who is more influential with Trump’s base: Trump himself, or the constellation of powerful voices on the right to whom base voters listen and who are supporting Moore? Is the Trump movement about Trump the man, or is it about something else?
Moore supporters are reconciling the discrepancy by arguing that Trump has been the recipient of bad advice and emphasizing that they still support him despite this one disagreement.
“Bannon versus Trump is the sexy media narrative, but it’s actually interesting because it’s not just Bannon, it’s Sean Hannity, it’s Laura Ingraham, it’s Mike Huckabee,” said one Bannon ally. “It’s Eagle Forum’s Ed Martin, it’s a whole host of these folks who were the president’s biggest national supporters and remain his biggest national supporters.”
“People are trying to paint this as Steve turning on the president somehow, when in reality it’s perfectly normal to be able to completely support someone but have disagreements on endorsements,” the ally said. “I think Trump still has influence but at the end of the day I think people are really passionate about Judge Moore.”
This race isn’t really about policy or even ideology. It’s turned into a referendum on the Republican establishment—as well as, of course, a fight over internal Alabama issues and politics. Moore supporters see Strange as a tool of the establishment and are suspicious of the way he was appointed by former Alabama Governor Robert Bentley, who left office amid scandal over an affair with a staffer and an investigation into alleged misuse of state funds. They don’t think Strange stands for anything.
Moore’s beliefs, on the other hand, are vehement and well-known, on everything from homosexuality (he said in a 2005 interview that “homosexual conduct” should be illegal) to former President Obama’s place of birth (as recently as December, he was still trafficking in birtherism). And, of course, the 10 Commandments saga, which lost him his judgeship twice, raised his profile among grassroots conservatives nationwide, and which plenty of Moore voters alluded to when I asked them why they like him so much.
The enthusiasm gap, at least anecdotally, is substantial. A few hundred Moore fans gathered in a converted railway station in Montgomery on Thursday night for an event hosted by Great America Alliance, a super PAC aligned with Bannon which has been running ads against Strange in the race. The evening began with a watch party for the Moore versus Strange debate that night, which was done Lincoln-Douglas style and in which Strange leaned heavily on his endorsement by Trump, mentioning it as much as possible. The special guests were to include Moore himself, Sarah Palin, and Sebastian Gorka, the former White House official and frequent Fox News commentator who was fired from—or quit, according to him— the administration last month.
Both Gorka and Palin are to varying degrees political celebrities—Gorka on the upswing of his notoriety, Palin on the downswing—and the crowd treated them as such. If you do a lot of Fox News, you become famous among the Republican base, and so has Gorka, as incongruous as his honeyed English accent may be at a  rally in the deep South. His latest move after leaving the White House has been to join the MAGA Coalition, a new political group whose founder has spread Pizzagate and Seth Rich conspiracies.
“On the one hand, you have a man who’s proven through his life his dedication to this nation and to the values upon which this republic was founded,” Gorka said of Moore. He then intoned, darkly: “On the other side, a man endorsed by Mitch McConnell. Enough said.”
Palin, more so than Gorka, directly alluded to Trump’s involvement in the race. Like many Trump supporters on the opposite side of this race from him, Palin spoke more in sorrow than in anger about Trump.
The swamp, Palin warned, has “hijacked this presidency.”
“The swamp is trying to steal the victory that we worked so long and hard for—to steal the victory that a lot of us put our reputations on the line for,” Palin said, pointedly. “We voted to put America first, not the political elite that had ignored us for decades.”
Texas Representative Louie Gohmert also located the blame elsewhere. Trump has “gotten some bad advice,” he said. “But he's a faster learner than anybody I’ve ever seen."
This idea—that Trump is being misled by malign influencers and that’s the reason why he’s backing Strange—has gained traction among voters I spoke with.
“Donald Trump has to rely on other people to give him information,” said John Sowell, 69, at the Moore rally in Montgomery. “He hasn’t researched Luther Strange like he should have.”
“I think that’s possible,” said Stan Sinson, 56, also at the Montgomery rally, on whether Trump is getting bad advice, like Gohmert said. “Or he’s been promised something from Mitch McConnell that probably will never happen.”
To a man (or woman), though, Moore voters said they like the president as much as ever.
“I love everything Trump’s doing. He can’t do anything wrong to me,” said Martha D. Shiver, 78, a local Republican activist in Montgomery. “I was disappointed that he didn’t support Moore but I still think a lot of him.”
On the flip side of the race, the very next night in Huntsville, some Strange voters told me they had been on the fence but Trump’s appearance helped them make up their minds.
“I think actually both are good candidates,” said Mike Ford, 56, outside the rally. “Just the fact that Strange, because he is supported by President Trump and did such a good job for President Trump so far … I did it because I really support the president.”
“I have to believe Trump,” said David Newton, 64, who stood outside the Huntsville rally afterwards watching some protesters nearby. “I have to believe that he’s picking the right guy and go that way, because he’s usually right.”
Trump’s rally Friday in Huntsville was a classic of the genre, a long (especially long—over 80 minutes), discursive playing of the hits plus the addition of a new controversy to keep things lively—this time, an attack on black NFL players who have taken the knee during the national anthem to protest racism and police brutality. Trump did devote large portions of the speech to Strange, lauding him for helping him on Obamacare repeal and ribbing him for his size. Trump also criticized some of his people who have backed Moore, a not particularly veiled dig at HUD Secretary Ben Carson who announced his support for Moore on Friday, and at Bannon, who Trump appeared to allude to specifically. “May have to get rid of a few of them,” Trump said of employees of his backing Moore. “I’ve already gotten rid of a few of them.”
But Trump’s endorsement came with caveats.
“I’ll be honest, I might have made a mistake,” Trump mused. Trump decried the idea that he might be blamed for Strange’s loss in the media, and promised to campaign for Moore if Moore wins the primary, while also doubting that Moore could win against the Democratic candidate in the general.
So why is Trump risking political capital on Strange if he thinks it’s all a mistake?
“POTUS really didn’t want to get involved in the primary,” one source close to Trump said in a text message. “He did first as a favor to Luther who swore he would support the POTUS’s agenda. And secondly as a final outreach to McConnell.”
“This is a referendum on McConnell and establishment,” the source said. “The base wants the person who will support Trump more, and not side with McConnell.” In Alabama, this source said, McConnell’s backing is now a “kiss of death.”
And the bitter recriminations are only beginning.
“This race is really the start of the 2018 cycle and I think it’s really the inflection point of the 2018 cycle,” the Bannon ally said. “It’s gonna decide what happens. This race is gonna open the floodgates to more insurgent candidates or it’s gonna mean the establishment is gonna triple down on their tactics.”
Nearly five hours south of Huntsville, Roy Moore held one of his final campaign events of the race. A family in the tiny hamlet of McIntosh has hosted a bluegrass and gospel singing annually for years. Handwritten signs on trees informed attendees that there was to be no profanity, alcohol, smoking or pets and that the hosts were not responsible for accidents. A couple hundred people from the area sitting on camp chairs faced a small stage illuminated by string lights hung between trees, and huge trays of pulled pork, egg salad, and other Southern treats were laid out on tables nearby.
Only a few national political reporters had made the long drive down from the north of the state. Breitbart, on the other hand, had sent not one, but three. “I just like bluegrass,” joked Breitbart London editor Raheem Kassam, by way of explanation. Washington editor Matt Boyle has been camped out in Alabama for days, his second trip to the state this month. Jeff Poor, a Tallahassee-based Breitbart reporter who said he had initially been barred from entering the Trump rally on Friday, was also in attendance. (In recently leaked Slack conversations, Boyle told Breitbart staffers that “the only story that matters” right now is Alabama and that everyone would henceforth be working on it.)
Moore’s friend Dean Young, who launched an unsuccessful bid for Congress last year, sported a red Make America Great Again hat and worked the crowd.
“Any normal candidate would have been squashed like a bug” by the establishment money being poured into Alabama, Young told reporters. “If they can beat Judge Moore they can beat anybody, anywhere, anytime.”
“I think the president makes a difference but I also think the people of Alabama have watched Judge Moore for 25 years and they know that he’s honest, they know that he’s dependable, they know if he says he’s gonna do something he’ll do it,” Young said. “They know he’ll stand up for his god, and that would be the Christian god if anybody out there in the world is wondering which god.”
Young said he appreciates the president’s being “honest with the people of Alabama, honest with the nation” that he “may have made the wrong decision backing Luther Strange.”
Moore showed up around an hour into the event after a few bands played. He took the stage after doing an interview with One America News and after an introduction by Young, who called for a round of applause both for Moore and for the president.
Unlike Young, Moore avoided mention of the president, focusing his message on the establishment out to get him.
"This has been a very hard time, for me, for my family, for my wife to suffer through $30 million, according to MSNBC, of negative ads, attacks, things that were untrue, simply because they want to buy the people of Alabama," Moore said. “Well, I’m here to tell you the people of Alabama are not for sale.”
In the audience sat Jeff Trawick, 52, who drove up from Mobile about 45 minutes away to see Moore.
Trawick avidly listens to American Family Radio, a Christian conservative station out of Mississippi, and watches Fox News and reads a wide variety of websites, including Breitbart. He said he was surprised Trump had gotten involved in the primary when people like Phil Robertson, Steve Bannon, and Sean Hannity were supporting Moore.
“That’s who I listen to,” he said.
But Trawick, who’s getting “two phone calls a day and two pamphlets in the mail a day for Strange,” doesn’t hold it against Trump or the NRA, of which he is a member and which has also endorsed Strange. “I can’t help what they support,” he said.
“It ain’t that Trump ain’t doing his job, it’s that Congress ain’t doing its job,” he said.
“He can support whoever he wants to,” Trawick said of Trump.  “Just because I voted for him doesn’t mean I’m gonna agree with everything he says … He’s a billionaire from New York, I’m not gonna agree with everything that stands for.”


“There’s no such thing as a Republican judge or a Democratic judge,” Neil Gorsuch told the nation during his confirmation hearings. “We just have judges in this country.”
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell told reporters in July that he doesn’t quite agree. Asked to explain to his party’s base the Senate’s lack of legislative accomplishment, McConnell said, “Well, we have a new Supreme Court justice.”
Gorsuch hasn’t commented on that statement. But he was quite happy to appear with McConnell Thursday on what veteran Supreme Court correspondent Kenneth Jost called a “victory lap” to the University of Louisville and University of Kentucky law schools last week.
“When President Trump sent his nomination to the Senate earlier this year, as some of you know, the friends of mine in the audience, I could not have been happier,” McConnell told the audience before Gorsuch delivered a speech on his “originalist” philosophy of judging.  “I don’t believe in red judges or blue judges,” Gorsuch said with a straight face. “We wear black.”
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
American law and justice have always suffered from a kind of cognitive dissonance. The ideal of even-handed justice is widely hailed; but everyone at some level knows that, if law in fact has two hands, it holds politics in both of them.
“Scarcely any political question arises in the United States that is not resolved, sooner or later, into a judicial question,” Alexis de Tocqueville wrote in 1835. And many judicial questions resolve, quickly, into partisan disputes.
That dissonance, however, seems particularly marked this fall. Not since the New Deal crisis of 1937 has the Supreme Court been so clearly revealed to the world as fully enmeshed in the rankest partisan politics. There seems little prospect of disengagement any time soon.
The impudent glee of Gorsuch’s supporters may account for the leaden feeling that assails me as the first Monday in October, which opens the Supreme Court’s 2017-18 term, bears down upon us. This term may resolve some crucial questions about the future of democracy in the era of authoritarianism: the role of race and religion in American immigration law; the role of partisan line-drawing in American legislative elections; the remaining scope of the battered right to vote; the depth of the law’s commitment to marriage equality and LGBT rights.
The Supreme Court that will address these issues, however, seems to me a different creature than the Court I have alternately loved, and hated, for nearly half a century.
It has been a long glide path from the exalted place the Court once held in the American mind; but we may at last have arrived at a place where it is simply another cog in the partisan-industrial complex, as “neutral” as the White House press room or the Democratic Governors Conference. I find myself fighting the impulse to identify the justice, like a member of Congress, with a partisan parenthetical on first reference.
As a Southerner growing up in the autumn of segregation, many of my first childhood memories were of adults discussing the Court. Many white adults hated and feared it; many African Americans revered it. But nobody thought of the Court as a party instrument. Some judicial liberals—such as Chief Justice Earl Warren and Justice William Brennan—were Republican appointees; some conservatives—like Justices Felix Frankfurter and Byron White—had been chosen by Democratic presidents. The Court’s decisions were sometimes exhilarating (I think of New York Times v. Sullivan, the key press-freedom case, and United States v. United States District Court, which rebuked President Richard Nixon’s claim of unlimited power to order warrantless wiretaps), and they were sometimes appalling (Buckley v. Valeo, the first campaign-finance case, started the law on the road to Citizens United; McCleskey v. Kemp concluded that overwhelming statistical evidence of racist application was simply irrelevant to the law of the death penalty).
None of them seemed like the triumph of one party.
Everyone knows, and always has known, that politics plays a role in shaping the courts. The old street definition of a federal judge is a lawyer who knows a politician. During the New Deal, the liberal wing of the Democratic party, led by President Franklin Roosevelt, mounted a sharp attack on the Court’s independence. Roosevelt proposed a “Judicial Procedures Reform” bill that, he said, would “infuse new blood into all our Courts,” allowing him to appoint up to six new “judges who will bring to the Courts a present-day sense of the Constitution.”
The Roosevelt plan was rejected by Congress, and its failure marked a sharp turn in FDR’s power in Congress. Though he reshaped the courts by appointment, never again did he, or any other political leader, seek the power to remake the institution itself along partisan lines.
Never, that is, until February 16, 2016, the day Justice Antonin Scalia died in his sleep at a remote Texas ranch. Less than an hour after Scalia’s death was announced—literally before the body could be moved—McConnell had announced a new rule. The sitting president could not name a justice, because, in essence, the ownership of the seat was to be decided by popular vote. The majority party in the Senate owned the seat; qualifications, and the Constitution, were not factors.
Even after McConnell’s challenge, Barack Obama responded to the vacancy as a president facing an adverse Senate should—with compromise and conciliation. After careful thought, he nominated a moderate justice whom the Senate’s leading Republican constitutional thinker, Senator Orrin Hatch, had called a “consensus nominee” and had pledged to support.
That did not matter. The identity of the judge was not important; a Supreme Court justice was a creature of the party in the White House, and would be solely judged on that basis. A nominee would be judged by party credentials, just like the doorkeeper of the House.
We can debate about stages on the journey—the Bork nomination, Bush v. Gore, the filibusters of Bush nominees, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s improper comments on the presidential election—but with McConnell’s announcement, and the Republican caucuses compliance in what they knew was grievously wrong, judicial nominations reached the last stop on the highway to hell.
And waiting there was Justice Neil Gorsuch.
The history is not Gorsuch’s fault. But having decided to accept a nomination so befouled by politics, Gorsuch might have displayed a sense of humility—an awareness that he took the office in a manner that millions of Americans would regard as illegitimate. It might have been seemly not to appear with McConnell; it might be even seemlier to refuse a speaking engagement at the Trump Hotel. That kind of reticence, however, is apparently not to be expected from our newest justice. He will not even pretend to care about how the losers in the process see either him, or the Court.
Autumn is always a time of loss. But this fall I feel particularly bereft. Much of my life has been involved in law, the Constitution, and the courts. A generation hence, what will be left of any of them?


Updated at 10:00 p.m. ET
The Trump administration rolled out a new version of its controversial travel ban on Sunday, permanently restricting entry into the United States from eight countries just hours before part of the previous ban would have expired.
Five of the affected countries—Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria, and Yemen—fell under the previous ban. The new order adds new barriers to entry for nationals of Chad, Venezuela, and North Korea to the list of restrictions. Of them, only Chad is a Muslim-majority nation like the others targeted in the original ban. Sudan, which was covered under both previous iterations of the ban, was not included in the latest edition.
“Making America safe is my number one priority,” President Trump wrote on Twitter shortly after announcing the new restrictions. “We will not admit those into the country we cannot safely vet.”
Restrictions are tailored differently for each country, a departure from previous versions of the ban. Nationals from most of the countries will be largely denied immigrant and some non-immigrant visas going forward. For Venezuela, the impact will likely be minimal: The order only suspends tourist and business visas for some Venezuelan security officials and their families. At the same time, it bars U.S. entry by virtually all North Koreans and Syrians who don’t fall within a general set of exceptions, like travelers holding diplomatic visas or those granted asylum.
Critics of the travel bans said the new additions described the order as a third version of the Muslim ban Trump proposed during the campaign.“Six of President Trump's targeted countries are Muslim,” Anthony Romero, the ACLU’s executive director, said in a statement. “The fact  that Trump has added North Korea—with few visitors to the U.S.—and a few government officials from Venezuela doesn't obfuscate the real fact that the administration's order is still a Muslim ban.”
The order doesn’t apply to lawful permanent residents or any foreign national currently within the United States. In addition to exemptions for travelers with dual nationality and refugees already admitted into the U.S., it also allows consular officials to waive restrictions for Canadian permanent residents, children and adoptees, travelers seeking medical care, students and workers with significant U.S. ties who happened to be outside the country when the order was enacted, among others.
The new restrictions for the eight countries came hours before a key portion of President Trump’s previous version of the ban was set to expire. Under that iteration, the State Department suspended visa applications from six Muslim-majority countries for 90 days while the federal government conducted a worldwide review of border-security standards. The 90-day clock began in late June when the U.S. Supreme Court allowed a modified version of the ban to go into force.
Only the Supreme Court Can Save Trump's Travel Ban Now
On a conference call with reporters on Friday, administration officials said they developed the new standards as part of the review, and in close coordination with countries around the world. Some, but not all, of the measures are borrowed from existing programs like the Visa Waiver Program, which allows visa-free entry into the country for 90 days from the European Union and other close U.S. allies. Other restrictions are aimed at potential terrorist threats from countries lacking either the will or the ability to screen prospective travelers, the officials said.
According to the order, countries had to meet a “baseline” of information sharing with the U.S. to avoid restrictions: identity verification for prospective travelers, access to criminal-history records, and risk assessments of travelers’ potential risk to public safety. Seven of the restricted countries did not meet the baseline; Somalia, the eighth, met it but also had “significant identity-management deficiencies.”
In addition, the order said Iraq “did not meet the baseline,” but added that restrictions like those faced by other countries “are not warranted,” citing close relations with the Iraqi government and a large U.S. government presence there. Iraqi leaders expressed outrage when the country fell under the first version of the travel ban in January; a diplomatic campaign by Baghdad led to its removal from the second iteration in March.
The new rules are the product of a joint effort between the State, Justice, and Homeland Security Departments, as well as the Trump White House. Going into the weekend there were few clues about what the restrictions would look like.
On the Friday call, officials from the State, Justice, and Homeland Security Departments declined to offer any details about their recommendations to Trump, when exactly the new parameters would be announced, and the countries that would be affected. They also did not comment on how the restrictions would affect—or be affected by—the ongoing legal struggles surrounding earlier versions of the ban.
The updated ban comes roughly nine months after the administration first attempted to constrict foreign entry. The original executive order, released in January, suspended U.S. entry for refugees worldwide and virtually all foreign nationals from seven Muslim-majority countries, including travelers on student and work visas. Some green-card holders were also briefly barred from re-entering the United States until John Kelly, the secretary of homeland security at the time, personally intervened.
Chaos ensued. The order’s sudden rollout—late on a Friday night without any warning—led to turmoil at major airports across the country. Some travelers found themselves barred from entering the United States mid-flight. Protesters and lawyers soon gathered at transit hubs like Washington’s Dulles and New York City’s John F. Kennedy airports to aid those who had been stranded. By the following Monday, multiple federal judges had temporarily blocked the ban’s enforcement while legal challenges went forward.
After the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled against the original ban’s constitutionality in February, the Trump administration said it would rewrite the order. Trump himself vented on Twitter about judges who ruled against the ban, claiming the judiciary would be responsible if another terrorist attack occurred. The second version barred new visa applications instead of U.S. entry, removed Iraq from the list of countries affected, and added numerous exceptions to its restrictions. It also dropped the indefinite ban on Syrian refugees while suspending new refugee admissions for 120 days.
But shortly before the revised order was set to go into effect in March, federal courts sided with immigrant-rights groups who asked them to halt its implementation. The Fourth and Ninth Circuits eventually forbid its core provisions from going into force in the months that followed. In reaction, the administration vowed to appeal the rulings to the Supreme Court. The justices agreed to hear the case on the last day of the 2016-2017 term in June and set oral arguments for when the Court reconvenes next month. Until then, the Court allowed most of the visa-application restrictions and the refugee-admissions freeze to go into effect.
It’s unclear what will happen next for the pending Supreme Court case, Trump v. International Refugee Assistance Project, now that the 90-day period has passed. On Sunday night, the Justice Department asked the Supreme Court to request additional briefs from both sides of the case on what steps to take next. Oral arguments in the case are currently scheduled for October 10.


During last year’s presidential campaign, I conducted a running feature called the “Trump Time Capsule.” Its purpose was to chronicle the things Donald Trump said or did that were entirely outside the range of previous presidents or major-party nominees. This, in turn, was meant to lay down a record of what was known about this man, as the electorate decided whether to elevate him to presidential power.
By the time the campaign ended, the series had reached installment #152. Who Donald Trump was, and is, was absolutely clear by election day: ignorant, biased, narcissistic, dishonest. As Ta-Nehisi Coates argues in our current issue, everyone who voted for him did so with ample evidence about the kind of person they considered the “better” choice, or even as a minimally acceptable choice for president. Almost nothing Trump has done since taking office should come as a surprise.
But numerous things Trump has done are objectively shocking, in the sense of further violating the norms of the office and the historic standards the previous 44 incumbents have observed. (Among the things the Trump era has taught us: the difference in nuance between shock and surprise. Donald Trump in office has delivered a nonstop series of shocks, no one of which can really be considered a surprise.)
The past 36 hours have brought two dramatic and destructive illustrations, in which Trump has recklessly done great damage in areas where even the most flawed of his predecessors felt some constraint. They are his unmistakably race-baiting attacks on athletes as widely popular as Steph Curry and LeBron James, and as controversial as Colin Kaepernick, who have in common the fact of being black; and his unmistakably war-mongering latest set of tweeted insult-threats against North Korea and its leader.
* * *
Race Baiting
Since everyone from the sports pages to the political pages is pointing out what’s wrong with Trump’s “get that son of a bitch off the field!” comments in Alabama, obviously aimed at Kaepernick, and his follow-up Twitter war with Steph Curry, let me focus on what is unusual about it.
Other presidents have faced exactly this challenge: that of successful African American athletes using the leverage of their sporting prominence to make political points. In some cases, the athletes have been much more directly critical of a sitting president than Colin Kaepernick has been of Donald Trump. (Remember that Kaepernick began his kneeling-protests back in the summer of 2016, when he was calling attention to police violence against African Americans and when Donald Trump was still an implausible long-shot to become president.) But no previous president responded in the ugly and divisive way Trump has chosen.
Conveniently, the most prominent modern examples include presidents not otherwise thought to be models of restraint or of bringing the country together: Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon. Consider the parallels between temptations facing them, and what Trump has done:

* * *
2. War mongering. What Trump tweeted last night about North Korea is shocking, even for him:
Just heard Foreign Minister of North Korea speak at U.N. If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won't be around much longer!
Every American president since Harry Truman has had at his command the power to kill countless millions of people in a nuclear exchange. Every one of those presidents except Donald Trump has borne this knowledge as a matter of the utmost gravity. Living with this responsibility is one reason presidents look 20 years older when they leave office than when they arrived.
For a man who could decide to use nuclear weapons to speak about them in a cavalier and bullying tone is obscene. For professional wrestling, fine; for matters of worldwide life and death, no.
To do so in threatening a dimly-understood foreign regime whose legitimacy is based on facing down bigger foreign enemies—this is reckless on a scale with no precedent I can think of in modern presidential posturing. (John F. Kennedy made a bad mistake in approving the Bay of Pigs invasion, but he soon rued that as the naivete of a new president. Lyndon Johnson made a disastrous mistake in step-by-step deepening America’s commitment to Vietnam, but he did not boast about it, Trump-style. George W. Bush made a catastrophic mistake in deciding to invade Iraq—but it was recklessness of a different nature than courting a nuclear showdown via Twitter.) If you’re in doubt about the folly of Trump’s dares to Kim Jong Un, please read Mark Bowden’s comprehensive story in The Atlantic, or Evan Osnos’s account of a recent visit to North Korea in The New Yorker.
Many of Trump’s tweets have been outrageous and insulting. This one crosses the threshold into being actually dangerous.
* * *
During the campaign, I argued that the greatest responsibility for Trump’s rise lay not with the man himself—he is who he is, he can’t help it—but with those Republicans who know what he is, and continue to look the other way. Their responsibility for the carnage of this era increases by the day, and has grown by quite a lot this weekend.


President Trump apparently slept on it overnight and woke up early on Sunday morning thinking: “Yes, I will fight a cultural war against black athletes.”
In two Sunday morning tweets, Trump urged a boycott of the National Football League until owners punished players who refused to stand for the national anthem, in protest of police brutality and racial injustice—capping a weekend of taunting and trash-talking that began at his Alabama rally Friday night. He’s now created a situation in which it will seem almost unmanly for black athletes, and not only football players, not to take a knee during the anthem. If they stand for the anthem, they will seem to do so at Trump’s command. How can they not  resist?
Trump had another of his bad weeks last week. His secretary of health and human services was exposed for chartering expensive private jets at public expense. His Environmental Protection Agency director is charging the Treasury for a security detail big enough to impress Turkish President Recep Erdogan. One more attempt to repeal Obamacare disintegrated in the Senate. A star basketball player publicly refused an invitation to the White House. The FBI obtained a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act warrant for Trump’s onetime campaign chair, Paul Manafort, while the campaign was still underway, CNN reported last week.  
When in trouble, Trump habitually falls back on the same trick: enflaming conservative cultural grievances. American flags, Confederate memorials—anything will do. You would not know it from the Twitter debate, but Trump shrewdly seized the majority side of the Robert E. Lee statue debate: An August YouGov poll found that only about one-quarter of the country agrees that such monuments should be seen as symbols of racism. The polling on standing for the national anthem will presumably be even more lopsided.
Trump, the least popular first-year president in the history of polling, is always scouting for opportunities to depict his opponents—in every other way this country’s dominant mainstream—as somehow un-American. Smarting from his popular-vote loss in the November 2016 election, Trump later that month tweeted a demand that flag-burners forfeit their U.S. citizenship. He seems to have hoped that he could goad some Trump opponents into actually committing such a burning for the cameras. Unfortunately for him, only a tiny group of oddballs obliged.
But now, in more trouble, Trump is adding extra force to his goading. He’s hoping to provoke a dynamic in which many of the country’s most famous and most visible African Americans appear en masse to disrespect the anthem and the flag. In so doing, they will fortify Trump’s own claim that these symbols properly belong to him and to his supporters.
Nobody will dispute that all Americans, including football players of course, have a right to do whatever they please during the anthem: kneel, sit, or stare dazedly into space—the latter being Trump’s own preferred stance during the ritual. But people exercising their rights in spectacularly televised ways would be wise to consider their actions carefully. What are they communicating? What are they accomplishing?
And they should consider this: The background fact to all Trump’s noisy nationalism is that this administration is more shot through with disloyalty, subversion, and hostile foreign influence than any administration in recent history. The president’s son at a minimum welcomed the prospect of cooperation with Russian spies in the 2016 election—and possibly did much worse than that. The president’s personal finances appear to have been rescued in the crisis of 2008 by an infusion of funds from Russian sources. The president’s campaign chair and his first national-security adviser both took pay from Kremlin-linked sources in amounts still not yet fully disclosed.
As yet, there has been no showing of any illegality. But what is known suffices to wipe away any Trump claim to uphold the flag and the republic against others.
Why play ball with him? Why give him what he wants?
In the Civil War anthem, “Marching Through Georgia,” the stars and stripes is described as “the flag that makes you free”—but for most of the previous three-quarters of a century, it was anything but. It was the flag that flew over slave ships until 1808, the flag under which federal marshals enforced this country’s fugitive slave acts before the Civil War. Only the Civil War changed that flag’s character. Indeed, as Adam Goodheart observes in his remarkable history, 1861: The Civil War Awakening, it was not until the Civil War that the habit spread of flying the flag over private as well as federal buildings. It exacted hideous quantities of blood, from black and white soldiers alike, to wash that flag clean of its former meanings.
Maybe the washing has never been completed, and possibly it never will be. But that’s no reason to resign the flag and the anthem to the president. Colin Kaepernick has better right to that flag and anthem than Donald Trump. Why concede that right? Assert it.
Don’t take the knee. Stand for the flag; hand on heart for the anthem—and then put your signature to the demand that this least American of administrations be investigated down to its bottomest murk and filth.


In April, President Trump ordered Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke to review more than two dozen national monuments, arguing that the designation of sites under previous administrations had gotten out of hand. Months later, Zinke’s recommendations, detailed in a leaked memo delivered to the White House, have sparked concern among local officials and environmental groups, prompting some to describe the proposals as “unprecedented.”
Obama Conserved 1.3 Million Acres in Utah—Can Trump Undo That?
Zinke recommended changes to 10 national monuments, including Utah’s Grand Staircase-Escalante and Nevada’s Gold Butte. His proposals range from lifting restrictions on activities like commercial fishing to shrinking the parameters of at least four of the sites.
The contents of the report were made public a week shy of the 111th anniversary of America’s very first national monument designation. On September 24, 1906, Theodore Roosevelt deemed an area known as Devils Tower, Wyoming, worthy of preservation under the Antiquities Act. That act, passed the same year, gives presidents the power to protect “objects of historic and scientific interest.”
Devils Tower—a tan-colored monster of a rock, looming 1,267 feet above another thousand acres of open land—was just one of the 18 national monuments Roosevelt established during his presidency. Today, the country boasts more than 150 in total, from Governors Island in New York to Death Valley in California. Only three presidents since Roosevelt—Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, and George H. W. Bush—opted not to designate any during their terms. Never before, though, has a president attempted to scale down monuments to the extent that Zinke proposes.
Throughout history, a few monuments have become the source of political conflict. In 1915, for example, Woodrow Wilson cut down the boundaries of Roosevelt’s designation of Mount Olympus National Monument, much to environmentalists’ dismay. This past April, Trump called former President Barack Obama’s designation of Bears Ears National Monument, an area of more than 1.3 million acres in Utah, an “egregious abuse of power.”
In his assessment, Zinke proposed shrinking Bears Ears from 1.35 million acres to roughly 160,000, saying changes would “provide a much-needed change for the local communities who border and rely on these lands.” Still, environmental groups have pledged to fight Trump in court if he follows through on the recommendations.
I spoke with Mark Squillace, a law professor at the University of Colorado Boulder and former assistant to Bruce Babbitt, the interior secretary under President Bill Clinton, about the unprecedented territory the Trump administration has entered into—and the history behind a significant presidential power. Our conversation has been lightly edited for length and clarity.
Lena Felton: Let’s start at the very beginning and go back to the Antiquities Act of 1906. What was the significance of Congress granting the president sole power to protect sites?
Mark Squillace: I think it’s fair to say that people weren’t exactly sure about the breadth of the Antiquities Act when it was passed, but there clearly was a desire on the part of some of the people that were pushing this legislation to have more expansive authority than the narrow protection of small sites around our archeological digs. There clearly was some interest in kind of a broader type of legislation.
A large part of the reason for the Antiquities Act was to allow the president to act quickly to protect land. We can get into this later, but the big debate right now is whether it’s a one-way protection or whether the president somehow has the authority to undo protections made by previous presidents. If you think about the fundamental reason for the law in allowing quick protection before somebody can come in and undermine those protections by building roads, by locating mining claims, by logging timber, whatever they might want to do—you need to act quickly, and you need to do it in a way that’s protective.
Felton: Can you talk a bit about Theodore Roosevelt’s role in being the first president to use that power?
Squillace: The designation and decision that Roosevelt makes in 1908 to proclaim the Grand Canyon National Monument was one of the things that really changed the history of the Antiquities Act going forward. The Grand Canyon National Monument in 1908 was over 800,000 acres when it was designated, and it fairly soon thereafter led to a lawsuit by a guy by the name of Ralph Henry Cameron, who had located some mining claims around the Grand Canyon.
This, the famous case under the Antiquities Act, is called Cameron vs. United States, in which Cameron basically makes this argument that the Antiquities Act was a law designed to protect these small ancient sites with archeological finds, that it was not meant to protect these large landscapes, if you will. And the Supreme Court, in a rather short opinion … simply says that the Grand Canyon is one of the greatest eroded canyons in the United States, if not the world. It essentially says that clearly it’s an “object of scientific interest,” and says the Court has no problem confirming the designation of the Grand Canyon under the Antiquities Act. It seems to me that the Cameron case is going to be extremely important going forward, particularly if the Trump administration decides to pull back on some of the monuments that were previously declared.
Felton: Besides Roosevelt, did any other presidents use their power to designate national monuments in far-reaching ways?
Squillace: It’s remarkable, a number of Republican presidents [have]. It has been a bipartisan thing to designate national monuments. Herbert Hoover designated a bunch, Calvin Coolidge designated a bunch. Franklin Roosevelt, of course, designated quite a few. Particularly in the first half of the 20th century, there was really a lot of movement to try to protect lands that were deemed to be worthy of conservation.
We also end up getting this large number of some fairly substantial and impressive monuments towards the end of the Clinton administration. I don’t have the number off the top of my head, but it was something over 20 monuments that ultimately are designated or expanded by President Clinton. Until Barack Obama, at least, it was clearly the most aggressive and ambitious expansion of our national-monument system. … And, you know, George W. Bush, largely at the behest of his wife—Laura Bush was particularly a fan of the marine monuments, and persuaded her husband, I think, to push for the designation of a couple of large marine monuments off the coast of Hawaii. Obama took a cue from that work, and also designated a couple of big marine monuments that seem to be at least somewhat at risk from the recommendations that are coming [from] Secretary Zinke right now.
Felton: There were three presidents—Nixon, Reagan, and George H.W. Bush—who chose not to designate national monuments. Why might a president opt out?
Squillace: Well I think that presidents have different sorts of connections and attachments to the land. Richard Nixon never designated a monument—he was not really known as an outdoorsman in the way that some others are. As I said, many conservative presidents had no problem going forward and designating national monuments. I think it partly just depended on their relationship to the land, their interest in outdoors activities, and perhaps the people they surrounded themselves with—the secretaries of the interior, and the other people that were advising them about particular monuments.
Felton: That’s a good segue to the present. What do we know about this president’s—and Interior Secretary Zinke’s—approach to national monuments?
Squillace: Here we are today, Barack Obama having designated quite a few important national monuments, many large—of course the one that seems to get most of the attention is Bears Ears, but there are quite a few other significant monuments. And now we have a new secretary of the interior and a new president who seem interested in trying to pull back on some of these. For lawyers and academics like myself, the interesting question that we’re all trying to deal with is whether or not the president actually has the authority to do this.
[Zinke] seems to be taking this position that it’s wrong for the president to close off lands to what I think he describes as “traditional uses” of the land—that this should be exercised and the law should be construed very narrowly so the president doesn’t have this broad power to set aside these large landscapes. I think economics is part of the argument. But the economics argument is particularly odd, I think, because all the evidence we have suggests that national monuments stimulate local economies, they don’t harm local economies.
So the question is: What’s going on here with Zinke and his push to undermine some of these monuments? Is it a good thing or a bad thing that Zinke’s trying to do this? What I would say is, if we allow any future president to come in and second guess the choices that were made by prior presidents, the Antiquities Act is going to become this sort of whipping boy for every president that comes in. You can almost imagine if Trump decides to shrink Bears Ears and is able to get away with it, for example, the next president comes in and decides to reverse that decision and redesignate the land as a national monument—and it just sort of bounces back and forth, depending on the presidents and their predilection and whether they support the protection of public lands or mineral development or some other kind of use of the land. I just don’t think the law can work if it becomes this punching bag among presidents going forward.


In a flurry of comments historically unsuited to any head of state, yet hardly shocking for the current American president, Donald Trump this weekend targeted the two most popular sports in the country and elicited sharp criticism from some of their most important figures.
On Friday, Trump encouraged franchise owners in the National Football League to fire players who protest during the national anthem. “Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out. He’s fired,’” the president said at an Alabama rally.
Trump’s comment provoked Roger Goodell, the typically reticent commissioner of the NFL, to issue a strong statement condemning the president’s divisive language. The comment was particularly surprising, since most NFL owners who elect the league commissioner are staunch Republicans. Many of the most prominent owners donated to the Trump campaign.
Trump was undeterred. On Saturday, he disinvited the NBA champion Golden State Warriors from the White House, in a tweet. This came after several players, including star guard Stephen Curry, suggested that they would skip the ceremonial visit.
Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!

In response to Trump, LeBron James, the basketball superstar whose Cleveland Cavaliers are rivals of the Warriors, called the president a “bum” on Twitter. The basketball star also pointed out the fecklessness of revoking an invitation after the other party has already declined. (Trump’s you-can’t-fire-me-because-I-quit instinct here recalls his earlier announcement to dissolve several business advisory councils, only after one of them had already disbanded.)
U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going! So therefore ain't no invite. Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
What is the meaning of these seemingly frivolous skirmishes with athletes and sports leagues? His true motivations aren’t clear, but his behavior does fit a pattern.
As Adam Serwer wrote here, there is a clear racial element to Trump’s pronouncements. When the NFL star Tom Brady, a white player, skipped his championship team’s White House visit, the president was silent. (Brady has described Trump as a “good friend,” and at one point displayed a “Make America Great Again” hat in his locker.) When Warriors star Stephen Curry, a black man, announced his intention to do the same, the president called him out on Twitter and rescinded the team’s invitation. In calling for NFL owners to fire protesting players, the president encourages an overwhelmingly white ownership group to disemploy members of overwhelmingly black NFL players union. As Serwer wrote, Trump’s instant criticism of Curry and black NFL players stands in stark contrast to his infamous hesitation to condemn white supremacists and neo-Nazis.
Another reason that the president cannot resist commenting on every non-political issue in American life is that he seemingly cannot stand the actual work of American governance—a preference made salient at a moment when lawmakers are busy trying to repeal the signature legislative achievement of Trump’s predecessor. Several Republican lawmakers said the president never mastered the details of health-care policy. The president’s recent NFL commentary suggests that national anthem protests, on the other hand, are a debate he can engage with.
As a candidate, Trump promised to take a firm leadership role in changing American health care, tax policy, infrastructure spending, drug abuse, and regional inequality. But as president, Trump has given no national address endorsing a specific health-care plan. He has given no national address endorsing a specific tax-reform plan. His administration has no clear plan to begin rebuilding American infrastructure, no real urgency to address the opioid crisis, and no outline to confront the economic issues that supposedly buffeted his candidacy, like regional inequality. Instead, the president has been more inclined to reserve the precious power of his bully pulpit to target his nemeses, by name, as in the case of Colin Kaepernick and Stephen Curry.
It has been said that the age of Trump is the politicization of everything. The claim is impossible to dispute, especially one week after an Emmy’s ceremony that felt like an extended presidential roast. But it’s important to note that Trump is choosing to politicize sports and entertainment, not only because he is inclined toward controversy, but also because he is so demonstrably uninterested in actual policy and the political process.
Nobody is forcing the president to morph into a sports-radio commentator. It is merely the role that best suits the skills that come most naturally to the former game-show host. Consider the simple, uncontroversial fact that in his ninth month in office, the  U.S. president has a clearer position on Stephen Curry’s White House clearance than on any single detail of health care or tax reform. Trump is so bored by the quotidian demands of his surprisingly “complicated” job, which requires guiding policy through a complex political process, that he uses his position to instead harass Americans on the internet. Judging by the attention his sports commentary received this weekend, one can assume that Trump’s shock-jock-in-chief routine will be a long-running show.


Speaking to a crowd in Huntsville, Alabama Friday night, President Trump said he hoped NFL players who knelt during the national anthem—which they've done to protest unjustified police killings of black Americans—would lose their jobs.
“Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners,  when somebody disrespects our flag,” Trump said, “to say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out. He’s fired. He’s fired!’ ” The crowd of supporters erupted in cheers. The president appeared to be referring to  former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who last year began kneeling during the national anthem to draw attention to unjustified killings of black men by law enforcement.
Trump was in Alabama campaigning for Luther Strange, who he has endorsed in the Republican Senate primary contest to fill Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ seat.
This is the second time in as many weeks that the president or one of his subordinates has called for black sports figures to be fired for expressing opinions he found distasteful. Last week Trump demanded an apology for a series of tweets in which the ESPN anchor Jemele Hill described him as a white supremacist; earlier White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders had argued Hill should be fired for her criticism of the president. The president has been generally hostile to criticism and protest throughout his tenure—early in his presidency he labeled the press an “enemy of the people” out of frustration with critical coverage of his administration.
Some NFL players have been kneeling in protest in solidarity with Kaepernick, who is currently unemployed because of a league-wide backlash against his political views.
On Saturday morning, Trump singled out Steph Curry of the NBA champion Golden State Warriors, saying he had rescinded an invitation for them to come to the White House. “Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!” the president tweeted. (Curry had announced in June that he did not want to go, and had recently reiterated that opposition.)
In response, LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers tweeted that Trump was a “bum,” writing, “U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going! So therefore ain't no invite. Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!”
The president’s harsh condemnations of Kaepernick and like-minded players, as well as Hill, stand in stark contrast to his earlier, sluggish reaction to the white supremacist protest in Charlottesville, in which a counter-protester, Heather Heyer, was killed, allegedly by a white supremacist.
That protest, the president insisted, had “very fine people on both sides.”


Democratic megadonor Tom Steyer might not be a household name, but he’s not ruling out a 2020 presidential run or a 2018 run for California governor.
In a recent interview, Steyer expressed skepticism at House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer’s deal-making with President Trump. And he talked about how his background as a former hedge-fund manager squares with a Democratic Party whose progressive grassroots insists big money should be driven out of politics.
Is Trump Wagging the Dog With His Jerusalem Policy?
Steyer has spent years as an environmental activist advocating for climate action and bankrolling Democratic candidates who do the same. He spent more than $70 million in the 2014 election cycle, over $80 million in 2016, and has said that there’s “no limit” to what he will spend to counter the Trump administration.
Despite that heavy spending, he’s faced political disappointment. In 2014, the Sunlight Foundation concluded that Steyer had “little to show” for his investment after a number of his preferred candidates lost. But setbacks don’t seem to have deterred him.
With Trump in the White House, Steyer has expanded his reach in the world of liberal politics. In July, he rebranded his political organization, changing its name from NextGen Climate to NextGen America, to focus on issues ranging from health care to immigration to economic policy in addition to advocating an environmental agenda.
Steyer advocated for progressive economic policies before the 2016 election too—joining the “Fight for $15” in his home state of California in 2015 and launching a commission to study inequality the same year. The decision to rebrand NextGen is a signal, however, that the Democratic donor wants to do even more to align himself with a wide array of progressive causes.  
Steyer is a frequent Trump administration critic. He has said before that he believes the president should be impeached. During our interview, Steyer criticized Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt for his recent comments suggesting that now is not the time to talk about climate change despite the devastation caused by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
Steyer also said he’s concerned that the Trump administration “wants to have political people reviewing scientific reports,” referring to reports that Pruitt said he would direct the EPA to review a scientific report citing human activity as the primary cause of climate change, even though it had already undergone peer-review. Hearing that news, Steyer said, reminded him of something “Stalin,” “Lenin,” or “the Chinese communists” would have done.
Our exchange, along with Steyer’s responses to subsequent follow-up questions posed in a second conversation appears below. It has been lightly edited for length and clarity.
Clare Foran: What’s changed for you since President Trump’s election?
Tom Steyer: Maybe I’m dumb, but it was certainly a wake-up call for me. The Democratic Party was not reaching enough Americans—and did not have a message that was reaching enough Americans. There’s no question about it. Everyone likes to talk about the Hillary-Trump race because it’s sort of like gossip—there’s a story there, there’s personalities. But if you look, I think Republicans control 32 statehouses, 34 governorships, both houses of Congress, as well as the White House and the Supreme Court. So it’s not just like Hillary lost and everyone else won. That was the capstone to a trend that had been in place.
Foran: Do you think the party has spent too much time re-litigating the 2016 primary? I’m wondering what you think about Hillary Clinton’s new book, What Happened, which has revived fights between the party’s centrist and progressive wings.
Steyer: When I was growing up my mother said, “If you murder someone, I will be sitting in a car, outside the prison, after you’ve done your time. But if you feel sorry for yourself, you are 100 percent on your own.”
2016 happened, we should learn from it. I’m sure Mrs. Clinton’s book includes a lot of very smart analysis and conclusions, but the fact of the matter is, people are too focused on that one campaign. It’s just one campaign in a period of time where the same thing happened to a bunch of people. The question now is: What can we do right?
Foran: Why do you think Democrats have lost so many races? And do you think the party is addressing that now?
Steyer: Well obviously there’s a lot of soul searching being done. I will say the two things that we [at NextGen] are really serious about and think are important, are, first, grassroots: As long as you’re doing grassroots [work], that means you are communicating directly with voters in a conversation. If you’re doing that, you are going to be grounded or they are going to flay you. It’s a two-way conversation, not a monologue.
The other thing that I’m obsessed with is what I call “voice,” which is the framing of issues. I feel really strongly that a radical conservative element in the United States has successfully framed issues in a way so that if you accept their frame, the kinds of crazy policies they’re advocating make sense. But only if you accept their premises and their frame. Pushing back against that framework is absolutely of critical importance.
Foran: With the arrival of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said it would be “misplaced” to talk about “cause and effect” and suggested that it would be “insensitive” to talk about climate change. But I expected that Democrats in Congress would start talking about climate change and was surprised that I didn’t hear much of that.
Why do you think Democrats haven’t done more to criticize the administration’s stance on climate change after these storms?
Steyer: Why are [Democrats] that soft? I have no idea. [What Pruitt said about not talking about cause and effect] it’s like a drunk driver saying we need to take care of the accident, and this is no time to talk about drinking and driving.
Of course we need to take care of the people in Houston and the people in Florida, but you’re going to have another accident if you keep drinking and driving. That’s not okay. It’s not responsible, and you’ve got to get called out on it. Stand up and tell the truth for goodness sake.
Foran: What kind of message would you have wanted to see from Democrats in the aftermath of Harvey and Irma?
Steyer: They should have been saying what I was saying, which is, you know what, these guys were lying and they made it worse.
Foran: Lying about climate change?
Steyer: Yes, of course they were. They’ve been pushing fossil fuel expansion and against renewables and they’ve been lying their asses off. And now, the chickens are coming home to roost and of course the liars are saying this is no time to be talking about it.
Foran: You’ve talked about considering a run for political office or public office—
Steyer: Actually, I probably haven’t. Other people have.
Foran: Well, are you considering any kind of run? There’s the California’s governor’s race in 2018. And another presidential election in 2020.
Steyer: I will do whatever I think is the most impactful thing that I can do to push what I believe in terms of values and vision.
Foran: So you’re not ruling anything out?
Steyer: I’m not. I’m sitting here trying to figure out what will be the most impactful. It’s a hard question.
Foran: Do any of those things, like a run for California governor, or a presidential run, appeal to you?
Steyer: Someone asked me, “Does the fact that Donald Trump got elected, does that change things?” Yeah, of course it changes things. So I will make a decision, but if I do it, I’d like to announce it with all the reasons behind it, not along the way.
Foran: Since you know a lot of people in the political world, have you gotten advice from anyone on whether to run or talked to people who think you should run?
Steyer: The question is not what do fancy people think, the question is what do normal people think. I’m much more interested in thinking about whether there’s anything I have to say that is specifically meaningful to people.
Foran: In your speech at the progressive political convention, Netroots, you talked about corporate greed. NextGen has also endorsed the Not One Penny campaign opposing tax cuts for wealthy corporations and billionaires.
How do you you approach talking about corporate power and influence, when you come from a hedge fund background? Do you think that is hard to square with the direction the party is going in, in terms of calls to get big money out of politics and populist sentiment?
Steyer: Actually, I think I understand how that system works. I’ve spent a lot of time studying corporations and what makes them tick. I think I have a pretty good sense of how that works. So actually, the fact that I spent a lot of time investing in companies, and figuring out how they’re organized, is a big plus.
I think I understand the incentives of people running those companies. I think I understand the relationships between different people within the company: people who are straightforward employees, people who can impact the bottom line, and people who share in the bottom line. I don’t think you can understand inequality in America unless you understand what’s driving profitability.
Foran: Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi have been working to cut deals with President Trump: First, there was a spending deal, then Schumer and Pelosi announced they were working with the president on the terms of an agreement that would pass the DREAM Act alongside border security measures, though no final deal on DACA has been reached. Do you think Democrats are making a mistake by trying to make deals with Trump?
Steyer: Look, I don’t believe he is a trustworthy counterpart full stop. I believe that trying to deal with Donald Trump is like trying to play three-card monte in Central Park, it’s not going to work out.
I think that Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi obviously are incredibly sympathetic to the DACA people. And so am I, of course. Obviously, we’re in favor of renewing and continuing DACA. But there’s a threshold question as to whether this is someone who is trustworthy. They obviously seem to think they can get things done, and I am extraordinarily skeptical of that. I believe that in dealing with him there’s the risk that it won’t happen, and there’s the risk that you normalize that this is someone who is fit to be dealt with.
When you start acting like this is a normal time, you miss the point that this is in fact not a normal time and you’re dealing with an administration that is standing up for things that are absolutely contrary to basic American values. That point can never be forgotten.
Foran: In your speech at Netroots, you said that NextGen supports “opening Medicare to all who want it.” Do you support the single-payer legislation that Senator Bernie Sanders recently released?
Steyer: I really haven’t gone through it in detail, but as I’ve said before, health care is a right. The question that we have to address is: How are we going to deliver the best health care at a price we can afford? That’s a real question, and we can look at other systems and see that single payers deliver better health care at a much lower price... [Sanders is] not going to be able to pass this, but what he’s doing is he’s putting out a goal for where we should be looking to go, and I applaud that.
Foran: You recently said that your organization, NextGen, will only support pro-choice candidates. Do you think the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee chair made a mistake in suggesting that the DCCC would be willing to support pro-life candidates in the 2018 midterms?
Steyer: I don’t want to second guess what those guys do. I don’t want to put myself in their place. What I’m saying to you is, look we are really interested in talking to Americans about a different vision, and we really believe in standing up for the rights of Americans that we think are under attack, and one of those rights is the right for a woman to control her own body. We absolutely believe that’s a human right and a civil right, and we’re not wondering about it and we’re happy to say it in public.
Foran: Do you worry there will be a liberal Tea Party effect if Democrats demand ideological purity on certain issues?
Steyer: I understand that point. But if you look at what I’m talking about, in the context of America, I’m a moderate. So, do I think we’re the Tea Party? No, I think we are absolutely squarely, in American history, moderates. We believe in science. We care about people. We believe in equality. We believe in government by and for the people. Yeah, I know, that seems like crazy stuff.

