
The Seven Network has faced an enormous online backlash following 7.30's story about the Seven Network cadet who was dismissed soon after making a complaint about sexual harassment.
Today Seven admitted its handling of its meeting with the cadet could have been better.
7.30 aired an audio recording of the meeting between Seven cadet Amy Taeuber and Seven management where she was accused of bullying and suspended from work.
The audience response was swift.



On Tuesday afternoon Seven's share price dropped three cents to 66 cents.
"It's barely even worth a billion dollars now, the whole company," shareholder activist Stephen Mayne said.
"They bought Channel Seven and the magazine business for $4 billion only five or six years ago.
"It's been a financial disaster for the shareholders and the culture is clearly, clearly quite toxic, particularly on these gender issues."
A number of current and former Seven Network staff have contacted 7.30 to say they've had similar experiences to Ms Taeuber.
They refused to speak publicly, saying it was too hard to take on an organisation like Seven.

Sam Mostyn, the AFL's first female commissioner, served on the board of the Sydney Swans with Seven's CEO Tim Worner and is an outspoken advocate for gender equity at the top of the corporate tree.

"Increasingly, whether through shareholders or through customer-buying decisions, we're seeing the public making a decision about the companies they want to support and if we just look at the investor point of view, this is where we'll see the big changes," she said.
"It's been a particularly Australian phenomenon, I think, the boys' club. Those with privilege can't see it. It's invisible to them. And so the more we break down those organisations that have a lot of privilege held by one gender, the greater the chance we have to build really great organisations that value the talent and potential of everyone."
The Australian Institute of Company Directors released a report today and found Seven West Media was one of 64 of the 200 top companies listed on the Australian Stock Exchange with only one woman on their boards.
Former board member and corporate lawyer Sheila McGregor resigned from Seven's board earlier this year during its handling of the Amber Harrison affair with Mr Worner.
"I think both where young people, men and women, look up to their executives to the board and see, for example, no Asian faces or no women, the message to them is, 'I probably don't fit in here and I can, I need to move to make my career somewhere else,'" Ms McGregor told 7.30.
"The board and the executive are really crucial in setting the tone, the culture of the organisation. Not just setting it, but enforcing it when something goes wrong."

Seven issued a statement this afternoon.
"The program broadcast on 7.30 on Monday night … was neither accurate nor balanced," the statement read.
"Amy was not sacked because she made a complaint.
"The termination of employment was made pursuant to a breach of contract. This did not occur during the recorded conversation broadcast by the ABC last night, but many weeks afterwards following meetings and discussions when the former employee was represented by two successive firms of lawyers and the union.
"There is no doubt the initial meeting could have been handled better."


A digital payment app called Afterpay has been growing increasingly popular amongst millennial shoppers and big-name retailers.

Its offering has been described as "modern day lay-by" — except customers can take home their goods immediately, instead of having to wait until all their instalments have been repaid.
But consumer advocates have warned that Afterpay promotes irresponsible spending with its "Shop now, take now, [re]pay it in four [instalments]" proposition.
All of this is happening in an environment where the retail industry is struggling to boost sales, and Australian consumers are trying to pay off record levels of household debt.
Afterpay is an ASX-listed company formed in 2014 by Nick Molnar and Anthony Eisen, its managing director and executive chairman respectively.
73 per cent of its customer base is millennials, people aged between 17 and 37 (those born between 1980 and 2000).
It claims to have more than 1 million users, and 7,500 retailers which offer its payment platform online or in-store — including Myer, Country Road, Kathmandu, Toys 'R' Us and many female fashion brands.
The company's biggest endorsement to date comes from Jetstar.  The low-cost airline began allowing customers to book flights using the new digital payment system last week.
Retailers pay Afterpay, on average, a 4 per cent commission (plus 30 cents) for each transaction processed through the payment platform. This could be a small price to pay if it lifts sales.
Mr Eisen said, "Afterpay is a service for customers to allow them to buy life's little luxuries and necessities, and spread their payments over time in four payments."
For example, like a credit card, the customer can purchase a $100 jacket and take it home without needing to pay anything on the day.
But similar to lay-by, the customer would need to repay Afterpay in four instalments of $25 every fortnight over eight weeks.
The company does not charge fees as long as the customer makes all four repayments on-time.
Mr Eisen also promotes his company's proposition as a win-win for both retailers and consumers.
"Afterpay takes on all of the risk that the customer may not pay us back in the future. So from a retailer's perspective, it's risk-free."
However, it is not as "risk-free" for consumers who default on their payments.
Afterpay's revenue from late fees has risen by 4 per cent since last year.
"Eighty per cent of their $22.9 million revenue we saw in the last financial report comes from retailers," said the Retail Doctor Group's chief executive Brian Walker.
"And 20 per cent comes from customers that are unable to meet the payment in that four-stage cycle."
Missing a repayment instalment attracts an initial $10 penalty.
Furthermore, Afterpay charges customers a further $7 late fee if that instalment remains outstanding after one week.
So a customer who misses all four instalments is subject to a total late fee of $68 for each transaction.
In practical terms, a customer who misses all payments on a $400 jacket would need to pay a maximum late fee of $68 — which works out to be 17 per cent of the purchase price.
But if a customer were to buy four shirts — in four separate transactions — at $100 each, the maximum late fee would be $272, which is 68 per cent of the purchase price.
On average, credit cards charge a 20 per cent interest rate for outstanding balances.
Mr Eisen, however, said his company makes every effort to prevent customers from having to make hefty repayments.
He stressed that most of Afterpay's income is made from the fees it charges retailers for using the payment systems.
Also, if customers are late with payments, the Afterpay app prevents customers from making any further purchases, he explained.
"Before a payment is due, we communicate very strongly with the customer with SMS to remind them to have sufficient money in their account.
"To the extent the customer doesn't have the funds in their account, we'll notify them straight away.
"And in every situation, we'll waive the late fee at that point — if they're able to remediate that position in a short amount of time."
Consumer advocates are expecting to see more people come to them with debt issues related to Afterpay.
"There is a risk of services like Afterpay leading people to having more debt than they can handle," said the Consumer Action Law Centre's senior policy officer Katherine Temple.
"These businesses aren't required to do any form of responsible lending checks."
Afterpay approves customers' purchases "instantly", a promise which features prominently on its promotional materials.
"Considering the approval process is pretty much instant, there doesn't seem like there's any in-depth assessment of whether someone can make repayments without having serious financial hardship," Ms Temple said.
Afterpay claims it is not a credit product, as it does not charge customers an interest rate for late payments.
As a consequence, Ms Temple said it appears the company is not covered by provisions of the National Credit Code which require credit card providers and other lenders to discharge "responsible lending obligations" — which require credit and affordability checks to be conducted on borrowers.
"Another potential loophole they're taking advantage of is exemptions around short-term credit [of] less than 62 days," she said.
Afterpay's schedule of repayments across four fortnights equates to 58 days — which is four days short of that 62-day period.
So far, retailers are have been enthusiastic about Afterpay's product, which is also useful for customers who understand the risks and are good at budgeting.
"It's all about buyer beware," Mr Walker warned.
"We would always counsel any consumer to have the wherewithal to meet the obligations of their purchase."
Otherwise, they may get more than they bargained for.


The ANZ has told its brokers to tighten lending restrictions in 11 postcodes in Brisbane and Perth, where buyers will now need a 20 per cent deposit before they can borrow.
The bank said it would restrict owner-occupier and investment lending to a maximum of 80 per cent of the value of apartments in seven suburbs across Brisbane — including the trendy inner-city Spring Hill, Petrie Terrace and the CBD, where new apartment blocks have sprung up.
Meanwhile, buyers in the Perth CBD, East Perth, South Perth, Kensington, Belmont, Ascot and Redcliffe will need the same amount.
ANZ has also released guidance to brokers on how best to accurately assess clients' financial situation, including keeping a record of their conversations.
An ANZ spokesman said the update was for a handful of Brisbane and Perth locations and was "part of their ongoing efforts to ensure we are lending responsibly and in consideration of all our regulatory responsibilities".
"We regularly look at a number of factors in relation to residential apartments to make sure we are meeting our responsibilities including, supply and demand, rental yield, vacancy rates and location," the spokesman said.
Banking and Finance Consumers Support Association president Denise Brailey warned the big four banks were scrapping some unpopular fees and cracking down on home loan applications as a last-minute attempt to win public support and stave off a Royal Commission.

On Sunday, the Commonwealth Bank announced it was scrapping fees for customers using other bank's ATM machines.
That decision was quickly followed by the ANZ, Westpac and NAB.
Ms Brailey has long accused the banks of committing widespread mortgage fraud to increase profits by deliberately targeting vulnerable people in the community.
These include pensioners the banks dubbed ARIP customers — or asset rich and income poor.
Ms Brailey said she had more than 2,000 low income people on her books that had lost or faced losing their homes after being "preyed on by banks" and granted loans they could not afford.
"I have seen 70 and 80-year-olds on incomes of $30,000 a year given million dollar loans. It is just a disgrace," she said.
"These are not isolated incidents, every case I've looked at has got fraud, some of them have got forgery, but they are all unaffordable, unstainable, unverified loans.
"In some cases, the elderly customers were paying the interest on their loans with the bank's money."
Meanwhile, a major forecasting firm said a boom had resulted in an oversupply of dwellings in Queensland, WA, SA, the NT and the ACT.
BIS Oxford Economics also predicted a slump in house prices and building construction in Perth was set to continue for at least another 18 months.
BIS Oxford Economics managing director Robert Mellor said the oversupply of detatched dwellings had seen house prices fall 13 per cent in Perth in the past two years, to levels not seen since 2007.


Australia's data-gathering capability has been significantly boosted by a multi-million-dollar deal allowing the CSIRO to access a powerful British satellite.
The national science research organisation has reached an agreement with a UK-based firm to use its NovaSAR satellite to capture images of the earth and sea.
Under the $10.45 million, seven-year deal, CSIRO will be granted partial control of the satellite, which will be launched later this year.
Principal research scientist Dr Alex Held said the CSIRO would have access to "10 per cent of the total amount of imagery it can collect on a daily basis".
"We can basically turn on the camera or turn it off as it flies over and collect the amount of data we want," he said.
Dr Held said it was the first time the CSIRO would have access to such a capability, and there would also be emergency applications.
"In disaster situations we need to map the damage of, say, cyclones on crops," he said.

"We have a computer terminal sitting in Australia and we can basically program the satellite from here through the British operations centre to collect data anywhere we want around the world, with highest priority over our region."
The announcement was made at the week-long International Astronautical Congress in Adelaide.
Dr Held said the deal with Surrey Satellite Technology would also allow for tasks such as detecting illegal shipping and deforestation.
According to Industry Minister Arthur Sinodinos, Australia was one of the "largest users" of data gathered in space.
But previously, the CSIRO has only had access to satellite imagery that has been collected by other agencies.
The "SAR" element of NovaSAR stands for Synthetic Aperture Radar — a technology that, according to Dr Held, is able to pick up wavelengths of light invisible to the human eye.


Internet connections on new developments should be ready before occupancy, a federal Labor politician says, adding internet providers and local governments could face "heavy-handed" federal regulation to protect home buyers.

MP Stephen Jones, who sits on the NBN Joint Standing Parliamentary Committee, said he had had many constituents who moved into a newly developed home or business but were left "in limbo" without a connection for months.
"The default position should be that developers should have communication services connected to a property before it is sold," Mr Jones said.
"I'm calling on the industry and calling on local governments to get the issue resolved so that we don't have to put in place what they might see as heavy-handed federal regulation."
"You can't get an occupancy certificate for a residential premises or a business premises unless there is power and water connected — I think we need to look at telecommunications in exactly the same way."
Rather than causing delays or added costs to development, Mr Jones said installing the necessary telecommunications infrastructure during construction was the "most efficient" approach.
Mittagong resident Robert James, one of Mr Jones's constituents, had been forced to use a mobile internet device after moving into his house on a small cul-de-sac development more than five months ago.

"It's quite a slow technology compared to the direct-connected system, [but] it was the only way we could get any internet at all," Mr James said.
Documents seen by the ABC showed the property developer had organised Telstra to install the necessary internet infrastructure, but the telco reneged because the area was due to be connected to the NBN and the infrastructure would therefore become the responsibility of NBN Co.
Mr James thought getting a connection would be straightforward, particularly as his neighbour had recently been connected after filing a complaint. But when he called NBN Co they told him his property was "lost".
"They've lost the address — they knew nothing about the cabling, they knew nothing about the address.
"It's very frustrating, we are living in this little world of our own here," Mr James said.
NBN Co told the ABC it would send a technician the following week, but Mr James said that had still not happened.
"When we purchased the land, it was supposed to be all services; to me all services is telecommunications."
Under current laws, Telstra is responsible for installing telecommunications infrastructure on developments that contain fewer than 100 properties, whereas NBN Co is responsible for larger developments.

But NBN Co would take control away from Telstra if an area was being connected to the NBN network. This could cause complications and delays for new developments lacking the necessary infrastructure.
To simplify the process, the Federal Government introduced legislation to make NBN Co responsible to connect internet infrastructure to all new developments.
But the legislation did not impose any deadlines and the Department of Communications said approvals for occupancy remained the responsibility of local and state agencies.
The Telecommunications Industry Ombudsman is powerless in resolving internet outages where "no infrastructure" is the cause.
Consumer groups said changing the way internet was connected to new homes was well overdue.
"Right now, broadband services are just as essential as water and electricity," Teresa Corbin from the Australian Communications Consumer Action Network said.
"People need to have access to broadband and there shouldn't be any delays in that provision, particularly if it is a new building. We've known for some time there's been planning put in place."
ACCAN is calling on property owners to get "in writing" what internet connections would be available at the time of occupancy.
It's a dilemma that affected Perth apartment owner Kirby Bonavita, who was unable to postpone her home payments after discovering it would not be internet-ready at the time of occupancy.
"We approached the company selling the property and asked if we were able to delay the signing and mortgage," Ms Bonavita said.
"They said as per the legal contract that having the internet isn't actually a necessity on moving in, so, we had to keep going on with the process and move in without internet."
"I definitely assumed that internet would be something that, in today's age, is a necessity."
Ms Bonavita's home is not scheduled to be connected to the NBN until August 2018.
She approached multiple telcos about getting connected, and had been met with various responses about why her property could not access internet.
"As soon as you ask for anything in writing they literally vanish," Ms Bonavita said.
"I am of the impression that they're stalling until the NBN is at least close enough to be ready."
A spokesman for Telstra said the company does, "not intentionally delay connections to our infrastructure".
"Telstra treats all connection requests equally, irrespective of which provider is delivering an internet service."


New polling shows 81 per cent of people in Tasmanian Premier Will Hodgman's electorate want to see pokies either reduced in number or removed altogether.

The ReachTell Poll comes as a State Government inquiry investigates the future of the local gaming industry.
The grassroots campaign has been inspired by stories of Tasmanians damaged by poker machine addiction — people like Karyn, whose first flutter on the pokies 20 years ago lead to serious problems.
"It could be half an hour and you've gone through the rent money, the grocery money," she said.
"You feel like such a bad person when you have done the wrong thing with the money.
"And you do illegal things. You do think of suicide, I did."

Karyn is now getting help for her addiction from Relationships Australia.
"We're looking at [removing poker machines from pubs and clubs] as being necessary because of what our clients tell us," Jules Carrol from Relationships Australia said.
"They tell us if poker machines were not in pubs and clubs it would make it much easier for them to address their problems and to avoid them altogether."
Community groups have previously argued that removing poker machines would also have economic benefits.
Unlike other states, all of the poker machines in Tasmania are owned by one company, The Federal Group.

The company maintains good measures are in place to protect problem gamblers.
"We think problem gambling is always of concern to Tasmanians, but we've got to remember that it's half of 1 per cent of the adult population at the last social and economic impact study, so we think gambling and gaming has been introduced very responsibly," Daniel Hanna from Federal said.
The State Government has said it wants to end The Federal Group's gaming monopoly and reduce the number of poker machines allowed in the state by 150, but the machines already in place would remain.
The Tasmanian Hospitality Association and The Federal Group have put forward a plan that would see pubs and clubs own the poker machines, similar to what is done in other states and territories.
"It would provide certainty for those hotels and clubs that have already got gaming machines and have made significant investments in their facilities over the years," Mr Hanna said.

The Labor Opposition won't release a policy on poker machines until the Government inquiry hands down its report, despite having an MP on the six-person committee conducting the investigation.
If Labor backs the community campaign to remove poker machines from pubs and clubs it would be the first major party in the country to take that position and it would likely become an election issue when the state heads to the polls in March.
Mr Hanna said unprompted poker machines did not register as a key election issue for voters.
"Tasmanians are most concerned about issues like unemployment, about having a strong economy, about having a good health system and education system and feeling safe in their homes and in the street," he said.
The Tasmanian Hospitality Association has committed to campaign against Labor if it calls for a roll back, warning that it could lead to job losses.
Naiche Watson, the licensee of the Campbell Town Hotel, said his 20 poker machines bring in around $800 a week and are an important part of the business.

He is worried removing them could force the pub to close.
"It would be devastating for me and my family and everyone concerned and especially the local community," he said.
Mr Watson took over the license from his step-father Gary Whitney a few months ago.
"Where does it end? Once the pokies are gone, who knows, the TAB could go, something else could go — Keno could go and then the pub's gone. That's it. A town needs a hotel," Mr Whitney said.
But not all hotels agree — several Tasmanian pubs that don't have poker machines have joined the calls for a roll back.
The Australia Institute commissioned the ReachTell Poll of more than 700 people in the electorate of Franklin this month on the issue of poker machines.
"Just over 80 per cent of voters in Franklin either wanted to reduce or completely phase out poker machines," the institute's Leanne Minshull told 7.30.
"And of those people there were 73 per cent of Liberal supporters, so the premier's own base want to see a change in policy on poker machines."

The polling showed 40 per cent of people wanted to see poker machines removed, while a further 41 per cent wanted a reduction in the number of machines.
"Pokies are a legitimate form of entertainment for many Tasmanians who gamble responsibly that help support many small pubs and clubs around the State," a spokesman from the State Government said.
"We won't be banning them."
The Government did acknowledge that problem gambling was an issue for some people but said it would be introducing a public interest test for new venues requesting poker machines.


The Federal Government's budget bottom line has improved by $4.4 billion thanks to improving employment figures and declining welfare and disability support payments.
Treasurer Scott Morrison announced a $37.6 billion deficit when he delivered the budget in May, but this has now been revised to $33.2 billion.
Revenue was $4.1 billion higher than expected and payments were $1.2 billion less than forecast.
Mr Morrison said 250,000 jobs were created during 2016-17, which meant fewer people were dependent on financial support from the Government.
"The biggest contributor to what we've been able to achieve on the spending side has been a reduction of payments on social services of more than $5 billion," Mr Morrison said.
The sluggish roll-out of the National Disability Insurance Scheme has also improved the budget position, with fewer payments made to those in need of assistance.
Spending on natural disaster relief was also lower than expected, despite the destruction of Cyclone Debbie and widespread flooding earlier this year.
The Government spent less on the management of "illegal maritime arrivals", which also reduced the cost of onshore immigration detention and compliance.

The Future Fund, which was established in 2016 to meet $140 billion in public sector superannuation liabilities by 2020, earned $860 million more than expected.
Mr Morrison said the Government remained committed to returning the budget to surplus in 2021, as outlined in the budget papers.
"These are figures for the year that has just finished so the mid-year update will provide updates on what we believe is occurring for this financial year and over the forward estimates," Mr Morrison said.
Labor's finance spokesman Jim Chalmers said the improvements were "expected" and "minor" and based more on good luck than economic management.
"We still have debt and deficit higher than inherited by the Government," Mr Chalmers said.
"Scott Morrison and Mathias Cormann expect a pat on the back for a budget outcome today that is more about good luck than good policy."


Tony Seba, Stanford lecturer, author and self-described thought leader, is not one to prognosticate lightly.
Seba — a "chief disruptor" with over 20 years experience in venture capital, business entrepreneurship and clean energy technologies — has a message for commuters tired of traffic jams.
"We are on the cusp of the fastest, deepest disruption in transportation history," he says.
Seba predicts that by 2024, the whole concept of individually owned cars will be obsolete. The internal combustion engine will cease to be competitive with electric motors.
Car dealerships will cease to exist. Global demand for oil will plummet, and so will its price. And by 2030, 95 per cent of US auto miles will be travelled by autonomous, on-demand electric vehicles.
The automotive and oil industries as we now know them will collapse.

Seba calls this new paradigm Transport as a Service, or TAAS. Essentially, you're going to use the car like you do today, but, as with existing ride-hailing or car-sharing services, vehicles will be booked or hailed through an app.
Cost-conscious consumers will be able to carpool, halving or quartering their transport costs.
And he predicts that this shift — from ownership to access — will be quite orderly as revolutions go.

History is littered with examples of innovations not catching on despite technological superiority or greater utility.
The Iron Age had functioning water mills, Da Vinci the helicopter, Nikolai Tesla his direct current motor, Toshiba the HD DVD.
For Seba, the advent of the autonomous electric vehicle has an edge that these did not: it is drastically cheaper.
"Every time in history where a new product or service has been equivalent to the incumbent [but] has been 10 times cheaper, there has been a disruption. Every single time," he says.
A Toyota Corolla costs about an eighth of the amount of a Tesla Model S, but thinking in terms of one-off purchases is irrelevant to TAAS: for a fleet of autonomous vehicles the key factors are cost per kilometre travelled and lifetime of post-sale use.
In the RethinkX model, efficiencies in battery storage and the viability of vehicle artificial intelligence are assumed, and leave the customers of the near future with a clear decision.
The average American household spends $10,000 on car upkeep per year — a figure Seba reckons would be cut by 90 per cent under TAAS.
"People love cars — but those same people love money more," Seba says.
South Perth, Darwin and New South Wales, have all trialled or started trials of autonomous vehicles.
"It's a space where we should be competitive," Travis Waller, director of the Research Centre for Integrated Transport Innovation at the University of New South Wales, says.
"Google Maps started here. The software that runs signalised intersections was designed here in the 70s."

Professor Waller also believes the TAAS model is coming, though he's doubtful about Seba's world-changing timeframe. Most manufacturers, he says, are targeting 2025 for autonomous deployment.
"They're looking more at campus environments, or airports," Professor Waller says.
Well-mapped environments, in other words, with relatively low traffic loads.
"But completely autonomous, and completely functional," he says.
Autonomous systems still struggle with irregular interactions — such as cyclists — and Professor Waller suggests they're likely to be deployed in a more limited capacity, at least at first.
"Probably the place where we'll see autonomous take off first is long haul freight," he says.
But he thinks on thing we're likely to start seeing autonomous-only lanes soon, so that drivers are introduced to the concept.
"Even if there is no safety or risk, we have to deal with perception and people's comfort," he says.
At a certain point in Australian history, not owning a car would have seemed as unthinkable as not producing one.
But for Mike Ramsay, a research director at technology research firm Gartner, owning a car has never really made sense.
"In Sydney or in New York, or in San Francisco, or in Tokyo — owning an automobile is really not even logical if you're in certain areas of those cities," he says.
There's public transport, for one thing. Parking is expensive and rare.
But Mr Ramsay is not convinced by the prospect of a revolution within the next decade.
"I think all things in automotive move glacially," he says.

There are cultural barriers to the uptake of autonomous vehicles — in a recent Gartner survey, some 55 per cent of respondents said they would not ride in an autonomous vehicle.
Most said they would ride in a semi-autonomous vehicle, provided there was a manual override function.
Mr Ramsey laughs at the problem this poses for a computer interface.
"How many times have you been in a cab where you've said to the driver, 'Just drop me off here, not to the destination'," he asks.
"Can you communicate that to a robot?"
Mr Ramsay believes the next five years will be a slow march, where cars gradually come to resemble "rolling mobile phones".
Facets of autonomous technology — diagnosing engine problems, rerouting through traffic, guided reverse parking — will become standard.
The internal combustion engine is on its way out — though Mr Ramsey gives it 30 to 40 years, rather than Seba's estimate of five.
The biggest question — one that Seba's model is quiet on — is who will manufacture the vehicles.

Tesla may have a charismatic leader with an unlimited tolerance for risk — but they sold some 80,000 cars in 2016, compared to the 10 million of Toyota or Volkswagen.
"Will Google buy one of these companies?" Mr Ramsay asks.
"So far, [Google] have been hesitant to do that, but if the technology is good enough and there's a demand that's strong enough they may change their mind."
There's a slide that Seba likes to start his lectures with: a black and white photo of an Easter parade on Fifth Avenue in New York City.
The year is 1900, and the scene is flush with suited revellers. What's most striking is what isn't there: cars. Instead, the avenue is filled with horses.
In a few short years — and to the disbelief of many — the Model T Ford went into production and livestock became a rarity in the city.
"The same things were said back then that are now being said about cars," Seba says.


The Federal Government might be forced to intervene with quotas to force companies to get more women directors into boardrooms, a powerful business lobby group has warned.
While reluctant to back quotas to mandate gender diversity, Australian Institute of Company Directors (AICD) chairman Elizabeth Proust concedes it might be the last resort in the battle to get even with the blokes' club in corporate Australia.
"Quotas are not on the table for now, but clearly all options will need to be considered," Ms Proust told AM.
"If we're not able to see genuinely diverse boards, then governments are likely to take action."

Ms Proust said she was reluctant to support quotas because there are often "unintended consequences, so you need to be careful about what you wish for".
The AICD says its quest for 30 per cent female representation across ASX 200 boards by 2018 has stalled.
The institute's latest gender diversity report shows that, as of August 31, there were 25.4 per cent female directors — only marginally higher than the 25.3 per cent reached at the end of 2016.
At the time of publishing, 11 ASX 200 companies had no women on their boards.
The study also outs 64 companies that only have one female director, including 10 companies where a sole female director has been in place for more than three years.

Ms Proust said it is possible that some employers believe they have done enough in checking the diversity box and that gender diversity may have hit a new kind of "glass ceiling".
She slammed male-dominated companies resistant to change who made poor excuses about the difficulty in turning gender diversity policies into reality.
Some are almost representative of the dinosaur age where they say there are not enough qualified women or women aren't flexible enough," Ms Proust said.
"We also hear that women have to look after the children — that's still being said in this day and age.
"They're very average excuses, and they're just that — excuses."
Ms Proust believes the approaching season of annual general meetings will be closely watched after the Australian Council of Superannuation Investors (ACSI) flagged a plan to use its voting power to warn boards to deliver on gender diversity promises.

"[The ACSI] will be voting against companies which are not making progress towards gender diversity," she said.
"Every board is on notice that ACSI will be voting against directors' election, against remuneration reports, and I think that should be a significant wake-up call to boards."
The HESTA industry superannuation fund said it will make a protest vote against the reappointment of a male director at the Australian Agriculture Company (AACo) at its approaching annual general meeting.
Chief executive Debby Blakey has written to the 172 ASX 200 companies that have less than 30 per cent of female directors on their boards.
"We think it's unacceptable that in 2017 some of Australia's biggest companies still have no women on their boards," Ms Blakey said.
Like Ms Proust, Ms Blakey believes quotas have unintended consequences, but concedes they may be inevitable.
"It may well be necessary; hard action might be needed at some point," Ms Blakey told the ABC.
Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter @peter_f_ryan and on his Main Street blog


A major study of 7.5 million road crashes has revealed the safest — and most dangerous — used cars on the market in Australia.
The Monash University-led study lists almost 400 cars on a 1-5 star rating, and found a driver in the least safe car is 10 times more likely to be killed or seriously injured than someone in the safest.
"There's an enormous difference between the best and the worst," RACV's manager of vehicle engineering, Michael Case, told News Breakfast.
"The better performing vehicles don't necessarily cost more."

The ratings are based on statistical analysis of more than 7 million crashes in Australia and New Zealand between 1987 and 2015, and the injuries that occurred in those crashes.
To be included in the list a car must have been involved in at least 100 crashes and resulted in at least 20 driver injuries.
The study also nominated more than 40 car models as "safer picks" based on their history.
"It means the vehicle not only protects its own occupants well, it's relatively a good performer in terms of its effect on other, more vulnerable road-users," Mr Case said.
"The vehicle is less likely to be involved in a crash because of new safety features we've seen introduced into the market."
Among the five-star "safer picks" were popular makes like the Toyota Prius, Ford Mondeo, Mazda 6, Honda CR-V and Holden Colorado ute.


The cars listed date back to 1986 and Mr Case said there had been a noticeable improvement in vehicle safety over the years.
"With most new cars of the past decade fitted with advanced safety features, we are now finally seeing more vehicles in the used car segment with crash avoidance systems," he said.
This means there are cheaper options on the market that still have good safety ratings.
"It is great to see that a few 'safer pick' vehicles are available second-hand for under $10,000," Mr Case said.
"This is a great outcome for young drivers, who are often on a budget and in many cases, tend to drive cars with less safety features — despite the fact that younger drivers are much more likely to be involved in a crash."


Tensions between the United States and North Korea have flared up again, which contributed to a stock market sell-off and surging gold prices.

The other main catalyst for Wall Street's gloomy day was the sharp sell-off in technology stocks — basically all the big name companies that instantly come to mind.
North Korea's Foreign Minister Ri Yong-ho has accused US President Donald Trump of declaring war.
Mr Ri was referring to a Twitter message by Mr Trump on Saturday, in which he warned the Minister and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un "won't be around much longer" if they acted on their previous threats.
In addition, Mr Ri said Pyongyang reserved the right to take counter-measures, including shooting down US bombers — even if they are not in North Korean air space.
White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders denied the US had declared war, and called Mr Ri's accusations "absurd".
The CBOE volatility index (VIX), which measures market anxiety, has risen to a two-week high of 11 points.
Brent crude prices surged by 4 per cent overnight to $US59.17 a barrel — its highest level since July 2015.
Although this drove the energy sector higher by 1 per cent, that was not enough to offset the sharp losses in the US technology sector.
The share prices of Amazon, Apple, Netflix, Alphabet (Google's parent company) and Facebook, in particular, fell between 1 and 5 per cent within one trading day.
This resulted in the tech-heavy Nasdaq's steep decline of 0.9 per cent overnight.
Apple has had its worst week on the stock market in more than a year. Since launching its new iPhones last week, Apple's shares has plunged by 5 per cent as investors.
However, this may just be investors cashing in their profits as Apple shares have risen by more than 30 per cent over the last 12 months.
Despite the weak lead from Wall Street, ASX futures have risen by 0.25 per cent — which indicates a higher open for the local share market today.
With no key economic data out today, the focus will likely be on geopolitical developments.
The Australian dollar has fallen one-third of a per cent to 79.35 US cents.
The Greenback strengthened over market expectations of US tax reform proposals being unveiled this week.
Rio Tinto and BHP shares may come under pressure today.
After all, iron ore prices are down 0.8 per cent, and the mining giants' New York shares have both fallen by around 1.1 per cent each.


A union lawyer has told the Federal Court the Fair Work Commission failed to meet its legal obligations when it decided to cut Sunday and public holiday penalty rates.

A full court of five judges is sitting in Melbourne over the next three days to hear an appeal by unions against the commission's decision in February to cut the rates for hospitality, retail and other workers.
The lawyer representing the two unions involved, Herman Borenstein QC, told the court the commission failed to recognise the effect cutting rates would have on low-paid employees.
"There is no consideration of the position of the low-paid and their living standards," he said.
But members of the bench questioned Mr Borenstein's argument and said the commission had examined what workers were previously paid.
"What they were looking at is what they were previously paid, why is that not looking at a change in circumstances?" Justice Geoffrey Flick asked.
"They're doing the very thing you're saying they didn't do."

Speaking before the hearing, Australian Hotels Association chief executive officer Stephen Ferguson said he was confident the commission's decision would be upheld.
"We've reviewed the submissions of United Voice and others [to the Federal Court] and we believe that we're on very solid ground, or the decision of the Fair Work Commission is on very solid ground," he said.
"They were chartered by the [Federal] Parliament to conduct four-year reviews of awards.
"In our view they have complied by the act and we don't see that the grounds raised by the union will succeed [in court].
United Voice national secretary Jo Schofield, who represents hospitality workers, said the unions' appeal had a strong legal argument.
"Firstly, we think the Fair Work Commission failed to consider the relative living standards and needs of the low-paid and they are required to under the act," she said.
"We'll also argue that penalty rates form an important part of the safety net for workers in the hospitality industry."

The commission's decision was hailed by business groups, who had long argued the penalty rates were an unfair impost on employers and were holding businesses back on Sundays.

They also argued they could generate more work hours for staff if the Sunday rates were reduced.
The Federal Government also welcomed the decision.
Unions and the Opposition argued the workers whose Sunday rates would be cut were the people who could least afford it.
The size of the cuts vary between the four sectors affected. Some have had the Sunday rate slashed from 200 per cent of their Monday-Friday rate, down to 150 per cent.
Others face cuts from 150 per cent down to 125 per cent.
This week's hearing in the Federal Court is being closely watched by both sides of the argument, as it is seen as a test of the commission's powers under the act.
Also appearing at the hearing are the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association and the Australian Industry Group.


Uber's chief executive has apologised for the ride-sharing app's mistakes in London and promised to change as the firm fights a decision by the city not to renew its licence.

The British capital's transport regulator last week deemed Uber unfit to run a taxi service and decided not to renew its licence to operate, which will end this week.
Transport for London (TfL) cited the firm's approach to reporting serious criminal offences and background checks on drivers.
"While Uber has revolutionised the way people move in cities around the world, it's equally true that we've got things wrong along the way," CEO Dara Khosrowshahi wrote in an open letter.
"On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologise for the mistakes we've made.
"We will appeal the decision on behalf of millions of Londoners, but we do so with the knowledge that we must also change."
The company also called for talks with the regulator as soon as possible and pledged to make improvements in the way it reports serious incidents.
London Mayor Sadiq Khan asked TfL to be available to meet the Uber boss.

"I welcome the apology from Dara Khosrowshahi … Obviously I am pleased that he has acknowledged the issues that Uber faces in London," Mr Khan said in a statement.
"Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him."
TfL declined to comment.
Mr Khan, a Labour politician who has criticised the firm in the past, has backed TfL's decision and attacked the Silicon Valley app's response.
"You can't have it both ways: on the one hand acting in an aggressive manner for all sorts of things but on the other hand brief to journalists that they want to do a deal with TfL," he told BBC radio.
"If you play by the rules you're welcome in London, if you don't, don't be surprised if TfL takes action against you."

London police complained earlier this year that Uber, which is backed by Goldman Sachs and BlackRock, was either not disclosing, or taking too long to report, serious crimes including sexual assaults and that this put the public at risk.
Asked about the criticism, Uber's UK Head of Cities apologised about a specific incident and said the firm was working with the Metropolitan police to make improvements to its reporting process.
"We're working with the police to figure out how we can do this in a better way that's helpful to them," Fred Jones told BBC radio.
The firm can continue to operate until the appeals process is exhausted, which is likely to take several months.
Uber, which is used by 3.5 million passengers in London, will see its current license expire on September 30.
AP/


An extraordinary audio recording has emerged which lifts the lid on the way the Seven Network treated a young woman who made a sexual harassment complaint against an older male colleague, only to be dismissed from work soon after.

In a rare insight into human resources culture at the TV network, Amy Taeuber, who was a 27-year-old cadet journalist in Adelaide, was given no notice of allegations against her before being suspended, having her phone removed and being escorted from the building.
She was also denied a support person in the meeting where she was suspended.
Ms Taeuber made a complaint about the older male reporter alleging a series of incidents, including commenting on her appearance, making disparaging remarks about her marital status and calling her a lesbian.
Days after she complained it transpired that Seven was investigating Ms Taeuber, first for a satirical memes page about a Seven reality program run by her sister Kate, which Kate said Amy had no role in.
Then Ms Taeuber was blindsided when she was called into her news director's office and presented with a series of written allegations she'd never heard of before — essentially that she had bullied a fellow cadet, with whom she was still friends, and who had not made a complaint about her.
To protect her legal rights, during the meeting Ms Taeuber placed her phone on the table and pressed record.

At the meeting Ms Taeuber was accompanied by a support person, Lesley Johns, but Ms Johns was instructed to leave the room immediately, something the media union says breaches workplace laws and the Seven Enterprise Bargaining Agreement.
"No, I'm afraid it's not appropriate for Lesley to be in the room at this point," a human resources manager said via speaker phone in the meeting.
"We're not having a meeting that needs a support person, so Lesley, I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you to depart."
Ms Johns can be heard sighing.
"OK. It's really disappointing. She's a cadet who is—" Ms Johns said, but was not able to finish her sentence.
"Lesley, if you want to talk to me about this matter, we can do it at another time, but it's not appropriate at this stage," the human resources manager said.

The human resources manager then told Ms Taeuber she would be "relieved" of her phone and her Seven identity pass, that she was suspended from duty immediately and she was reminded "no touching the IT" — that is, she could not shut down her computer.
"I feel like this is humiliating me," a shocked Ms Taeuber said on the recording.
"For making a complaint in the first place, and it's really disgusting.
"This is disgusting. I've done nothing wrong.
"I've not done any of this and I'm requesting to have the statement of the person who made these allegations."
The human resources manager replied, "OK, so how do we want to plan your exit, Amy? I do understand that we don't want to make it humiliating for you."
When Ms Taeuber pushed the HR manager again for the statement of the person making the allegations about her, saying it is "quite fair" in order to answer these allegations, the HR manager told her to "put it in writing" and refused to engage with any further questions.
Ms Taeuber became tearful, telling her news director she felt "very victimised, to be honest".
"I've worked so hard to get this job and I know people are just trying to get rid of me now and it's just really upsetting," Ms Taeuber said.
"I don't really deserve any of this for standing up and having a problem with someone calling me a lesbian."
During her suspension, Ms Taeuber had no access to her phone or emails and other staff were banned from speaking to her.

"I was absolutely horrified with what had happened to Amy," her mother Linda Taeuber, told 7.30.
"As a family we were just distraught. She'd worked so hard to get that cadetship, she'd got a degree and then a Masters, she'd started at the bottom and worked her way up.
"And to have it taken away from her in the blink of an eye was just horrific."
Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance spokeswoman Katelin McInerney said staff should be made aware of allegations against them before meetings of this nature.
"And certainly [they] should be provided at that time, with the opportunity to bring in a support person or contact [their] union for further advice.
"Certainly it does seem there have been breaches in this matter and that this cadet was not treated with the same rights that she is afforded under her enterprise agreement and under the Fair Work Act."

In another extraordinary twist, it transpired that the person Seven alleged she had bullied was her friend, cadet Peter Fegan, and he had not made a complaint about her.
Instead, Seven had appeared to have gone through her emails and found some where she was talking about Mr Fegan. He told Ms Taeuber he knew nothing about it.
"Peter didn't even know that his name was on the document," Ms Taeuber's sister Kate told 7.30.
"I've overheard many conversations with Peter and Amy talking and he was angry about it. He didn't understand why he had been brought into it."
The group of Seven cadets were in the habit of playing pranks on one another, a practice Ms Taeuber documented on videos she uploaded to YouTube. In the videos, Ms Taeuber, other young women and Mr Fegan can all been seen good-naturedly ribbing each other.
Mr Fegan and Ms Taeuber have remained friends.
"He went straight to his news director and human resources and said, 'You know this is ridiculous. I don't understand why my name is being involved. I've never made any complaints about Amy, she's my friend. I want my name taken off it'," Kate Taeuber said.
"And [Seven] just said, Sorry, it's none of your business'.
"How could it not be someone's business, their name being named as the victim of bullying?"

Former Seven human resources staff told 7.30 that what happened to Ms Taeuber was part of a systemic culture at the network.
They said trawling through emails to construct a misleading case was something the former employees regularly did to get rid of staff and something they said they felt enormously guilty about.
The recording comes in the context of widespread criticism against the network for its handling of its treatment of women through the management of former staffer Amber Harrison, who had an affair with the network CEO Tim Worner.
In a statement, the Seven Network said "there was an investigation into alleged breaches of Amy Taeuber's employment contract".
"She was dismissed because of what she said during the investigation which conflicted with the facts.
"Seven's HR team did not try to build any case against her and their investigation was not related to any complaint made by Amy about other staff."


The clock is ticking for the Federal Government to prevent businesses from suffering widespread power shortfalls over the summer.
Australian businesses want the Government to introduce gas export controls as soon as possible.
That was essentially the Australian Industry Group's (Ai Group) response to comments made by Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on Monday — and his decision to not immediately enact the domestic gas security mechanism.
"Industry needs some decisions very quickly," Ai Group's chief executive Innes Willox said.
"It needs to be done within weeks, not months — or else we are going into a summer where AEMO has already said we face 170 days of potential shortfalls of power within south-eastern states."
The prospect of a gas shortfall next year being considerably higher than expected has been confirmed in two reports — by the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) and the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC).
The Federal government plans to discuss these reports with energy companies this week.
But Mr Willox questions whether these further discussions are even necessary.
The Government "now has all the evidence on the table," he said.
"It surely can't need any more to invoke the powers it has [to declare export controls]."
Mr Willcox said if the Government does not take action soon, there are real prospects of businesses moving offshore, or shutting their facilities in Australia.
In particular, he noted that Australian industries are currently paying four times more for power, compared to two years ago.
"This can't go on much longer, or else we do face national economic security disaster," he said.
"If the Government weren't to act now, given all the evidence we have, you have to ask why have we gone through all this pain?"
The Ai Group acts on behalf of Australian businesses across industries such as manufacturing, construction, defence and mining.
The industry group's chief also said "real downward pressure" was needed for gas prices.
"The ACCC is talking about gas between $6 to $8 a gigajoule, but companies are now paying [double], up to $16 per gigajoule," he said.
Mr Willox was also critical of the ongoing debate about the source of Australia's energy in the future.
"Give us some clear direction for policy going forward. Help us get reliable, affordable power — and power that allows us to overall meet our international obligations.
"But make it cheap, affordable — whether its coal, renewable or gas."
Watch the interview with Innes Willox on The Business — tonight at 8:30pm (AEST), or on ABC iview.


International students in low-wage jobs are being urged to contact the Fair Work Ombudsman if they think they have been ripped off by rogue employers.

The Ombudsman's office has written to more than half a million international students who they believe may have been short-changed on their pay or intimidated by employers for speaking up.
Last year, almost half of the complaints about wage exploitation related to visa holders, with a third involving international students, according to the Fair Work Ombudsman Natalie James.
"[International students] are only about 2 per cent of all of the requests for assistance we receive every year, but they feature quite prominently in the very serious matters we take to court," Ms James said.
"Although international students are the largest group of visa holders with work rights in this country, and although we have heard many stories of very serious exploitation involving this cohort, only a very small number of them come to us for help.
"That tells us that they're not coming to us for help and advice when they should."
The Fair Work Ombudsman has placed an open letter in several major newspapers today urging international students to speak up if they believe they are being exploited in the workplace.
Ms James said often dishonest employers can threaten to report employees to the Department of Immigration if they seek advice on their working conditions.

"We find that many of them are very hesitant to come to us for help," she said.
"They find themselves working more than those 20 hours [that they are legally allowed to work], and we have seen some unscrupulous employers then use this to threaten those students to report them.
"In a number of cases, we have gained appropriate protections for visa holders in that very situation, we've taken action, we've recovered unpaid wages and we have ensured that their visa status was not affected."
Ms James said with international students contributing $22 billion to the economy annually, it is crucial they are offered protections.
For those concerned seeking help might endanger their visa status, she said the Fair Work Ombudsman has arrangements in place to account for that.
"If they suffer any sort of consequences in the workplace because they've come to us for help, like every worker in Australia they are also protected in that case," she said.
"The Fair Work Act imposes quite serious sanctions if people are terminated or lose shifts for example because they've come to the Fair Work Ombudsman for help."
Ms James said in the meantime, international students working part-time while they study should keep a record of the hours they work week to week as potential evidence.
"In the most serious occasions, when we see employers disguising hours works or falsifying records, we then have evidence to recover unpaid wages based on the information that the worker has kept for themselves," she said.
"I have been surprised and concerned. I mean that is the most appalling behaviour I think I've seen in my time as Fair Work Ombudsman."


Charles Bolden, the recently retired head of NASA, says he was surprised it took Australia this long to announce a national space agency.

It was during Mr Bolden's first trip to Australia visiting the Deep Space Network tracking station in Canberra that he realised Australia did not have one.
"My question at the time was why not?" he said.
Mr Bolden said he believed governments had a critical role to play in "blazing the trail" and laying out the path for private industry and entrepreneurs to follow.
While attending the Adelaide conference this week Mr Bolden received the International Astronautical Federation's Award for distinguished service.
As an astronaut with 680 hours in space, Mr Bolden was appointed by former president Barack Obama to lead NASA in 2009.
He led the agency in developing the Space Launch System rocket and Orion spacecraft — designed to take humans to Mars.
Mr Bolden said Australia had long played a role alongside NASA and international space agencies in "pushing humans farther and farther out into our solar system".
Events such as Neil Armstrong's first steps on the moon and the Curiosity Rovers' landing on Mars were all covered by the Deep Space Network tracking station in Australia.

So, if Australia has been playing an important role in space exploration for all these years, why is there a need to establish a national space agency?
Mr Bolden said an agency would pull together industry, academia and entrepreneurs under the one umbrella of government oversight.
"You'll be able to push and incentivise the private industry to take steps that they themselves may not otherwise take," he said.
"Because they're more focused on profit and very cautious about investments that they make.
"That's where the Australian Government will be able to step forward and actually become the risk-taker — what we call in the United States the 'anchor tenant' for the activities of the private sector."
The heads of NASA and the European Space Agency (ESA) have warmly welcomed the announcement of an Australian space agency.
ESA director general Jan Woener even suggested Australia could go a step further and join the ESA as a cooperative member.
In the 1960s Australia was an associate member of the European Launcher Development Organisation.
"If we come to very close cooperation we are ready also to welcome Australia as a cooperative state," he said.

Acting NASA administrator Robert Lightfoot said his agency has had a great partnership with Australia for a long time and the announcement is an excellent opportunity to increase the collaboration and cooperation.
"I look forward to seeing what niche areas that Australia decides they want to focus on and I think that'll be their challenge," he said.

NASA's target, laid out by Mr Obama, was to put humans in the Martian environment by 2030.
"I think most of us believe that's a date we can make," Mr Bolden said.
"Like any challenging program, or anything that's ambitious, you have ups and downs."
Mr Bolden said they were going well in the development of the Heavy Lift Launch Vehicle, the Shuttle Landing Facility and Orion crew module, which would be responsible for getting humans to deep space.
"We're looking forward to the first flight of the two, of the launch vehicle and the capsule itself together, hopefully as early as late 2018 or 2019," he said.
He also said NASA was working with its international partners on a Deep Space Gateway, which would orbit vehicles in lunar orbit.
The outpost would be used to test technologies in a deep space environment and also to be used as a staging area for missions to Mars.
During Mr Bolden's time at NASA the shuttle program was phased out in order to offer more opportunities to the commercial space industry.
"To provide routine transportation to and from space for cargo first, as we're doing now very successfully, and later for humans," he said.

But as NASA's partnership and often reliance on private companies, such as Elon Musk's SpaceX has grown, Mr Bolden said he had some concerns about the shift.
"Any time you open up an enterprise like space exploration and decide that you're going to share responsibility among government, private enterprise… entrepreneurs, there is a risk," he said.
"[The risk is] that they will find that it's economically just not a good thing to do, and they may walk away.
"But I'm convinced that most of our partners today believe in the same things that we do."
A number of privately funded space projects working independently of NASA have announced plans to be taking tourists to space, even as far as Mars.
Mr Bolden said his concern with that was a matter of concern for human life and the welfare of the environment.
"The one thing about working with an agency like NASA, the European Space Agency… is that they represent the organisation that has overall fiduciary responsibility for the safety of the populace," he said.
"And for the economic use of the public's funds. Private enterprises may not …feel those same responsibilities."
One particular subject Mr Bolden said he was not a fan of were the one-way trips to Mars, advertised and promoted by the Mars One initiative.
"I'm not in favour of that, to be quite honest, I think it's somewhat irresponsible," he said.
"One of my jobs when I was the NASA administrator was to do the best I could do to take care of the life and prosperity of every person that participated in any of our programs."
Mr Bolden resigned from NASA just after Donald Trump's inauguration, something he said "came by law".
When a new administration comes in it is up to them to turn down a resignation, which Mr Bolden said rarely ever happens.
He said he had some concerns about the new Trump administration, as historically any new government wants to "establish their own legacy".
"My hope would be that President Trump step back for a while, take a good hard look at where NASA is and where we're going with our international partners," he said.
"My advice to them would be the advice that I was given and that I give everybody else — fold their arms for the next year or two and take credit for everything that happens."


Gas shortages on the east coast could be three times worse than expected, but it has not prompted Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull to immediately introduce export controls.

New reports from the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) and the competition watchdog warn the prospect of a gas shortfall next year is considerably higher than expected.
The Federal Government will discuss the reports with energy companies this week and remind them that if the shortage is not addressed, then exports will be restricted.
The vast majority of gas produced in Australia is shipped overseas, which has been blamed for the shortage and the increasing gas prices in the eastern states.
Mr Turnbull foreshadowed the market intervention earlier this year, in a bid to secure supply in 2018.
These new reports indicate gas companies will need to do more than initially expected to ensure enough local supply and to avoid the export controls.
AEMO now projects shortfall of up to 107 petajoules in 2018 and 102 petajoules in 2019, warning risk of energy blackouts requires "close attention and monitoring".
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) warns the supply-demand outlook has "significantly deteriorated" since its last inquiry, with a "substantial shortfall" now likely in 2018.

Mr Turnbull said the export controls would not be introduced without consultation with the energy industry, and they could be avoided if gas companies acted quickly.

"We want to see a plan from them — we want to see a commitment — then we want to be satisfied that it meets the requirements of the ACCC," Mr Turnbull said.
"Clearly, the objective is for the industry to fix the problem by agreement."
While Mr Turnbull has not pulled the trigger on export controls, he has made it clear to energy companies that the Federal Government is willing to do so.
"We will continue to hold that mechanism ready to go and we will ensure that it is entirely fit-for-purpose in light of these changed circumstances, that is, a much bigger shortage than previously advised," he said.
"If we are not able to receive the assurances from the industry to our satisfaction and that of the ACCC, then we will impose those export controls."
Opposition Leader Bill Shorten has repeated his calls for export restrictions to be immediately imposed, tweeting "it's time to pull the trigger on export controls. Why does [Mr Turnbull] refuse?"
Labor's energy spokesman Mark Butler said the Government was delaying action on export controls.
"The Prime Minister should have today declared a shortage that reflected the advice he received from the market operator," he said.
"We think the trigger has to be pulled and there has to be a formal declaration that the gas market in Australia is up to 100 petajoules of gas short."


The dying wish of Tasmanian pilot Lloyd Jones MBE, the first person to land a plane on Lake Pedder beach in the late 1940s, was to have his ashes scattered over that pristine sand.

However in 1972, the renowned pink quartzite beach was flooded for a new hydroelectric scheme, triggering one of the nation's first major environmental struggles.
But last Friday, 14 years after Mr Jones's death, his friends, family and members of Tasmania's Aero Club finally fulfilled his wish to have his ashes scattered from a plane flying over south-west Lake Pedder, as it is today.
Mr Jones was a member of the Nos 92 and 93 Beaufighter Squadrons near the end of World War II and later pioneered the Aero Club in southern Tasmania.
Flying all over the state, Mr Jones was well known for his aerial photography of Tasmania's south-west wilderness.
But it was his work in the community that earned him the Member of the British Empire (MBE) bestowed by Queen Elizabeth II.
"My father did a lot of air rescue work before the days of flying doctors," daughter Jennifer Rayner said.
"He would be called out to rescue people when it wasn't safe to reach them any other way.
"He saw so much of the state which wasn't accessible ... he'd often make food drops to bushwalkers as well."
To Ms Rayner, Mr Jones was an adoring father.
Listening to his daring flying tales and sitting with him in light aircraft as they took off are some of her fondest childhood memories.
"It was always very exciting because the aircrafts were very small and it's an amazing feeling to be up in the air in one of these things," she said.

But tragedy struck in 1960 when an accident that almost cost Mr Jones his life ended his flying career.

During a quiet afternoon at the Aero Club headquarters, Mr Jones took a spin in a go-cart around an empty hanger.
Unfortunately, he crashed into a heavy metal hanger door.
Many worried Mr Jones might not live from his injuries.
Paralysed down the right side of his body, he made a slow recovery but never regained his full capacity to speak and had to use a walking stick for the rest of his life.
Ms Rayner said the accident was very hard on her father.
"He couldn't fly again because of his injuries. That was very difficult for him," she said.
Ms Rayner said she was happy she could fulfil her father's dream while also celebrating the Aero club's 70th anniversary.
"He was the first instructor of the Aero Club and trained many young pilots and he was very proud of it," she said.
"I think he'd still be very proud of it today."
Mr Jones died aged 88.



If you had to imagine the worst possible occasion for an air traffic control system failure, Monday would have to be it.
Australia's busiest airport. Monday morning. Peak hour. At the start of school holidays.
With systems down at Sydney Airport, aircraft movements had virtually ground to a halt.
Broadcasts from Live ATC reveal how it sounded from the skies.
Controller: Just for your information we're having issues with our flight plan and radar system. There's a possibility of delay.

Pilot (getting ready for take-off): Confirming we can expect [runway] 16 right for departure?
Controller: Qantas 565 ah no, nothing at this stage. There's been a total radar failure within the Sydney basin, so it's a nationwide ground stop. The only arrivals that are being processed are those that are airborne, and I don't believe we're accepting any departures until the radar's back online.
Pilot: The estimate of the delay?
Controller: You got a piece of string?
Pilot: Fair enough.
Controller: The techs are working on it. Every time it reboots it locks up again so, ah yeah, until it's reliable there'll be no movements.

Controller: Emirates 412 [inaudible] tower G'day continue approach.
Controller: Emirates 412 I don't have a radar so I'm not sure who's behind you ... just standby.

Controller: Betcha never seen this place so quiet on a Monday morning.
Pilot: Like a ghost town.

Pilot: You guys going to get your [inaudible] together shortly, or are you gonna be out for a while?
Controller: We're not sure, it's been out since five and we've got some sort of radar picture back and it's back as normal, not degraded, so it's not a good sign so not sure what's going to happen.
Pilot: Good luck. Long day for you guys.
Controller: Think we're gonna need it.



While the fault has been fixed, travellers have been warned to prepare for delays throughout as airlines deal with a backlog.
Passengers have been urged to contact their airlines for further information.

"The software fault failed to convert from night-shift operations to day-shift operations, consequently one air traffic control console was operational for the morning peak when in normal circumstances six to eight consoles are operating," Airservices Australia said in a statement on Monday afternoon.
"Airservices is confident that it was not a cyber incident, it was a hardware failure."
The ABC understands the fault was related to the flight planning system which feeds into the radar and without it, controllers cannot see which plane is which.
It is also believed the data connection between Sydney and Melbourne was down.


A new fight is emerging between the nation's major banks and the Federal Government, with the Australian Bankers Association (ABA) protesting at a one-week consultation timeframe for the new Bank Executive Accountability Regime.

The so-called BEAR will ensure that up to 40 per cent of senior bank executives' remuneration is deferred and can be lost if they fail in their corporate governance duties.
Senior bank executives and directors will also have to be registered with the banking regulator, APRA, and will risk disqualification if they breach their duties.
Big banks will also face penalties of up to $210 million if their executives breach their duties.
Draft legislation for the BEAR was released on Friday, with submissions from interested parties due this Friday, September 29.
The limited consultation period has infuriated the main banking lobby group, which said it is "shocked" to have only a week to read through and comment on 34 pages of draft legislation and a 33-page explanatory memorandum.
"This is not good public policy making," the Australian Bankers Association's chief executive Anna Bligh told RN Breakfast.

"Banks have accepted that this regime will be coming into place, they are very keen to work cooperatively with the Government to get that regime right, and there are still some outstanding questions about it.
"I can't think of another piece of legislation that's had a seven-day turnaround."
However, Treasurer Scott Morrison said the banks had plenty of advanced warning about the content of the new laws.
"I first raised this with bank chairs back in February of this year," he said.
"We had the consultation on the specific proposals for the legislation back in July, it was flagged in the budget.
"So this is one of the oldest tricks in the book, I know it's a quick turnaround, but I'm not mucking around."
Mr Morrison told RN Breakfast that the banks are trying to stall for time in the hope of killing the new regulations.

"I know the bank's don't want a lot of these things to be in there, but I'm not about to give them three months to make the case why they shouldn't be in there, they're going in," he said.
One of the changes the ABA is keen to see to the law is the inclusion of other financial companies.
"It's currently proposed only to apply to banks, even though APRA — the regulatory body charged with administering the regime — has extensive oversight powers over a much broader financial sector," Ms Bligh said.
"Banks recruit not only from other banks, they recruit from the insurance sector, they recruit from the superannuation sector — employment is very mobile across the entire finance sector.
"It seems to banks to make a lot of sense, to make sure that the regime actually works in the way the Government wants it to, that it should apply to executives across the whole range of finance."

Mr Morrison responded that the BEAR is specifically to designed to address risks around so-called authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADIs), which had to be held to a higher standard because they are responsible for customer deposits.
However, Ms Bligh said other financial institutions were likewise responsible for large amounts of Australians' savings.
"I think Australians want to know that there is accountability in the executive teams not only of banks, who look after their money, but of superannuation that's looking after their long term retirement, within their insurance companies," she argued.
"These are substantial financial investments for Australians and I don't see any strong public policy reasons for the regime to exist in only one part of the finance sector."


The national maritime safety watchdog says it has given a northern cruise company a final warning in relation to safety breaches after a tourist was accidentally left on a remote Kimberley beach.
The Broome-based charter company Ahoy Buccaneers has been shut down twice in recent years due to issues with the seaworthiness, stability, electrical wiring and firefighting equipment on board its vessel MV Oceanic.
The most recent incident occurred in June at a picturesque beach in the Kimberley where more than a dozen passengers had been dropped off to walk up a hill and look at Aboriginal rock art.
The Raft Point site is very remote, located 180 kilometres from the nearest town, is inaccessible by road and often unvisited by boats for days at a time.
The Australian Maritime Safety Authority's (AMSA) manager of compliance David Marsh said the boat's skipper failed to notice that one of the passengers had wandered off the track and had not reboarded the small transport dinghy.
"As they were bringing their passengers back on board their main boat it appeared that one of their passengers had been left behind unfortunately, for a brief period of time," Mr Marsh said.
"It was brought to their attention by another operator. So yes, the vessel did come back around and pick up that passenger, but yes quite concerning that they'd left someone behind."
Ahoy Buccaneers downplayed the incident, saying that the passenger was not at risk and her absence would have been noticed before the MV Oceanic set sail.
The company declined an interview, but told the ABC that there was no possibility she would have been left overnight.
But AMSA says the case highlights a lack of basic safety practices.
"The most important thing here to remember is that a head count would have identified this, so whether the vessel left or whether it didn't is not really that important," Mr Marsh said.
"The point is that they were unaware that that person was not aboard their boat ... it is serious, there's no doubt about it."
The authority issued the company with a prohibition notice requiring immediate changes to safety practices, along with a three-month direction notice requiring extra inspections and record keeping.
AMSA says Ahoy Buccaneers has so far complied with the order, but given its safety record over the past three years the latest regulatory action is being treated as a final warning.
"What it means is that this really is a final chance for the operator. We have given the company a chance to show and to demonstrate and understand the importance of safety and what that means to themselves, the passengers, and to the vessel," Mr Marsh said.
"If at the end of that period they're unable to demonstrate adequately that they've taken this seriously, then AMSA will take more serious and perhaps a permanent compliance action against the operator."

The company's launch in 2015 heralded the first low-budget cruise option in the Kimberley, with locals and tourists welcoming the introduction of a $1,500 eight-day itinerary.
Until then, the market had been dominated by upmarket cruises charging between $10,000 and $20,000 to visit the region's spectacular coastal waterfalls and rock art.
But the company was soon on the radar of safety authorities, who in September 2015 temporarily suspended its operations due to concerns about a lack of safety equipment onboard MV Oceanic.
A year later it was shut down again when inspectors found problems with firefighting equipment, a lack of emergency hatches, and the vessel's seaworthiness.
At the time the company told the ABC the two week shutdown cost them thousands of dollars and should not have been done during the Kimberley's peak tourist season.
Despite that, many who have travelled on MV Oceanic said they were happy to have a no-frills option in order to see a part of Australia they otherwise would not have been able to afford.
"I really enjoyed it, it was really adventurous," said Daryl Clarke, who went on an eight-day cruise in 2015.
"There were a few things that went wrong with the boat, but as far as bang-for-buck it was great ... you get what you pay for is the moral of the story."
However his friend Liam Gerner said for him the obvious safety problems overshadowed the trip.
"It was definitely one of the greatest places I've ever seen, but the safety of the boat just wasn't up to scratch ... I mean all of the attitudes of staff, really, it was a culture of just brewing tragedy really," Mr Gerner said.
"I don't think staff really took safety seriously enough ... there was a real attitude of gung-ho 'we're going to show you a wild adventure'. And I think that's fine, but there's got to be a limit."
He said passengers who were meant to be sleeping in swags on beaches refused to do so because of the crocodile risk, so instead squeezed onto the boat's deck, leading to almost thirty people sharing two toilets.
The directions notice requiring extra monitoring of Ahoy Buccaneers is due to conclude in October.
Ahoy Buccaneers has told the ABC it plans to continue to provide affordable cruises to the Kimberley coast in accordance with national law.


Thousands of airline passengers are facing delays, including families heading off for the school holidays, following an air traffic control system failure in Sydney.
Dozens of flights have been cancelled while many more are experiencing delays of more than two hours.
One pilot described the Harbour City's skies as being "like a ghost town" to air traffic control as he came in to land.

Air Services Australia (ASA) said there had been a "system software failure" at Sydney's air traffic control at 5:00am.
As a result, only a limited number of flights were able to land and depart.
ASA said the glitch had now been resolved but the airlines expected disruptions to continue as they dealt with a massive backlog.
There are long queues at check-in and transfer desks.
ABC News obtained a radio exchange from one plane landing at Kingsford Smith — normally the country's busiest airport — this morning.
Controller: "Betcha never seen this place so quiet on a Monday morning."
Pilot: "Like a ghost town."


Passengers are facing delays of up to three hours while others are having to wait until tomorrow morning to board a flight.

Some of the major airlines expect to put on additional services to ease the disruptions.
Jan Ibbottson is on holidays from the UK and said it was frustrating her flight to the Gold Coast was cancelled.
"I'm very calm about it, but it's chaos," she said.
Ms Ibbottson said the airlines had not handled the situation well.
About 15 planes can land and depart per hour using manual air traffic control methods, but there are usually about 50 movements per hour.
ABC journalist Lexy Hamilton-Smith's 7:30am flight from Sydney to Brisbane was delayed.
She said passengers have spent more than an hour on board QF506 while the plane waits on the tarmac, but only passengers with no check-in baggage have been allowed to get off.

Kay Wallace from Bunbury in Western Australia is in Sydney attempting to get to Hobart for the 50th anniversary of the Hash House Harriers social running club.
Her flight from Perth to Melbourne overnight was cancelled and she was put on a flight to Sydney.
"The backlog here has to be cleared before we can even look like going to Hobart," Ms Wallace said.
The ABC understands the fault relates to the flight planning system.

This feeds into the radar picture and without it, controllers cannot see which plane is which.
It is also believed the data connection between Sydney and Melbourne was down.
The Qantas departure board lists flights to Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide "delayed due ATC Radar Failure".
Passengers have been urged to contact their airlines.





Separate events, different states, alternate days.
Between them, however, competition kahuna Rod Sims and Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull last week demolished an old chestnut about renewable energy: it is not the cause for the recent spike in electricity prices.
In fact, according to both, it has had very little impact.
For the past decade or more, we've been bombarded with the message from a vocal but powerful minority within Parliament and the broader community that the switch to renewable energy has made Australia uncompetitive, crippled our industry and driven power prices higher.
The real issue is that, fundamentally, they don't believe climate change is real or that humans have adversely affected the planet.
Having spent so long denying science and rejecting the overwhelming body of evidence, they're now being forced to ignore economics; that renewables have become a cheaper longer term power source.
Coal is the future, they argue.

That's simply not a view shared by the power generators, whose primary motivation is to turn a profit and stay in business, or the banks who must finance them.
Nor is it a view shared by BHP, the nation's biggest company that built a large part of its wealth on coal exports.
Last week, it confirmed it was reviewing its membership of the Minerals Council of Australia because of "materially different positions" on issues such as a Clean Energy Target and climate change.
Technical innovation around renewable energy generation has seen costs plummet.

As the theatre over keeping open the creaking Liddell coal-fired power station in NSW's Hunter Valley played an encore last week, the ACCC boss and the PM delivered a few sobering nuggets.
First, there was Rod Sims at the National Press Club in Canberra on Wednesday: "Forty-one per cent of the increase in electricity prices over the last 10 years has been in network costs and we keep forgetting that."
He went on: "Those poles and wires that run down your street are the main reason you are paying too much for your electricity."

According to Mr Sims, extra retail charges account for 24 per cent of the higher prices while higher generation costs as a result of a failure to invest make up 19 per cent of the price hikes.
Green energy initiatives contribute just 16 per cent to the recent price hikes.
On Thursday in Brisbane, responding to questions, the PM concurred, explaining that "particularly for retail customers, the largest single part of your bill is the network costs."
"That's the poles and wires basically," he said.

But then he elaborated on the more immediate issues, particularly around generation and the changes that have been foisted upon consumers.
"In terms of the green schemes, they do have a cost but it is a relatively small cost," he said.
"Gas is the biggest single fact at this point in time."
What does gas have to do with it? As the PM explained, the electricity price is set by the last generator to come into the stack.
It's what economists call the marginal cost of production. You might be to meet half the demand at low price. But it is the expensive bit at the end that determines how much a producer will charge everyone.
When it comes to electricity, gas is that last final element.
"It is peaking power," the PM said. "The increase in the gas price has increased the cost of electricity."
Gas prices haven't just increased. They have quadrupled.
And the tragedy is that Australia, with one of the greatest reserves of gas on the planet, now charges its households and businesses far more to use that energy than the countries to which we export.

With the continued reversal of policy on carbon pricing and climate change, the unofficial industry consensus was to build solar and wind generation with gas-fired back-up to shore up reliability; a decision affirmed by the chief scientist Alan Finkel in his report on how to cope with future challenges.
But three major export terminals were built at Curtis Island just off Gladstone in Queensland, with Santos building a plant that required far more gas than to which it had access.
To fulfil its export contracts, it began sourcing gas previously destined for the domestic market.
That forced the price of domestic gas sky high just as a global glut sent international prices crashing.
It's now cheaper to buy Australian gas in Asia. A fortnight ago, gas from West Australia's giant Gorgon project was sold to India at $8.70 a gigajoule. East coast gas sells here for $17.50.
That's why the Federal Government has shanghaied gas producers like Santos to direct export gas back into the local market.
If Australians could get the same deal on our gas that Indians have secured, our electricity would be much cheaper.


When it comes to cost, coal lobbyists usually refer to the subsidies doled out to the renewable sector to argue the industry wouldn't exist if it had to stand on its own.
That's a valid point. But it overlooks two things; the vast billions handed out to the coal industry and the increasing competitiveness of renewables.
Every coal fired generator in Australia was built, not just partially subsidised, entirely with taxpayer funds.
When they were privatised, many were given state owned coal mines with contract prices way below market, effectively a further subsidy.
Then there are the health costs.
A health study in the Latrobe Valley last year identified much higher respiratory and asthma admissions to hospital than the Victorian average while life expectancy was significantly lower than the state average.
But it is the cost of energy generation where the game really is changing.
As the Goldman Sachs graphs above show, renewable energy costs have plunged by up to 70 per cent since 2009 and will be the cheapest form of generation in Europe this year and in the US within eight years on a levelised cost basis.
When the cost of installation is taken into account, however, the story changes.

Wind and solar are much cheaper. Not only is the fuel free and faces no regulatory risk — in the form of a carbon price — but the technology is simpler and quicker to install.
Australia's chief scientist Alan Finkel went one step further. He factored the extra costs of adding gas or battery backup to ensure stability or baseload power in the system.
Wind still came out cheapest, with solar only marginally more expensive than black coal.

Renewable plants can be built within one to three years while coal-fired plants take between four and seven years to build.
Putting aside arguments about climate change, the main problem with coal-fired electricity is that the numbers no longer stack up.
It's too expensive, it has much higher regulatory risks and renewable technology is rapidly advancing.
It will take more than a taxpayer subsidy to build one here. It will need a full taxpayer handout. And it will result in more expensive power bills.
Coal is simply a form of stored solar energy. New technology has delivering cleaner, more efficient and cheaper ways to directly harvest solar energy to power our lives.
Don't expect that innovation to stop.


British actor Colin Firth, who often plays the role of a quintessential Englishman in his many films, has become an Italian citizen, Italy's Interior Ministry says.
"The very famous actor, who won an Oscar for the film The King's Speech, is married to a citizen from our country and has often declared his love for our land," the ministry said in a statement.

Firth said he would remain a dual national, adding that his Italian-born wife would also be seeking British nationality.
"We never really thought much about our different passports," the actor said in a statement.
"But now, with some of the uncertainty around, we thought it sensible that we should all get the same," he added, in an apparent reference to last year's British vote to leave the European Union.
Firth has been married to Italian film producer Livia Giuggioli since 1997 and the couple live with their two sons in Britain.

Unlike some other EU countries, Italy and Britain both allow dual nationality.
"My wife and I are both extremely proud of our own countries," Firth said.
A number of EU countries, including Germany, France and Ireland, have reported a surge in British citizens seeking a new nationality in the wake of the Brexit vote.
The Italian announcement came just hours after British Prime Minister Theresa May flew to Florence to make a keynote speech to try to revive stalled Brexit negotiations and reassure worried business leaders.
Firth has been quoted as calling Brexit a "disaster of unexpected proportions".
The actor, who has played Mr Darcy in Pride and Prejudice and Prince Albert in The King's Speech, said he "will always be extremely British" but also has "a passionate love of Italy".

/AP


Dozens of motorists on the Mitchell Freeway watched a man clinging to the outside of a moving train in Perth on Saturday afternoon.
The 23-year-old was arrested after he climbed onto the rear of a train before it left Leederville Station and reached speeds of up to 110 kilometres an hour.
The Public Transport Authority (PTA) said he could easily have been killed.
"He was clinging on to a windscreen wiper — were he to fall it's a very unfriendly and unreceptive surface with ballast and rail and concrete sleepers, he would have almost certainly been killed, if not badly injured" PTA spokesman David Hynes said.
A Main Roads employee spotted the man around 4:30pm on Saturday between Leederville and Glendalough stations while monitoring traffic, and immediately notified the PTA.
The PTA said by the time they could react the train was close to Glendalough Station where it was scheduled to stop.
The PTA monitored the situation on CCTV as the man got off the rear of the train and went inside the carriage.
He was detained after the train arrived at the next stop, Stirling Station, by waiting PTA officers.

Mr Hynes said it was the first time the PTA has ever been made aware of a train surfer during the act.
"In all other instances it generally goes up on Facebook or on the internet, on YouTube after the event," he said.
"They want to get on YouTube, they want mainstream publicity so they don't try to get themselves caught, so we don't often know about it until it's well after the event.
"This is the first time in the memory of anyone at the PTA that we've actually known about it while it was happening."
The PTA do not currently have a policy to deal with train surfers caught in the act but Mr Hynes said it was something they would consider.
Transport Minister Rita Saffioti said there will be an investigation into the incident and the decision to continue on to the station will be looked at during the process.
"The PTA made a judgement call and there will be an investigation, but these types of situations cannot happen and should not happen on our trains," Ms Safiotti said.
"People shouldn't be acting stupidly around our rail line, these are serious pieces of infrastructure and they can cause death and of course they can cause serious injuries" she said.
The man was taken to hospital to undergo a mental health assessment and could face charges for trespassing on Public Transport Authority property.


The days of hunting for your own bank's ATM to make a free withdrawal could soon be a thing of the past, with all four of the big banks announcing they will axe fees for customers of other banks.
CBA, Westpac, ANZ and NAB banks said they were aware of the deep unpopularity of "foreign ATM" fees among Australians.
The CBA was the first to abolish the $2 fee for each withdrawal by non-customers.
"We have been listening to consumer groups and our customers and understand that there's a need to make changes that benefit all Australians, this is one of the steps we're taking to make that happen," said Matt Comyn, group executive of retail banking services.
Westpac quickly followed suit, emphasising the benefits afforded to those in regional and rural Australia.
"We want all Australians, whether they are Westpac Group customers or not, to benefit from one of Australia's largest ATM networks," Westpac executive George Frazis said.
"This will make it more convenient for millions of Australians to conveniently obtain cash, with no additional fees.
"It will particularly assist Australians in rural and regional areas."
ANZ then announced it would dump ATM fees from October.
"We know ATM fees are one of the most unpopular and while our customers have benefitted from our network of ATMs across the country, this is another example of acting on customer feedback as well as genuine reform from the industry," executive Fred Ohlsson said.

Lastly, NAB announced their move to drop the fees, calling the decision a "good outcome for customers".
"We know it has been frustrating for them to be charged to withdraw their own money from an ATM, and the change we are announcing today will benefit millions of Australians," chief customer officer Andrew Hagger said.
There were more than 250 million withdrawals across all Australian banks by non-customers last financial year, according to Reserve Bank data.
Together, Australian financial institutions made $500 million from these fees over the financial year.
Treasurer Scott Morrison pointed to Federal Government pressure as the reason behind the CBA's decision.
"The Turnbull Government has been working hard to ensure bank customers get a better deal and this is further evidence we are getting results," the Treasurer said in a statement.
Opposition Leader Bill Shorten earlier described the fees as a "rort".
"The Commonwealth Bank has finally realised that the game is up and the rort has got to stop," Mr Shorten said.
He attributed the move to pressure from the Opposition for a banking royal commission.
Banking analyst from Digital Finance Analytics, Martin North, said it is not a huge shock to see the big banks ditch this fee.
"There's no doubt that the volume of transactions through ATMs is falling as more and more people are paying for things by cards, swiping and those sort of things," he said.
"So essentially you could argue that this particular source of revenue was on the way down anyway.
"It's yesterday's banking model … the future is all about mobile payments and it's about pay and go and so perhaps there was always going to be a decrease in the revenue from this source.
"Maybe it's about picking the time to try and make a bit of a splash about it."
Consumer group Choice had also been urging the other banks to remove the fees.
"We shouldn't be paying them, the United Kingdom has already shown they can run an ATM network that is free of fees," Choice spokesman Tom Godfrey said.


So the world didn't spin off its axis and global markets didn't melt down as the US Federal Reserve announced it would start winding back its multi-trillion-dollar experiment in monetary policy.

Even the slightly more hawkish than expected tone from chair Janet Yellen and the firming of another rate hike before Christmas did little if any damage, bar knocking Wall Street down a few points from its record high.
Learning a lesson from former chair Ben Bernanke's misstep that inspired the "Taper Tantrum" in 2013, the market was well and truly softened up this time.
Back in June, the Fed presaged how it would extricate itself from the revolution in monetary policy called Quantitative Easing (QE).
So has QE worked and what impact will decommissioning it — Quantitative Tightening — have?
Briefly, the answer to the first part of the question will not be known until answers to the second part are tabled.
Back in 2008, the GFC — or the Great Recession as it is known in the US — was causing havoc and the Fed had run out of traditional monetary firepower having cut interest rates to zero with little or no effect.
In desperation, the plan was to conjure money out of thin air to buy mortgage backed securities (MBS) — the toxic sort of stuff that ignited the GFC in the first place — and treasury bonds to drive down long-term interest rates.
The idea was cheap credit would get business back on its feet and save the day. Tidying up the excesses of the money printing party would come at a later date.
That is where the Fed is now.
And it is quite a job to tidy everything up.
The printing presses were effectively turned off in October 2014. But before that three waves of QE, plus the allied Operation Twist, created $US3.5 trillion.
Pretty well all of that debt binge is still sitting on the Fed's $US4.5 trillion balance sheet, while the new money it released is still sloshing around the economy.

When QE1 was rolled out the US was mired in recession. It took a few quarters, but the economy did return to growth.
It suffered a couple more negative quarters — most recently in early 2014 — and a couple of near misses, but undeniably the economy is growing again.
The GDP numbers out later this week are expected to show year-on-year growth at around 3 per cent in the March quarter, although 2 per cent appears to be around the current longer term trend.

The impact on employment has been striking, taking the jobless rate down from a 16 year high to almost 4 per cent.
Given maximising employment is one of the Fed's mandates, it can point to jobs growth as one of the successes of its QE regime.

Another part of the Fed's mandate — stabilising prices — has not been so successful. In fact, it has been driving the Fed nuts.
The Fed like most of the key central banks has an inflation target. In the US it is 2 per cent, the RBA gives itself a degree of latitude of 2-to-3 per cent.
Even after pouring trillions into the economy and pumping up asset prices, such as the share market, inflation remains stubbornly low.

The inflation conundrum is particularly evident in the weak wages growth that has not recovered since the Great Recession.
Despite strong job creation, wage growth is half pre-GFC levels.
That result is central to the current debate about inequality and how the recovery has left behind the hardest hit by the excesses of financial engineers and the big banks.

Those investing in the stock market have been the big winners out of the waves of QE and Operation Twist.
The key index, the S&P500, has almost quadrupled since early 2009.
The easy money has driven the second longest bull run in US history as investors piled in looking for yield that the Fed had killed off in the bond market.
The low interest rates had another consequence of allowing companies to buy back swathes of the shares with cheap debt underwritten by the Fed, driving the market ever higher and the inequality gap wider.

The huge bull run is central to what could go wrong when Quantitative Tightening kicks in next month.
Basically the Fed plans to destroy a large part of the debt it has built up on its balance sheet by not rolling it over as it matures.
It just disappears into the rarefied financial air where it was created. Magic.
It starts modestly enough with $US6 billion in treasury bonds and $US4 billion in mortgage backed securities a month.
By the end of 2018 that will hit $US50 billion a month, or $US600 billion year.
At that pace, it should take three years to make half of the $US3.6 trillion it conjured up, simply disappear.
But just at QE inflated the market rapidly, it doesn't take much imagination to see what reversing it through QT could do.
It may well be half the money, but it is in half time as well.
The bears out there say yes.
So far the markets reaction has been muted.
But once QT gets rolling it will gain an almost unstoppable momentum. Only another meltdown is likely to halt it.
Not only will liquidity start drying up, it will be at a time when the Fed is attempting to get interest rates back to something approaching normal.

It has already started conventional tightening, with four hikes since late 2015. The December meeting should see a fifth.
It is a delicate job.
The Fed needs to build up its conventional interest rate buffer to prepare for the next down-turn, but without triggering a new one.
So far that process has seen a few wobbles, but nothing drastic.
Importantly, it hasn't put a brake on either the economy or job creation.
The biggest question is whether QE pushed the US economy up to a self-sustaining speed where it won't fall over again.
In other words did QE work its magic, or was it just all a dangerous and calamitously expensive conjuring trick?
QT is about to provide the answer.
Futures trading points to a modestly positive start to the week despite Wall Street's flat finish.

There are few top shelf items in the calendar. A couple of AGM's including one at AGL and herbicide maker, Nufarm trots out full year results.
The market will be looking at private sector credit (Friday) to see whether business lending is picking up as property lending cools.
Overseas, there is a blanket bombing of speeches from Fed and ECB officials. That doesn't necessarily lead to clarity though.
Commodities are likely to be where a fair bit of interest will centre.
Iron ore had a shocker last week. Spot prices sank another 4 per cent on Friday, bringing the weekly loss to 12 per cent.
It was the fourth straight week of losses and with Chinese demand on the wane and tougher air pollution controls starting in November, it is hard to see where a change in sentiment will come from.
Oil on the other hand, finished strongly, with the global benchmark Brent crude up 0.6 per cent to $56.41 a barrel.
Oil has risen more than 10 per cent in the past three weeks as evidence of the production cut deal between OPEC and Russia is holding.
There were words of caution out of the OPEC meeting in Vienna on Friday pointing to Libya and Nigeria — two troubled producers exempt from the deal — rapidly expanding their pumping, keeping a lid on price rises and slowing the removal of the glut.
Monday
25/9/2017
Tuesday
26/9/2017
Wednesday
27/9/2017
Thursday
28/9/2017
Friday
29/9/2017
Monday
25/9/2017
Tuesday
26/9/2017
Wednesday
27/9/2017
Thursday
28/9/2017
Friday
29/9/2017


Victorians will be able to pay their car registration in quarterly or half-yearly instalments from January, two years after the Government flagged introducing the measure to help low-income families struggling with their bills.
The option will be available for cars, utes, vans, motorcycles and other light vehicles, and can be taken up by anyone regardless of income.
Consumer rights groups have been urging the Victorian Government to consider changes for years, and in 2015 the Andrews Government flagged introducing quarterly payments for low-income families.
Victorian Roads Minister Luke Donnellan said the VicRoads IT system had to be upgraded before the instalment option could be introduced.
"It'll be ready to go on January 1, 2018, but we needed to upgrade the IT system to accommodate the approximately five million transaction per year," he said.

The Government said there would a $2.45 administration fee per transaction to cover costs for people who take up the option.
Mr Donnellan said smaller registration payments every three or six months would help Victorians struggling to make ends meet.
"Cars are very important in terms of mobility, in terms of job opportunities, and in terms of running a family," he said.
"People can actually in a sense budget for this and this is very much something they'll welcome because $200 and 20 cents is a lot more affordable than paying 800 and 80 cents all at once."
The Victorian Council of Social Services is one group that has pushed for change.

Its CEO Emma King said the annual registration bill was s source of dread for many families.
"It's like an annual wrecking ball through the family budget — most people don't have that sort of cash laying around," she said.
"Being able to pay in small, regular and manageable instalments makes sense.
"Many other government payments can be made by instalments. The car rego shouldn't be any different."
The Government said there would a $2.45 administration fee per transaction to cover costs for people who take up the option.


Producers in Northern Australia have had a chance to show off their best and unique industries with the first ever Nuffield Scholars Conference held in Darwin.
Hundreds of scholars from across the globe travelled to the Top End to hear all about the potential, limitations and dreams for Northern Australia.

The Nuffield Scholar Foundation was launched in Britain in 1947 and since then, hundreds of farmers have been awarded the life-changing scholarship to travel overseas and study an agricultural topic of their choice.
Ashley Severin was the first ever Northern Territory recipient in 1986.
He and wife Lindy Severin run Curtin Springs Station in Central Australia and have successfully diversified by running a busy tourism operation, as well as setting up a paper mill to produce high-end stationary made out of the natural grasses and unique flora in the region.
"The landscape is just magnificent and cattle are in peak condition so can't ask much more than that".
Lyndee Severin said because of the advice they could seek through Nuffield Scholar they were willing to take greater gambles in their business.
"Whatever you are doing somebody has done more and bigger and taken bigger risk and survived doesn't always work and there are others at the end other end and sometimes there the most important to go well what happened."
Adam Coffey is a first generation pastoralist who has worked right across the Northern belt of Australia on various cattle stations, and was the 2016 Nuffield Scholar.
He used his funding to look at how better to rear tropical cattle and believes Northern producers need to focus more on intensifying land production rather than spreading cattle over vast tracts of land.
"I took a lot away from my travels through Brazil and South America and we hear so much about Brazil and their production powerhouses … and they are."

Dan Richards runs Humpty Doo Barramundi and the family business is one of the largest operations in the world.
He said he travelled from desert to ocean, including Saudi Arabia and Norway to better understand aquaculture industries in other big seafood producing countries.
"I used my opportunity to investigate if barramundi could be the white fish equivalent of salmon."

Another big push by the program is getting farmers to be better at telling their own stories in a world that's increasingly urbanised.
For first generation pastoralist Adam Coffey, the Nuffield is about getting the word out.
"We got to believe in what we do, we got to know what we do is right and we got to tell people about it," he said.


South Australian Treasurer Tom Koutsantonis has spent two days touring Tesla facilities in California ahead of Elon Musk's visit to Adelaide this week as part of the International Astronautical Congress.
The State Government announced a partnership with US company Tesla and entrepreneur Elon Musk to build a 100MW storage battery in the state's mid north earlier this year.
The battery is due to be in place by summer, and Mr Musk is expected to give an update on the project while in Adelaide later this week.
Mr Koutsantonis held a meeting on Thursday with Tesla executives at the company's Fremont factory, a former General Motors plant.
He then travelled to Nevada to tour the Gigafactory where elements of South Australia's big battery will be built.
"The management and staff have a real sense of excitement about our battery installation," Mr Koutsantonis said.
"South Australia is really at the cutting edge as we implement our energy plan to secure a cleaner, more affordable and more secure energy network."
Mr Koutsantonis also travelled to the United Kingdom where he toured a number of the Gupta Family Group's businesses.
The Gupta family owns GFG Alliance, which has bought the steelworks in Whyalla.
"It was fascinating to see the vertical integration of Sanjeev Gupta's businesses in the UK," Mr Koutsantonis said.
"From Formula One and A380 components to sheet steel rolling and biomass plant manufacturing, GFG and Simec have come a long way in the past 24 months."


China has announced it will limit oil supplies to North Korea under UN sanctions over its nuclear and missile development, further reducing support from Pyongyang's last major trading partner and diplomatic ally.

The Commerce Ministry said China, the North's main energy supplier, would ban all exports of liquified natural gas and condensates.
Exports of refined petroleum to the North will be limited to two million barrels per year from October 1, the Commerce Ministry said.
China does not disclose details of trade with the isolated North, so it was not immediately clear how large the possible reduction might be.
There will also be a ban on textile imports from the North, the ministry said.

Textiles are one of North Korea's last major sources of foreign revenue following repeated rounds of UN sanctions under which Beijing cut off purchases of coal, iron ore, seafood and other goods.
China accounts for some 90 per cent of the North's trade, making its cooperation critical to any efforts to derail Pyongyang's development of nuclear weapons and long-range missiles.
Until recently, China had propped up North Korea with a continuous supply of oil across the border and diplomatic protection.
They are reluctant to push Pyongyang too hard for fear the government might collapse, and argue against doing anything that might hurt ordinary North Koreans.
But Beijing is expressing increasing frustration with the actions of Kim Jong-un and has supported the latest rounds of UN Security Council sanctions.
Petroleum exports for use in the North's ballistic missile program or other activities are banned by UN sanctions, the Commerce Ministry said.
Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull has welcomed the news, saying the rogue nation must be restricted.
"I have to say that China is showing a real commitment to work with the rest of the global community to bring this regime to its senses," he said.
"It is a reckless and dangerous regime that is essentially engaging in thuggery and standover tactics."
China's move comes days after US President Donald Trump ordered new sanctions on the hermit state and warned the US could "totally destroy" Pyongyang if it threatened the US or its allies.
The North called Mr Trump "deranged" and said the regime may consider testing a hydrogen bomb in the Pacific Ocean.

ABC/wires


At a time when quality journalism appears to be under threat, a growing chorus has accused technology companies of succeeding at the expense of shrinking newsrooms.
Richard Gingras, the vice president of Google News, says the search giant is helping media companies move toward online subscription models and is ready to "engage" with Australian politicians in a looming Senate inquiry.
"People are coming into the market with new video services, with new video content. It is a very competitive environment.
"I just want to be careful in how we characterise that. This isn't Google's doing. It's the fact that we have a very rich and open marketplace for content."
"We helped 2 million publishers around the world with ad systems help drive revenue. But there's no question that the economics of news has changed."
"The big change in the last 25 years has been the introduction of the internet. The internet changed everything.
"In a sense, it's been what I like to think of as free expression brought to life — that's fabulous, right. I think everyone around the world has access to information and knowledge that they never had before.
"But it's also changed the marketplace for information. It's changed the marketplace for advertising."

"The market has changed. We're seeing great evidence of people that are more willing to subscribe to news products than we've seen before.
"We're also seeing more publishers putting up paywalls. That's a good step forward."
"News traffic went down and small publishers were hurt more than large publishers.
"Which only proved the point, that aggregation services have an amplifying effect on news audiences."
"We will certainly engage, I'm here this week, frankly talking to people in the public policy space.
"I'm sure we'll have many more conversations.
"We want to make sure that we have the opportunity to share our perspective, to make sure people understand our businesses and how they work."


London has stripped Uber of its licence to operate from the end of this month in a huge blow to the ride-booking app that will affect more than 40,000 drivers in one of the world's biggest cities.

Transport for London (TfL) said the ride-sharing app was not "fit and proper to hold a private hire operator license".
"TfL considers that Uber's approach and conduct demonstrate a lack of corporate responsibility in relation to a number of issues which have potential public safety and security implications," TfL said in a statement.
Uber, which is used by 3.5 million passengers in London, will see its current license expire on September 30.
The company said it plans to appeal the regulator's decision. It is able to continue operating until the appeals process is exhausted.
In its decision, TfL cited the company's approach to handling serious criminal offences and how it conducts background checks on its drivers.
TfL also took issue with software that could be used to block regulatory bodies from gaining full access to the app and "preventing officials from undertaking regulator or law enforcement duties".
London Mayor Sadiq Khan said he supported the decision, saying any operator of taxi services in the city "needs to play by the rules".
"Providing an innovative service must not be at the expense of customer safety and security," he said.
"I fully support TfL's decision — it would be wrong if TfL continued to license Uber if there is any way that this could pose a threat to Londoners' safety and security."
Uber shot back quickly in response, and accused the city of caving into special interests "who want to restrict consumer choice".
"This ban would show the world that, far from being open, London is closed to innovative companies who bring choice to consumers," the company said.

The decision does not effect Uber's associated food delivery service, UberEATS, a spokesperson confirmed, but shares in rival company Just Eat shot up on the back of the regulator's decision.
Police in London accused Uber last month of not reporting a sexual assault by a driver on a passenger, allowing the driver to strike again.
Metropolitan Police Inspector Neil Billany suggested in a letter that the company was putting concerns for its reputation over public safety.
Uber's aggressive corporate culture has resulted in litigation around the world.
The ride-booking app is now effectively banned in France, Spain and Belgium, and it is facing litigation and investigations around the world, a business expert said.
"There is a very long list of businesses who have suffered for failing to uphold the level of values necessary," said John Colley, a strategy professor at Warwick Business School.
"Until Uber gets this message then it will suffer lost trade as a result of its deteriorating reputation."
AP/


Papua New Guinea's Government has conceded it lost hundreds of millions of dollars on a controversial deal to buy a stake in Australian-listed oil and gas company Oil Search.
PNG Government-owned company Kumul Petroleum Holdings has sold its 10 per cent stake in Oil Search, closing a complicated and costly loan worth $1.2 billion.
"The board has made a commercial decision to divest itself of the Oil Search shares," chairman Sir Moi Avei said.
"My job as chairman is to protect the interests of Kumul Petroleum, nothing more than that."
The PNG Government took the loan from the Australian arm of Swiss bank UBS in 2014 to buy shares in Oil Search, a joint venture partner in PNG's biggest resources development, the $19 billion US PNG LNG project.
It controversially mortgaged its expected revenue from the project for the loan and did not pass legislation in Parliament enabling the transaction.
That failure to get parliamentary approval led to Prime Minister Peter O'Neill being referred to a leadership tribunal for allegedly failing to comply with "administrative and financial processes including the normal borrowing process".
But despite welcoming the tribunal as a chance to clear his name, Mr O'Neill fought the referral in the courts and the tribunal was not convened.
Mr O'Neill also sacked his Treasurer, Don Polye, for failing to support the loan and alleging it was illegal.
He promoted the deal as a win for PNG at the time.
"The purchase of these shares is an investment in the key resource infrastructure of our country," Mr O'Neill said in 2014.
But Oil Search's share price has since fallen by about 20 per cent.
The complicated — and confidential — nature of the loan makes it difficult to work out just how much money the Government lost, even for Kumul Petroleum Holdings managing director Wapu Sonk.
"That's a hard number to come up with at the moment," he said.
But Mr Sonk conceded the deal cost Kumul Petroleum at least $US254 million for the interest and payment of a bridging loan at the start of the deal.

Economist Paul Flanagan, a former adviser to the PNG Treasury, said the total loss would be much higher than that.
"We don't know the total cost of this poor decision to get the Government involved in what should always have been a private company matter," he said.
"But it would be running into many hundreds of millions of kina and this would have been money much better spent on areas of high priority such as health and education."
A key reason the PNG Government sold its shares was to avoid repaying the loan.
But Mr Flanagan said the Oil Search deal will still have long-term, negative implications for the country.
"There's been an extraordinary lack of transparency hiding behind the arguments that the loan agreements are commercial in confidence," he said.
"The people of PNG, the taxpayers of PNG, deserve a lot more transparency to know exactly what went on and for those involved in the initial decisions that have proven to be very poor decisions, there should be more scope to hold them to account."
The ABC sought a response from the PNG Prime Minister's Office, but was yet to hear back.


Iron ore and coal prices have continued to tumble as China was hit by a credit downgrade and fears demand for steel was falling.

The most heavily traded iron ore futures contract on the Dalian exchange was down another 3.4 per cent in afternoon trade, to be down more than 7 per cent for the week and 18 per cent off its recent peak a month ago.
Spot iron ore prices have fallen even more to about $US66 a tonne, its lowest level since May.
Another key component in steel making, coking coal, is down more than 10 per cent over the week, while futures trading in rebar steel — used in reinforced concrete and construction — has seen prices dip 5 per cent in recent days.
The latest bad news for the market was the big global credit ratings agency Standard and Poor's downgrading China's creditworthiness a notch to A+.
In announcing the downgrade, Standard and Poor's said China's economic and financial risks had increased after a prolonged period of strong credit growth.
Standard and Poor's downgrade follows a similar move by the other big ratings agencies Moody's and Fitch earlier this year.
An array of weaker data, including industrial production and infrastructure spending, as well as tighter credit conditions, dimmed sentiment in the commodity-dealing rooms throughout Asia.

On top of that, Chinese authorities demanded production cuts of up to 50 per cent in key steel-producing centres to reduce air pollution ahead of winter.
Credit Suisse recently forecast the slow down would translate to a 70-million-tonne drop in demand in the months ahead, leaving spot iron ore prices averaging about $US55 a tonne through to Christmas.
Rio Tinto's announcement that it would return the $US2.5 billion ($3.2 billion) proceeds from its Coal and Allied sale to shareholders through a buyback mitigated the damage on the ASX.
Rio shares edged up 1 per cent in early afternoon trade, while BHP was flat, although over the week both are down more than 1 per cent.


The scandal-plagued CommInsure brand could disappear over time as its new owner introduces new products, AIA Group regional chief executive Bill Lisle has conceded.

Speaking after the Commonwealth Bank announced the $3.8 billion sale of its troubled life insurance arm to the Hong Kong listed company, Mr Lisle confirmed fallout from the CommInsure scandal was an issue as the deal was hammered out.
"That was obviously a key part of the consideration," Mr Lisle said.
"But that was top of mind in the market for our board and our shareholders and we feel that CBA are taking the right course of action.
"We understood the reputational challenges.
"As you can imagine we did a lot of due diligence, we had independent third parties to investigate so we understood some of the challenges.
"But I think things will move along as they inevitably do."
Asked by the ABC if the CommInsure brand passed the "sniff test" for shareholders Mr Lisle said "absolutely — otherwise we would not have done the deal".
While the Commonwealth Bank said the CommInsure brand would be retained under a 20 year agreement for existing life products, Mr Lisle would not guarantee AIA's long-term commitment to the CommInsure name.
"We'll look at that as we move forward. I think it could depend on specific products," he said.
"But you would imagine over a five to 10 year period, just through normal product evolution, that products will change."
Mr Lisle responded cautiously when asked if AIA could be described as a "white knight" by assisting the CBA in offloaded the CommInsure life business.
"I'll leave it to you to comment on that. I couldn't. But what I will say is that we're very happy with the deal," Mr Lisle said.
The transition of CommInsure life products is expected to take three to four months. CommInsure will continue to offer general insurance products.
However, AIA's purchase of CommInsure Life will be subject to approval from the Foreign Investment Review Board.

Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter @peter_f_ryan and on his Main Street blog.


Australia's regional banks are urging a Productivity Commission inquiry to tackle the growing market power and "too big to fail" nature of Australia's big four banks.

In a joint submission lodged today, regional banks call on the Federal Government to tell international ratings agencies it would be prepared to help all banks in the event of an economic crisis.
The Productivity Commission will be conducting a year-long probe into competition in the financial system.
It will look at whether the big four — Westpac, ANZ, CBA and the NAB — have an unfair advantage over smaller regional players though the Government's implicit guarantee for bank deposits.
Treasurer Scott Morrison hit the big banks with a controversial levy in the May budget, in a move that was welcomed by the smaller players as acknowledgement that major banks receive special funding advantages.
Bank of Queensland chief executive Jon Sutton singled out the implicit guarantee of bank deposits, which he said tilted the playing field in favour of the major banks by underpinning their credit rating.
"Because [major banks] are too big to fail and they are systemically important institutions in the financial landscape of Australia, they do enjoy a superior credit rating compared to a regional bank," he said.
"That implicit guarantee, some would say an explicit guarantee, means that they can access those funds cheaper.
"Ratings agencies look at that and the fact that the major banks enjoy a higher credit rating than regional banks, [which] means they get a funding benefit."


Earlier this year, S&P Global Ratings downgraded Australia's country risk assessment.
But ratings for major banks were left unchanged because of expectations that they would receive government backing in the event of a crisis, such as a housing correction.
However, because expected government support was not factored in, 23 financial institutions including Bank of Queensland and Bendigo and Adelaide Bank were downgraded.
Mr Sutton said despite the Government's push for greater competition, regional banks remained at a competitive disadvantage because of the systemic weight of major banks on the economy.
"If I lend you money for a home loan, you have the same risk characteristic as if one of the Big Four banks lent you the money," Mr Sutton said.
"But we have to put away $3.50 of capital for every dollar of that home loan, while a major bank only puts away $2 of capital.
"So therefore there is a significant gap between a big four bank and a regional bank."
Mr Sutton also warned that the outlook for rising interest rates — possibly two next year — could pressure highly leveraged households.
"We take our obligations very seriously to ensure that when our customers come to us to take out a loan, that they can pay it back," Mr Sutton said.
"We're in a very low interest rate environment and everyone needs to be mindful that if rates return to more normalised levels, what is the impact for households?"
The joint submission to the Productivity Commission has been lodged on behalf of Bank of Queensland, ME Bank, Bendigo & Adelaide Bank, Suncorp and AMP.
The inquiry has so far received 29 submissions, including ones from the Commonwealth Bank, the Reserve Bank, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority and the Australian Bankers Association.
Mr Morrison commissioned the inquiry on the recommendation of the Financial System Inquiry, led by former Commonwealth Bank chief executive David Murray.
The terms of reference said "the high concentration… in some parts of the Australian financial system has the potential to limit the benefits of competition in the future and should be proactively monitored over time".
The Productivity Commission has been scheduled to deliver its final report by July 2018.
Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter @peter_f_ryan and on his Main Street blog.


What comes up must come down.
Sir Isaac Newton's oft-quoted law of gravity can also be applied to the movements of the US stock market.

After closing at "record highs" for days, Wall Street finished lower this morning with sell-offs across most industry sectors.
Eight out of 10 S&P sectors finished in negative territory, with telecommunications, healthcare and technology being among the bottom performers.
This follows the Federal Reserve's decision on Thursday, when it decided not to lift interest rates this month, but signalled there may be a rate hike by the end of the year.
The likelihood of an interest rate lift by December are about 70 per cent, according to CME's FedWatch tool.  Before the Fed release its monetary policy statement, the probability was lower at 51 per cent.
If that prediction comes true, it would be the third interest rate rise for America this year.
Apple's share price fell more than 1.7 per cent and were a major drag on the US stock market. This may be due to negative reports about its latest iPhone and smartwatch.
Investors are speculating that demand and pre-orders for the iPhone 8 will be underwhelming, compared to previous models.
According to , Apple conceded that its Apple Watch Series 3 has problems making phone calls and accessing data without an iPhone nearby — its most important features.
NVidia, Microsoft, and Procter & Gamble were also heavily sold-off.
In contrast, financials (+0.2pc) and industrials (+0.3pc) were the only sectors which ended the day with gains.
Shares of Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, and Bank of America all traded above 0.4 per cent.
With the sea of red in markets overnight, and an uninspiring lead from Wall Street, ASX futures have gained one-third of a per cent.
These mixed signals indicate the Australian share market may open flat this morning.
Commodity prices also plunged overnight, with gold falling to a one-month low of $1,291 an ounce.
Iron ore plunged by 5 percent overnight to $US66.09 dollars per tonne — its lowest level since July — as concerns about China's future demand for Australia's key export persist.
In addition, the local currency has fallen below the very-high 80 US cent mark, with one Australian dollar now worth 79.3 US cents.
The Australian dollar began to weaken after a speech by Reserve Bank governor Philip Lowe's speech on Thursday, which the market interpreted as "dovish".
Dr Lowe noted that overseas economies beginning to raise their interest rates.
"This has no automatic implications for monetary policy in Australia," he said.
The RBA governor also indicated that Australian interest rates will remain at low (at 1.5 per cent) in the meantime.
"Aussie financials will continue to be a key driver of the ASX 200," IG Market's chief market strategist Chris Weston said.
"And it's clear all the recent talk of potential rate hikes in 2018 from the RBA is not good for banks."


The loss of a small town's biggest employer might be enough to bring some communities to their knees, but not Ravensthorpe in Western Australia's south-east.
It has had plenty of practise weathering the boom/bust cycles of both mining and agriculture, and while some residents are packing their bags, many say they are not going anywhere.
Low nickel prices prompted First Quantum Minerals (FQM) to announce last month it would be mothballing its nickel mine.
The Toronto-based mining giant employed about 270 people at the Ravensthorpe mine, and the closure follows devastating floods which swept through the area earlier this year.
But this is not the first time, or even the second time, Ravensthorpe has been hit by a mine closure — this time residents were prepared.
Former FQM worker Jason Jones, who now farms near Hopetoun, said the company's announcement did not come as a surprise.

He said unlike the sudden BHP shut down in 2008, local people could see the First Quantum mine was struggling long before the announcement to put it into care and maintenance.
"The closure of the mine was not a huge shock, a lot of people have positioned themselves for it," Mr Jones said
He also said agriculture had long been the backbone of the local economy and the prospects of a good cropping season had buoyed the community.
As president of the Southerners Sporting Association, Mr Jones watched the steady decline of mine workers in the local football hockey and netball teams.
But he said the sporting groups would find ways to carry on.
"With the mine closing we will lose a lot of sponsorship, but in saying that our local businesses support us just as much," Mr Jones said.
"I view [the future] very positively. Agriculture and tourism underpin it.
"I like to think that we as a community can support each other. If there's big players in town so be it, but we are bigger than them anyway."
Sue Leighton was involved with BHP's initial opening up of the nickel mine in 2007.
A decade on, and with the mine shutting down for a second time, she also believed the long-term future of Ravensthorpe and Hopetoun rested with agriculture and tourism.
Ms Leighton is an organiser of the Ravensthorpe Wildflower Show.
She said thousands of people travel to the area for its unique flora, and there have been record visitor numbers to this year's show, which ends on Saturday.
"We've already got bookings from tour buses for next year for tourists to come to our wildflower show, so it's really important [as] they always spend a bit of money in town," she said.
"I always think farming goes up and down, mining comes and goes, wildflowers are here forever and that's our future, eco tourism."

Ravensthorpe Shire chief executive Ian Fitzgerald said there was no doubt the floods and the mine closure made for a tough year for the area.
It is estimated 30 children would leave the Hopetoun Primary School at the end of this term.
"I think over the next six weeks we'll feel the impact of those leaving the community, as school goes into holiday mode and people take the opportunity to move if they need to," Mr Fitzgerald said.
However, it wasn't all bad news.
"First Quantum keeping a care and maintenance crew on of 15 to 20 people will be good for the community," he said.
Stronger prices for lithium have also given the area a boost.
Some of the nickel mine workers have moved over to Galaxy Resources' lithium mine, just north of Ravensthorpe.
Galaxy closed Mt Cattlin in 2013, but reopened it several years later on the back of stronger lithium prices.

Mine manager Brian Talbot said the company had made it a policy to hire as many Ravensthorpe and Hopetoun residents as possible — with locals making up more than 80 per cent of Galaxy's staff at the site.
"Our mandate as a company is to employ local, and if we can't employ local then to relocate them to be local," he said.
"Ravensthorpe feels very positive to be part of the lithium boom and for a small town like Ravensthorpe to be part of that in the future sounds quite exciting and I think the people can feel that."
The State Government said at the time of FQM's announcement it would seek to assist those who were to be laid off.
Mines and Petroleum Minister Bill Johnston will visit the area this weekend to meet Shire of Ravensthorpe representatives, First Quantum Minerals management and workers.


Fossil beer is the latest innovation for a South Australian brewer, as more craft beer makers get creative to stand out in a crowded market.
Kangaroo Island brewer Mike Holden is set to release a 'shale ale' beer, commemorating 10 years of fossil research on the South Australian island.
Mr Holden said the ale was filtered through fossil-rich shale that was more than half a billion years old.
"We just thought for this one, why not let the millions of years of shale rock speak for itself and see what comes through?" he said.
"The beer definitely has a unique flavour to it, but it is not something that is off-putting or maybe something that people will not even recognise."

Kangaroo Island is known as prime hunting ground for palaeontologists, with researchers finding 500-million-year-old "alien-looking" fossils in 2014.

This year marks a decade of fossil digging at the island's Emu Bay for University of New England professor John Paterson and his University of Adelaide colleague Diego Garcia-Bellido.
Over the past 10 years, it is estimated the team has collected about 6,000 specimens for the South Australian Museum.
Professor Paterson said the shale used as part of the brew was estimated to be about 514 million years old.
"They are from a very special time in Earth's history called the Cambrian … this is when we started to see the first marine animals appearing on Earth," he said.
"What we are digging up is some of the oldest marine animals on the planet.
"We get very fine preservation, even down to finding muscle tissues and the lenses within the eyes of some of these strange arthropod creatures."
Australia's craft beer industry is growing at a rapid rate, with an estimated 400-plus craft brewers now plying their trade.

Independent Brewers Association executive officer Chris McNamara said producers were finding their niche through the idea of beers with backstories or a sense of place.
"It is a crowded marketplace out there at the moment, and is getting more crowded by the day," he said.
"Small brewers are an innovative mob, so they are always looking for a different spin to put on their beer."
Mr Holden agreed, saying many consumers could establish a rapport with particular drinks based on their backstory.
"People enjoy the story of beer," he said.
"We have always tried to make sure there is a link in our beers to where we are.
"The story is there, and people can either choose to just drink a beer like it is anything else, or get involved and learn something about it as well."


As Australia and Indonesia edge closer to securing a bilateral trade deal, a lack of confidence in each other has been one of the major barriers.

That is according to Indonesia's chief trade negotiator Iman Pambagyo, who in an interview with the ABC, said more political will and guidance from the leaders of the two countries will be needed for an agreement to be secured.
He said Australia would also need to open its doors to Indonesian workers.
"I think between now and then it seems that we lack confidence in each other," Mr Pambagyo, the director-general for International Trade Negotiations, said.
"But I think with the visit between the two ministers the atmosphere is getting better and better."
Trade Minister Steve Ciobo was in Jakarta this week for the 17th meeting with his Indonesian counterpart Enggartiaso Lutika.
The ministers announced a new self-imposed November deadline for the deal, a month earlier than had previously been outlined, but neither would comment on the details of negotiations.
Both countries say it will be a "win, win" agreement, but that can only be tested once the details are unveiled.
It is hard to fathom that Indonesia will give too much away; the nation has always been protectionist and President Joko Widodo has done nothing to rid the country of that reputation.
In fact, since he came to the presidency in 2014, import tariffs on a range of goods have been increased.
"I should admit that we sometimes send the wrong signal to our partners not only to Australia but to our negotiating partners," Mr Pambagyo said.
The chief negotiator said a key element of the deal for Indonesia would be training for Indonesian workers across a range of sectors including health, tourism and IT.
For instance, the training of Indonesian nurses would take place in Australia, although there was concern how it would succeed unless they had strong English skills.
"I understand that it might be quite challenging for Australia to just open its doors to our workers to work in Australia but I think we can find some ways to deal with it," he said.

Whether what eventuates is a "free" trade deal in the true sense is unlikely, both Governments prefer to stick to the official, clunky title the "Indonesia-Australia Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement", or IA-CEPA.
Already Australia has removed altogether the tariff on herbicides and pesticides coming from Indonesia, while Indonesia will reduce to 5 per cent a tariff on Australian raw sugar.
Two-way trade between Australia and Indonesia is remarkably low at around $15 billion.
Indonesia, a nation of 250 million people, is Australia's 12th-largest trading partner.
Mr Pambagyo could not quantify by how much the deal would boost the dollar figure, and said the focus should be more on investment and people-to-people links than on the trading of goods.
"We have to find the right button for the negotiators to accelerate the process of negotiation," he said of the trade talks.
The deal, regardless of detail, will be seen as a significant step in the bilateral relationship and a sign of it strengthening.


Hundreds of the world's brightest young scientists and students have descended upon Adelaide this week for the 16th Space Generation Congress, an annual gathering of budding space professionals under 35.
NASA and the European Space Agency are also in attendance, outlining their bold plans for the future and, according to at least one scientist, creating a level of interest amongst the wider community not seen in years.
"Because space exploration is a long-term kind of vision of things, you have to actually engage the young people," said Jason Crusan, director of Advanced Exploration Systems at NASA.
"You're seeing a resurging interest in public support for doing the hard things."
The Space Generation Congress (SGC) is being run as a curtain raiser to the International Astronautical Congress, which gets underway next week.

Some of the largest space agencies and companies, including Elon Musk's SpaceX, are in attendance.
The three-day SGC gathering is about exposing young professionals to the cosmic challenges facing humanity and introducing them to the career prospects which lie ahead.
"The technology has finally gotten to a point and the economics are there for a lot of activities," he said.
"Right now, we're in production of the our next-generation launch vehicles and crew transportation systems and what's exciting to me is that we're building the infrastructure and the spaceships which will take us out into deep space.
"It's always been 20 years away. But we actually have real contracts, real hardware being developed for these systems today."
For the next few days, students and young professionals will be learning from space agencies at the cosmic coalface.
They include the European Space Agency, which is leading workshops on the prospects of commercializing the moon by encouraging non-space industry to develop lunar programs.

NASA is outlining its plans to get humanity off our orb, including a manned mission to Mars in the 2030s.
"At the end of the day we want to be able to go anywhere, anytime we want to go," Mr Crusan said.
"That means places like the moon or Mars or even fly-bys of Venus."
With emerging private operators like Amazon founder Jeff Bezos' Blue Origin, NASA believes that the growing commercial space industry has a big role to play in getting us into deep space.
"We want to utilise that entire industrial base to send humans out into the solar system for the first time," Mr Crusan said.

As to the most fundamental question as to why leave the Earth at all, Mr Crusan was both philosophical and pragmatically practical.
"If we stop doing the hard things, I think we stop being human," he said.
"Space is one of those things that inspires people to do hard things."
He quickly added that any breakthroughs navigating the solar system would deliver rewards on our pale blue dot.
"[Space enthusiasts] go into other fields. They make the next medical breakthrough, the next agricultural breakthrough, and that goes towards solving all those hard problems here."


Almost six months to the day since Tropical Cyclone Debbie hit north Queensland, the region is poised for the arrival of another force of nature — British superstar Elton John.
Sir Elton will play tonight in Mackay and next Saturday in Cairns, with performances in Wollongong and Hobart in between.

The four dates are the 70-year-old singer's only public shows on his Australian tour, which is largely sold out but now has limited tickets in some locations.
Fifteen thousand visitors are expected at tonight's Mackay performance, with 5,000 of that number travelling from outside the region, including 200 from overseas.


Mackay Mayor Greg Williamson said the Once In A Lifetime tour would generate more than $4 million for the local economy.
The city has unveiled a permanent Yellow Brick Road mural in tribute to the performer's 1970s album, and will kick on with an Elton-themed street party on Saturday.
The road to the stadium, once called Casey Ave, has been renamed Elton John Drive.
"[The mural] is going to be a lasting legacy and we hope it's going to be here for decades, to just prove the fact that Elton was here in Mackay for a once in a lifetime event in 2017," Cr Williamson said.
"All of the things that are happening for this week, I've got to say we are extremely proud because this is a fantastic Mackay event."

Superfan Vicky Crichton studied Elton John trivia for 10 days to win two front row tickets to the show, which happens to be the night before her birthday.
Ms Crichton from Sarina, south of Mackay, said she had loved Elton John since she was a girl singing along to Crocodile Rock with her sisters.

"I grew up with him and just love his music," she said.
"The only other chance I ever had he came to Townsville … but I had young children then and it just wasn't the right time and I was absolutely heartbroken.
"I swore that if I ever, ever got another chance to see Elton anywhere in the world I would, and it just so happened that it popped up in my backyard.
"It was just meant to be, the night of my birthday, it all just came together."
Ms Crichton prepared 18 written pages of notes for a competition held by a local radio station, where she had to answer questions about the singer's past albums, family, and charity work.
"I knew a lot about him but when I realised there were two front row tickets available I went into Google overdrive," she said.
"I was pretty highly strung. I had all these Elton questions going around my head for 10 days. I was off the planet probably."

Sir Elton's tour promoter Matthew Lazarus-Hall said the singer wanted to tour places he had never played in before.
"He loves being different and he loves performing, so when we sat down on the last tour and worked out what we wanted to do, he was like 'This is a great idea, let's do it'," he said.
"I've worked on a lot of Elton shows and I've never seen a dud one, so he will give this 120 per cent, it will be fantastic, it'll be a lot of the hits, and you're in for a great time."
He will be on stage for two-and-a-half hours from 8:00pm, with Australian band Busby Marou as the support act.


As power prices continue to surge, Australians believe household solar storage batteries are the key to cheaper and more reliable energy, according to a new poll of 2,000 households.

The Climate Council found nearly three-quarters of those surveyed believe batteries, coupled with solar systems, would become commonplace within 10 years.
Of those who already had solar systems, 68 per cent were considering adding a household storage battery.
Most said the primary motivation for buying a solar battery was to reduce power bills.
Only 6 per cent believed consumers were driven by the need to protect their homes from blackouts.

"It shows that Australians do understand that renewables — particularly solar and increasingly battery storage — provide a solution to high power prices," the Climate Council's Andrew Stock said.
"I think it's very encouraging that Australians really do get the importance of new technology. There is very little appetite for keeping aging coal fire stations running in the Australian populace, frankly," he said.


New South Wales resident Murray Green installed a home battery last year.
"Right now, it's not really worth it to feed the electricity back into the grid so using the battery to store the power and then consume it yourself, it just seemed like a better way to use the solar panels," he said.
"Power prices are going up and so it makes sense to try to reduce the amount of power you're buying from the grid. I think now for me, the higher the prices go, the sooner the system will pay off."
"It protects us against price rises in the future."
The price of storage batteries in the first half of 2017 only dropped by 5 per cent on the back of a significant fall at the end of last year.
Consultancy firm Sunwiz founder Warwick Johnston said while the number of battery installations had doubled from last year, many people were waiting for the price of batteries to drop significantly.
"We expect to see a price reduction of 30 per cent in the next couple of years," Mr Johnston said.
It's currently estimated to take 10 years to pay back the initial outlay for a solar and storage system, with batteries only having a decade-long shelf life.
Mr Johnston said he expected there would be a surge in uptake when it took only seven years to recoup the cost of the battery.

Andrew Stock, who has more than 40 years of experience in the energy industry, said in some areas people should not wait for the price to drop.
"In some states that have high power prices, analysis shows it's economical now to install batteries. Sunny states like South Australia and Queensland have relatively high power prices, so its quite economic to install battery systems," Mr Stock said.

"It is many, many times more expensive to import [electricity] so if you can install batteries, if they are modest in size and you have solar on your roof, that will allow you to offset that expensive power you draw from the grid," he said.
Energy economist and director of Carbon and Energy Markets, Bruce Mountain, agreed South Australians would benefit from installing batteries sooner rather than later.
"That is simply because battery and solar prices have come down, and in South Australia energy prices have gone up so much," Mr Mountain said.
Mr Mountain said he wanted the Federal Government to invest more in the local industry to bring down solar battery costs, instead of seeking to subsidise coal fire power generators like Liddell.
"They can accelerate the installation of these batteries, they can grow a local equipment suppliers and often than incentive creates new industry and scale economies," Mr Mountain said.
"The household would benefit, but the system as a whole would benefit as well, because a household of battery and solar gives to the grid a far more stable demand," he said.


Fairfax Media has warned that its revenues are down 4-5 per cent on last year's levels, as it prepares to reveal its Domain separation plan as early as Friday.
In a statement to the share market, the struggling media company reported falling revenue for all parts of its business, except the real estate advertising arm that is about to be split-off.
The worst decline in revenue was for metro media — which includes the company's major mastheads, The Age, The Sydney Morning Herald and the Australian Financial Review — where gross earnings are down 11 per cent so far this financial year compared to last.
Australian Community Media, the local newspapers division, has seen a 10 per cent revenue slide.
Stuff, the New Zealand media division, has also seen revenues fall 10 per cent, while the Macquarie Media radio division has reported a 4 per cent drop in earnings.
The only part of the business to observe revenue growth was Domain, where gross earnings rose 13 per cent on the back of a 22 per cent rise in digital revenue.
However, even there, costs were expected to be up 13 per cent on last financial year's $206 million, excluding any additional costs related to Domain's separation from the rest of the company.
Fairfax said it made Thursday's updated financial disclosure ahead of "the potential lodgement" of details about the Domain separation with the ASX on September 22.
The company said Thursday's financial update will replace the usual disclosure provided at the annual general meeting, which will be on November 2.
Fairfax said it is continuing to implement cost saving measures across the group.


The South Australian Government says it wants to capitalise on the fast-growing multi-billion dollar business around space, announcing the creation of a South Australian Space Industry Centre.
The Government said the centre (SASIC) would help to fuel space industry innovation, encourage start-ups and create high-tech jobs.
The announcement comes ahead of the International Astronautical Congress which is being held in Adelaide next week, with some of the largest space agencies and companies — including NASA and SpaceX — to be in attendance.
"We know that the space industry in this country and around the world is growing at about three times the rate of growth [of] the rest of the growth in the world economy," Premier Jay Weatherill said.
"The eyes of the world will be on South Australia next week."
The congress is expected to attract 3,500 delegates from across the world, including some very high-profile guests.
"At the end of the week, we'll also hear from Elon Musk. He'll update [us] in relation to his Mars program," the Premier said.
SASIC will be run alongside Defence SA, and the State Government hopes it will soon be part of a national space agency.
The centre will provide grants of $1 million per year to develop local space businesses, and encourage research and development.

As part of this week's cabinet reshuffle, the Government created an expanded portfolio to include both Defence and Space Industries.
Mr Weatherill acknowledged the "important connection" between "our defence industries and space industries", but also outlined the benefits for the local economy.
"It's not just about rockets and astronauts," he said.
"All of those things can provide incredibly important things for terrestrial uses."
Mr Weatherill said data that would be useful to farmers was one such use, and was also talking up the state's history in rocketry and satellites.
"South Australia 50 years ago launched its first rocket from the Woomera rocket range," he said.
"We're one of the first three countries in the world to launch a satellite from its own territory."
South Australia and the ACT have joined forces to spearhead a campaign to develop a national space agency, signing a memorandum of understanding in August.
The NT and WA Governments have also expressed an interest to sign up.

Mr Weatherill has also acknowledged rumours the Prime Minister may be a surprise at next week's conference, and said that might be a good sign of an imminent announcement.
"We've written to the Prime Minister to create a national space agency … we're encouraging him to make an announcement to that end," Mr Weatherill said.
"There has been some speculation of the Prime Minister himself turning up. He'd be very welcome.
"You'd imagine he's not going to turn up to say very little."
Despite prominent calls from scientists, including Adelaide-born astronaut Dr Andrew Thomas, a federal review into a proposal to develop an Australian Space Agency isn't expected back for at least six months.
"The review should now focus on the shape and form of that agency," Mr Weatherill said.
The Premier said he hoped the creation of SASIC, and the MOU between SA and the ACT, would show the Commonwealth the state was serious about conquering the cosmos.
"We want to put a tangible investment in place so we can say, with some credibility, we want to be your partner in the establishment of a national space agency," he said.


Reserve Bank governor Philip Lowe is optimistic Australia's economy is on the path to a new post-mining growth phase, despite the challenges of weak wages growth, record-and-still-rising debt, and looming interest rate increases.
Speaking in Perth about "the next chapter" in Australia's economic development, Dr Lowe said the mining investment downturn was almost over, but Australia would need to look for new innovate industries to compete globally.
"If we are to take advantage of the opportunities that are offered by technology and growth in Asia, we need a flexible workforce with strong skills in the areas of problem solving, critical thinking and communication," he advised.
"Investment in human capital will be one of the keys to success."
The most positive sign is that investment in non-human capital — that is equipment, machinery, buildings and infrastructure — has now turned a corner, growing 10 per cent outside the mining sector over the past year.
"For a number of years, animal spirits had been missing, with many firms preferring to put off making decisions about capital spending," Dr Lowe observed.
"It appears that some of this reluctance to invest is now passing."
That fed through to strong employment growth, with the number of people with jobs growing by 2.5 per cent over the past year, easily exceeding population growth.
However, even though full-time employment is growing, it is not flowing through to pay increases.
"Over the past four years, the increase in average hourly earnings has been the slowest since at least the mid-1960s," Dr Lowe said.
"This is partly a consequence of the unwinding of the mining boom but there are structural factors at work as well.
"The slow growth in wages is putting a strain on household budgets and contributing to low rates of inflation."
The other big strain on household budgets and spending is a record level of household — mainly housing — debt, which is now more than 190 per cent of household incomes.
"Australians are coping well with the higher level of debt, but as debt levels have increased relative to our incomes so too have the medium-term risks," Dr Lowe said.
One of those risks is rising interest rates, as global central banks unwind their post-financial-crisis emergency stimulus programs.
"This period of monetary expansion is now drawing to a close," Dr Lowe said.
"Periods of rising interest rates globally have, historically, exposed over-borrowing somewhere in the global system.
"Investment strategies that looked sensible when interest rates were very low tend not to look so good when interest rates are higher."
While the global rise in interest rates has started in the US, Dr Lowe warned Australia would not be immune, although it may have a grace period.
"An increase in global interest rates would, over time, be expected to flow through to us, just as the lower interest rates have," he said.
"Our flexible exchange rate though gives us considerable independence regarding the timing as to when this might happen."
The other big constraint on the Reserve Bank raising rates too far, too fast is the level of household debt itself.
"Having increased their borrowing, households are less inclined to let consumption growth run ahead of growth in incomes for too long," Dr Lowe observed.
"Higher levels of debt also mean that household spending could be quite sensitive to increases in interest rates, something the Reserve Bank will be paying close attention to."
Dr Lowe concluded by saying the Reserve Bank had not attempted to "overly fine tune" the economy in recent years through interest rate moves, implying it would wait for stronger signs of economic improvement before it started lifting interest rates.


The consultation process for deciding which route the Melbourne-to-Brisbane inland railway would take in southern Queensland was "a complete farce", according to local farmers.

Federal Infrastructure Minister Darren Chester today announced the railway's path would go across floodplains north of the New South Wales border.
The chosen route is similar to the alignment known as the "base case" proposed by the Australian Rail and Track Corporation (ARTC) in 2010.
There had been four routes under consideration. Earlier this year, Mr Chester established the Project Reference Group (PRG) to address landholder concerns about the options and to allow local input.
One of the key objectives of the group, as outlined by the Federal Government, was to achieve "transparency" in decision making.
But local floodplain farmer Brett Kelly said the selection process lacked transparency.
"The PRG process was a complete farce in that we did not get any input, we could not question any of the engineering," he said.

The grain grower said group members didn't get to see the PRG's final report before the decision was made, and has labelled it a public relations exercise.
"At the end of the consultation process and the PRG process, the chairman wrote a report to Minister Chester," Mr Kelly said.
"We were not allowed to see a copy of that, which removes the transparency that we were promised with the process."
Mr Chester released the report last night to members of the PRG, at the same time as he notified them of the decision on the route.
"People are going to be disappointed by the decision if it impacts them directly, but the process has been absolutely above board," the Minister said. "I stand by the process."
Mr Kelly and another floodplain farmer, Jason Mundt, said they had been told by ARTC the line would be built on a two-metre embankment with culverts.

The farmers are concerned drains under the tracks could get blocked with debris, creating a damming effect that could be "catastrophic" and "put lives at risk".
Mr Kelly also said there was little information on what engineering had been done to ensure flood risks would be mitigated.
"We did not get any input, we could not question any of the engineering," he said.
"We couldn't ask them [the engineers] to elaborate why all of a sudden this base case line was cheaper, when, according to the [2015] SMEC [Snowy Mountain Electricity Corporation] report, it was actually dearer than other routes."
Speaking in Queensland today, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull ensured landowners would not be put in danger.
"It obviously goes across a floodplain but the engineering measures and design will take all that into account so that it does not adversely affect either property owners or environment interests by changing the way water flows," Mr Turnbull said.
Farmers are also concerned vested interests may have attempted to influence the decision-making process on the route.
"I believe our mayor could profit in the tens of millions of dollars from the route going on this base case line," Mr Kelly said.
"He obviously has a large quarry that he can profit out of by supplying the ballast that will go underneath this railway line.
"Out of all the routes, the most ballast that would be needed would be underneath this particular route."
Toowoomba Regional Council Mayor Paul Antonio has championed inland rail for many years and has spoken publicly in support of the base case.
He owns a gravel quarry near Millmerran on the route chosen by the Federal Government.
In an interview with the ABC, Councillor Antonio conceded he stood to benefit from inland rail.
"Regardless of where the rail line goes over the next 100 years, that basalt on my hill will be used. It will benefit either myself or whoever owns that property," he said.
The ABC can reveal the Mayor personally paid $4,900 to have another option investigated — it altered the base case route near Millmerran and took the line to the very edge of his quarry.
Cr Antonio said he paid for the map to find an alternative that did not go through prime agricultural land in Millmerran, to help affected farmers.

After initially telling the ABC he gave the map only to one Millmerran farmer, he later conceded he provided the map to former industry minister Ian MacFarlane, who is now the chief executive of the Queensland Resources Council.
"Ian's a friend of mine and he has some influence in terms of protection of good agricultural land," the Mayor said.
He added he did not know what Mr Macfarlane did with the map.
However, the ABC has obtained a text message sent by Cr Antonio on September 11 to Millmerran farmer Russell Stevens that contradicts this.
"Macfarlane said he had been talking to the powers that be and they liked the option. Enormous advantage," the text said.
Mr Macfarlane did not respond to the ABC's questions about the map, however he said he was not lobbying for Cr Antonio.
Cr Antonio's proposed diversion is not part of the route announced by Mr Chester today.
But Mr Stevens, whose farm may be dissected by the route, said it was concerning the mayor appeared to have tried to influence the outcome.
"I think it's just disgraceful actually," he said.
"If they want to come through here they will drag me off here in handcuffs and a paddy wagon. I am not going."
Mr Chester today disagreed with any suggestion there had been political manipulation in the selection process.



Artist Yoko Ono has forced a Polish beverage company to rename its new drink, called John Lemon, after threatening legal action.
The widow of Beatles great John Lennon alleged the soft drink infringed on the trademark of her late husband and his rights.
The company has now agreed to change the drink's name to On Lemon, reaching a settlement so that they could continue their business.
Karol Chamera, the founder of Mr Lemonade Alternative Drinks, which distributed the John Lemon beverage in the UK, told the East London Advertiser newspaper that they could not afford to keep up the battle.
"All of us involved with this product are start-ups and we couldn't take on someone who is worth many, many millions," she said.
Lawyers acting for Ono wrote to distributors warning the company faced costs of up to 5,000 euros ($7,401) a day and 500 euros ($739) for every bottle sold if they infringed the trademark.

Lawyers acting for the beverage firm denied it had infringed the late star's rights.
But Ono's lawyers pointed to a Facebook post from John Lemon Ireland, which featured an image of the iconic singer.
Other marketing materials included the brand's logo next to the words "let it be" and a pair of round glasses, both closely associated with Lennon.
John Lemon's lawyers pointed out that their EU trademark had been registered in 2014, two years earlier than the John Lennon trademark, which was registered in 2016.
ABC/


Global stock markets were on edge as they awaited the outcome of the Federal Reserve's two-day meeting.

US and European equities finished with mixed performances by the end of their trading days.
The main safe-haven asset, gold, has fallen sharply (-0.8pc), reversing earlier gains, following the Fed's policy announcement.
The Fed decided to keep American interest rates on hold at 1-1.25 per cent, as widely predicted.
But the American central bank was more "hawkish" than expected, as it signalled its expectations of another rate hike by the end of the year — despite recent weak inflation figures.

"What we need to figure out is whether the factors that have lowered inflation are likely to prove persistent," Fed chair Janet Yellen said at a press conference after the meeting.
Ms Yellen said that, if they do, "it would require an alteration of monetary policy".
A majority of the bank's officials (11 out of 16) see the "appropriate" level for the federal funds rate to be between 1.25 per cent and 1.5 per cent by the end of the year, the Fed's post-meeting economic projections revealed. That is 0.25 percentage points above the current level.
"The market reaction to the Fed has been to lift the probability of a December rate hike to around two-thirds from the 50/50 proposition prices yesterday," said Deutsche Bank strategist Ken Crompton.

As expected, the Fed also said it will gradually begin reversing its bond buying (or quantitative easing) from October.
Since the global financial crisis, the bank has attempted to stimulate US economic growth with a massive cash injection.
This has resulted in it now holding about $US4.2 trillion worth of government bonds and mortgage-backed securities on its balance sheet.
The Fed's plan is to get rid of a modest $US10 billion worth of those assets each month to start with, ramping up to $US50 billion in a year's time.

Capital Economics' US economist Andrew Hunter is sceptical about how effective the Fed's "quantitative tightening" plan will be.
"In truth, however, the move has been so well telegraphed and, at just $US10 billion per month initially, the pace of run-down will be so gradual that it is unlikely to have a major impact on the economy or financial markets," he said.
"Indeed, based on the Fed's current plans, the balance sheet would still be as large as $US3 trillion in four years' time."
Following the Fed's announcement, the Dow Jones and S&P 500 indexes rose slightly to hit fresh records.
However, the Nasdaq slipped by 0.1 per cent as it was dragged down by the technology sector (-0.5 per cent), one of the day's underperformers.
Most US stock sectors ended the day either negative or flat — with the exception of the energy sector (+0.7 per cent). Energy stocks received a boost from an overnight surge in crude prices (+2 per cent).
It looks to be a quiet day, with no major local economic data out today.
ASX futures have risen by 0.1 per cent, pointing towards a slightly higher open for the local bourse.
The Australian dollar surged to 80.87c overnight, but that was short-lived. The local currency has now backtracked to 80.25 US cents.


The Commonwealth Bank has sold its troubled insurance business CommInsure Life to a Hong Kong-listed group for $3.8 billion.

The deal with AIA Group also covers the sale of the CBA's New Zealand life insurance arm Sovereign.
The sale of CommInsure Life follows a scandal where the insurer was accused of using outdated medical definitions to delay or deny payments to policyholders, and pressuring medical assessors to reject claims.
As part of the CommInsure and Sovereign sale, the CBA also announced its head of wealth management Annabel Spring will leave the company in December.
Ms Spring had oversight for the CommInsure business and was under constant criticism as CBA managed the scandal after an investigation by the ABC's Four Corners and Fairfax Media.
The sale of CommInsure had been flagged in CBA's full-year results last month although, at the time, the company said the future sale of the insurer was uncertain.
The purchase by AIA includes a 20-year partnership agreement to continue providing insurance products to customers in Australia and New Zealand.

In a statement released to the stock exchange, the CBA confirmed that CommInsure and Sovereign customers will retain current benefits in existing policies.
AIA is the largest publicly listed insurance group in Asia and already has established life insurance businesses in Australia and New Zealand.
Under the sale, the CBA will continue to earn income from its life insurance products already in place.
CBA will also retain the CommInsure brand and continue to sell general insurance under it.
At the same time as announcing the sale of its life insurance business, CBA also announced a strategic review of its funds management business, Colonial First State Global Asset Management.
The sale of CommInsure Life and Sovereign will end up in a $300 million loss for CBA, but also release about $3 billion of capital for the bank.
The banking regulator APRA earlier this year released increased capital requirements to take effect at the start of 2020, with analysts estimating that CBA would have at least a $4 billion shortfall under the new rules if it did not raise more funds.
APRA has also hinted that it will require the major banks to hold more capital — which is the reserves of funds they can reliably draw on to cover potential losses — in relation to residential mortgages.

Citi bank analyst Craig Williams said the CommInsure sell-off now means Commonwealth Bank can meet APRA's 2020 requirements, but it may need to raise more money if it cops a large fine over money laundering law breaches.
"A large fine accrued in settling the AUSTRAC legal action may take CBA below this minimum threshold again, albeit a sale or IPO of the Global Asset Management business (now subject to strategic review) is likely to release sufficient capital to eliminate any shortfall," he wrote in a note.
It is not yet clear how much CBA's review of Colonial is related to raising additional capital through a sale or initial public offering (IPO) — separate share market listing — of the wealth management business.
It is possible that CBA could ultimately decide not to proceed, or to give its existing shareholders the equity in a standalone firm.
With $219 billion of funds under management, Colonial is one of Australia's largest asset managers.
To give a very rough sense of its potential standalone value on the share market, listed fund manager Platinum Investment Management is currently valued at $3.6 billion, and Colonial is almost ten times bigger in terms of assets under management.
However, Platinum makes a lot more profit on each of those dollars under management — it reported a $186 million net profit for the 2017 financial year.
Based on the Colonial First State Global Asset Management division's profits of $229 million in CBA's last annual report, it seems a market valuation between $3.5-4.5 billion may be closer to the mark, at 15-20 times its earnings.
Commonwealth Bank chief executive Ian Narev was putting a positive spin on offloading its insurance business given the scandals that damaged the reputation of CommInsure.
"Providing our customers with access to high quality products and services for all their financial needs is core to our vision of securing and enhancing financial wellbeing," Mr Narev said in a statement.
"We have said for some time that while distributing life insurance is a fundamental part of that strategy, we were open to different models for doing so."
The fallout from CommInsure comes as CBA deals with the latest scandal involving almost 54,000 alleged breaches of anti-money laundering regulations.
As a result, CBA chairman Catherine Livingstone ordered that the bank's executive team including Ian Narev have their short term bonuses cut to zero.

Succession planning for Ian Narev's replacement has been expedited and Mr Narev will leave the CBA by 30 June 2018.
Commenting on Annabel Spring's confirmed departure, Mr Narev said Ms Spring had led the CBA's insurance arm during "challenging and changing times" for the insurance industry.
"She has shown determined leadership in addressing complex and long-standing issues in the businesses while growing and transforming the businesses culturally, technologically and strategically," Mr Narev said.
The Commonwealth Bank's share price has suffered as a result of the most recent scandal involving money laundering allegations closing yesterday at $76.29 after reaching more than $93 in March 2015.
CBA is facing an investigation into its culture and governance by a panel of independent experts assembled by the bank regulator APRA.
However, APRA has faced criticism from banking experts and parliamentarians over the inclusion of its former chairman John Laker on the inquiry panel.


Want a job in the future? Prepare yourself for Snapchat applications, computer game-style cognitive assessments, and video applications before you even get the chance to talk to a human.
Employers are increasingly using technology to find more efficient ways to select and screen out candidates but workplace advocates have warned short video applications could open the door to discrimination and unfair hiring practices.
Major companies that have experimented with using technological advances in the hiring process have said that so far it has proven worthwhile.
McDonalds has a filter in the popular app Snapchat, which allows applicants to superimpose the corporate behemoth's uniform on themselves, and then record a 10-second video applying for the job.

McDonalds WA market manager Bradley McMullen said the firm still went through the normal interview process, but the Snapchat videos were a way for candidates to show a bit of their personality.
"We get the odd application that doesn't work for us, but the overwhelming majority have actually been excellent applications and they proceed to an interview which they may or may not get through, but it's just the first step in our application process," he said.
Meanwhile automated, "volume-based" online application processes are being adopted by major firms such as NAB, which it said saved it 700 hours per month in reading traditional resumes and conducting job interviews.
Global accounting firm KPMG have just started using a "robot recruiter" — a completely automated system — for initial screenings where applicants complete tests structured as anything from computer shooter-style games to balloons that pop up with math questions on screen.

The games test cognitive ability, speed, reaction time, and decision-making skills.
"Really it's drilling down into the next level of 'let's not just check if economics or accounting students are able to do the math, it's more about do they have the aptitude and skills to be able to perform the task," KPMG head of talent and acquisition Phil Rutherford said.
"The expectation is they are going to be comfortable applying through those means."
Mr Rutherford said staff viewing the videos were trained to remove unconscious bias, while hearing or speech-impaired candidates were able to access different application processes.
KPMG also offer "personality tests" candidates can take online to see what roles they may be best suited to.
Recruitment agent and trainer Suzanne Bailey said the way employers searched for talent was changing, and job hunters needed to know what they were up against.

She said automated and video recruitment saved employers money and time.
"We get to see you, we get to see the sincerity in your face, we get to see whether or not you're a happy smiling person, we get to see how well you're going to present our brand in our uniform," she said.
"We're going to see that you can actually communicate."
But she acknowledged it meant the process could be open to discrimination by employers.
"I believe there is a lot of discrimination that could happen because 'your brand' doesn't suit the brand of what we're looking for," Ms Bailey said.
"It could be your age, you could have just put on too much makeup, your hair could be really scruffy, and we don't need that."

Unions WA secretary Meredith Hammat said young people should be aware of the potential pitfalls.
"Of course young people are always really keen to win their first job, I'm sure many of them engage in the employer's recruitment processes without really questioning what it means," she said.
"I think the risk is employers will make discriminatory judgments with this kind of recruitment process.
"When all they're doing is having a quick look at someone, making some discriminatory judgements about whether they have the right look to fit in, without properly considering the sort of skills that person might bring to the job."
Shelby, 17, got her latest job by submitting a short video application.
She said it was helpful to be able to have a few goes at recording her interview, to prepare for the real thing.
"I do find it a bit easier, I'm quite shy in that respect, so it is kind of good to put yourself out there how you want to be seen at first," she said.
"I think it's just different and it's just something people may not be used to.
"If you're not technologically advanced it could be very complicated … if you're not familiar with computer software."


Australia has the capacity to store up to 1,000 times more renewable energy than it could ever conceivably need, according to an analysis by researchers at the Australian National University (ANU).

ANU engineering professor Andrew Blakers has conducted a study looking into pumped hydro sites and has concluded that there are at least 22,000 suitable locations nationwide.
Professor Blakers said if storage was built at just a tiny fraction of those places, Australia could transition to 100 per cent renewable power within two decades.
"No matter where you are in Australia, you will find a good pumped hydro site not very far away from where you, or your wind or your solar farm is located," he said.
"We only need to build about one or two dozen to support a 100 per cent-renewable electricity grid."
Pumped hydro works by pumping water uphill between two connected reservoirs when power is plentiful, and dispatching power to the grid when demand is high or when wind and solar do not work.
ANU engineering research fellow Matthew Stocks said a typical pumped hydro facility could deliver maximum power for between five hours and one full day.
The power could be quickly dispatched to the grid, when needed.
"It can go from zero to full power in about one minute," Dr Stocks said.


The technology behind pumped hydro is not new — a facility was opened in the 1970s at the Tumut 3 Power Station at Talbingo in New South Wales.
Pumped hydro is also widespread in Europe, especially in the alpine parts of Italy, Germany and France, and in Scandinavian countries like Norway. It is also widely used in Japan and the United States.
Professor Blakers said as investment in renewable sources of energy like wind and solar increases in Australia, the need for pumped hydro storage would grow.
"We have so little solar and wind in the system at the moment that we don't need the storage," he said.
"Maybe now South Australia, at 50 per cent wind and solar PV, is just getting to the stage where it does need either strong interconnection or a pumped hydro or both.
"But the other states will catch up and will be at the 50 per cent level by the early 2020s I think, so they also need to start planning with pumped hydro now."
For the report, Professor Blakers, Dr Stocks and their colleagues looked closely at tens of thousands of sites Australia-wide.
They found the greatest density of pumped hydro storage sites was in New South Wales, where they estimated there was potential to build 29,000 gigawatt hours' worth of storage capacity across 8,600 sites.
In Victoria they estimated there were 4,400 potentially suitable sites capable of storing 11,000 gigawatt hours' capacity, while Tasmania could theoretically support 2,050 sites, adding 6,000 gigawatt hours' of storage.

"The Great Dividing Range is the best place," Professor Blakers said.
"All the way from North Queensland down to near Melbourne has thousands and thousands of sites."
Professor Blakers said if pumped hydro storage facilities were built at just a handful of sites spread out nationwide, Australia could run on renewables alone.
"Pumped hydro, high-voltage DC interconnectors between the states, solar photovoltaics, wind, batteries and demand management can do the whole job," he said.
"Not just the whole job for electricity, but the whole job for energy — electrify land transport, electrify heating and cooling and you could make 75 per cent cuts in Australia's greenhouse gas emissions.
"And I think this is going to happen over the next 15 or 20 years."
The ANU researchers' work was funded by a $500,000 grant made by the Federal Government's Australian Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA).

ARENA is itself already funding feasibility studies into pumped hydro storage in Tasmania, and in the Upper Spencer Gulf in South Australia and Kidston in north Queensland.
ARENA's CEO Ivor Frischknecht said while additional research was now needed into the 22,000 sites identified by the study, the message was clear — Australia could have 100 per cent renewable power.
"There's no question that wind and solar investment are going to keep going," he said.
"The challenge is to ensure that we end up with a reliable system that is also affordable, and that's where this study comes in.
"This study shows that it would be relatively affordable to run the entire system on wind, solar and pumped hydro."
In a statement to AM, Environment and Energy Minister Josh Frydenberg welcomed the study's findings.
He said the Government was already delivering a "major expansion" of the Snowy Hydro scheme and cited the on-going feasibility studies in Tasmania, South Australia and Queensland.
The Minister also indicated that the Government was working on a "new priority funding round for large scale storage and other flexible capacity projects including pumped hydro".


The Federal Government is being urged to ban a highly speculative investment scheme that has been hijacked by international fraudsters to steal millions of dollars from Australians.

So-called "binary options trading" allows investors to speculate on whether a stock or commodity price will go up or down.
A form of fixed-odds betting, such trading sees investors cash in — or lose everything.
Many established traders consider the investments too risky but naive amateurs are being aggressively sold the products by scammers promising huge returns.

Fraudsters in countries with few financial regulations are using gambling industry tactics and cold calls to pressure Australians into sending them money, which they falsely claim to invest on their behalf.
Some Australians have lost more than $1 million to these scams, alleging the money was never invested or dividends were not returned and they were persuaded to continue sending funds despite huge losses.
Binary options trading is legal in Australia, but the scale of fraud overseas has prompted Israel and Belgium to introduce bans.
Canada is pursuing an nationwide ban and the UK and European regulators are considering similar measures.

These scams are relatively new to Australia and the consumer watchdog is warning $7.5 million has already been lost, with ACCC deputy Delia Rickard saying that's just "the tip of the iceberg".
"If you've lost a significant amount of money, the sad news is you're very unlikely to get it back," she said.
The predatory tactics are worrying the Australian Security and Investment Commission (ASIC), which has forced Google and Facebook to stop promoting smart-phone apps run by unregistered traders.
Legitimate traders registered with ASIC are also concerned, with one chief executive telling the ABC he would support a "a complete prohibition" of simple binary options trading.
"We support any steps ASIC decides to make in addressing this unsatisfactory situation," he said.

Patrick Venaille, 62, lost $600,000 to an overseas scammer and is urging others to steer clear of binary options.
"I've got no more house, I live in a two-bedroom unit, and I still owe money to my brother-in-law," he told the ABC.

"I think I lost credibility a little bit with my kids, because I always preached them to not put their money in the same basket, and here I am doing exactly what I told them not to do."
The electrical engineer was made redundant in 2013 and turned to binary options. He spoke almost daily with a broker over Skype, who encouraged his betting.
"Over one day, we made $200,000 so I thought 'wow, this is incredible. Sounds like the guy knows what he's doing'," Mr Venaille said.
"I put more money into it, and slowly he asked me for more money still, and we slowly build up the account whereby I think we deposited a total of nearly half a million dollars."
The trader kept pressuring him for money and when he tried to pull out, asking for his money back, he was denied.
Adelaide man Peter Green has not told his family and friends about being strong-armed into the investment scam, which left him with a $50,000 debt.

The 63-year-old was rung every day by a broker who eventually convinced him to bet against the gold price, which is something he thought would be safe.
"My family doesn't know, apart from my mother and some close friends, so it is rather embarrassing and yeah, it hurt," he said.
"It means staying living with my mother for a bit longer now, that's for sure. We're having a tough year business-wise, so it's been a pretty hard year actually."
Mr Green said his money was left sitting into an account in Dubai but was never invested by the broker, it was simply stolen.
"He robbed me all my savings I was trying to put aside to build a house, so it's been pretty hard," he said.


The Melbourne-to-Brisbane inland rail line will be built across the Condamine floodplain in Queensland, despite farmers' warnings that it could put lives at risk.
Federal Infrastructure Minister Darren Chester has written to residents informing them of his decision, which he is due to officially announce in Toowoomba later this morning.
An announcement had initially been expected earlier this year, but landholder concerns prompted a review of the four proposed routes.
Mr Chester said the relative cost and transit time were factors in making the decision, but he acknowledged "this decision will be disappointing for some" and "has not been taken lightly".

The chosen route — shown in the map above as the purple line — is similar to the alignment known as the "base case" proposed by the Australian Rail and Track Corporation (ARTC) in 2010, but deviates east after the Condamine floodplain to go via Pittsworth, Brookstead and the Wellcamp-Charlton Industrial Precinct
Toowoomba's Wagner family built and owns the international Wellcamp Airport and had promised to invest millions of dollars in creating a road-rail-air transport hub geared towards food and agricultural produce if the rail corridor was shifted closer.
"While cost is not the overriding factor in decision-making for the preferred alignment, the Wellcamp-Charlton option has the lowest incremental cost compared with Base Case," Mr Chester said.
"It also offers the shortest transit time."


But floodplain grain-growers Brett Kelly and Jason Mundt have told the ABC the decision could be "catastrophic" for farmers.
They said flooding in 2010 inundated their farms, devastated crops, and dislodged a section of the existing railway.
As a result the line between Millmerran and Brookstead remains closed, the farmers added.
"It makes no sense to build the line across an extensive floodplain when there are better options upstream where there is less water," Mr Kelly said.
Mr Kelly and Mr Mundt said they had been told by ARTC the inland rail would be built on an embankment two metres higher than the existing line.
"If you consider building another line two metres higher, you're virtually building a dam wall, but without the same reinforcement," Mr Kelly said.
"It could definitely put lives at risk."

Mr Mundt said the higher embankment could see water back up for tens of kilometres in a big flood.
"You'll have people swimming out of their bedrooms, really," he said.
"If you thought Grantham was bad, you ain't seen nothing until something like that," he added, referring to the deadly 2011 flash flood in the Lockyer Valley town that killed 12 people.
Landholders at Millmerran, whose farms are now likely to be dissected, are also furious, saying the chosen rail corridor will cut through prime agricultural land.
"The final design will be subject to an extensive planning and approvals process, which will work through questions about technical and environmental aspects," Mr Chester said.
"I have asked the ARTC to work directly with affected landholders to refine the design of the railway."


Tabcorp's $11 billion bid for rival gambling outfit Tatts has hit an unforeseen courtroom hurdle put in place by the takeovers handicapper, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.

Tabcorp had expected to be well into the home straight with the takeover before the start of Spring Carnival, but now finds itself back it the starting gate, chaffing at the bit, as the ACCC recorded a surprise victory in the Federal Court.
Tabcorp planned to sidestep the ACCC — which had publicly questioned the benefits of the merger — by seeking and winning approval from the Australian Competition Tribunal.
That move riled the ACCC's competitive instincts and it hauled Tabcorp into court seeking to have the ACT approval set aside.
The Federal Court backed Tabcorp's argument to a degree and called for more submissions to be made by all parties before another hearing on Thursday September 28.
James Packer's relatively new entrant in the field, CrownBet, had also jumped aboard the ACCC appeal, arguing the deal was bad for punters and the public interest.
"The ACCC is pleased that the Full Federal Court has set aside the decision, however the reasons for the decision are not yet public," ACCC Chairman Rod Sims said.
The ACCC's appeal centred on what it argued was the faulty reasoning of the ACT such as the merger would not cause a substantial lessening of competition.
"The Tribunal [also] made an error when it failed to compare the likely future state of competition both with and without the proposed acquisition in order to assess competitive detriment," Mr Sims said.
"Finally, the ACCC argued that the Tribunal had made an error in failing to assign less weight to benefits which would be retained by Tabcorp, its shareholders and the racing industry, and not shared with consumers more broadly."
The initial decision from the ACT placed only one condition on the sale —  requiring Tabcorp to sell its pokies monitoring Odyssey business in Queensland.
If the merger is ultimately waived through, the new enterprise will control about 90 per cent of Australia's totaliser betting and will generate revenues in excess of $5 billion.
Tabcorp forecast the deal would release about $130 million a year in synergies by eliminating overlapping IT platforms, merging head offices and cutting jobs.


The ANZ has become the second big bank in a week to forecast the Reserve Bank will turn hawkish and raise rates twice next year.

The move follows the NAB change in call on the RBA last week of a two rate hikes next year, from an earlier call of no change.
The ANZ's change of view was driven by a more positive view on the domestic economy with both growth and inflation picking up, while it forecast the unemployment rate would fall to 5.3 per cent by the end of the year.
"In sum our outlook for 2018 is a touch more positive than before, reflecting a stronger outlook for non-mining business investment, the strength in public sector spending [not only in the infrastructure space] and a shallower dip in residential construction than previously expected," ANZ's head of Australian economics David Plank wrote in a note to clients.
The ANZ argues the real cash rate — the rate adjusted for inflation — was already negative and if economic growth accelerates and inflation picks up as expected, it will become even more negative and unnecessarily stimulatory.
"[The] RBA has progressively shifted to a hawkish outlook," Mr Plank said.
"Downside risks to growth and inflation have eased, suggesting less need for a negative cash rate."
It is a similar view over at the NAB where GDP expectations have been revised up, unemployment revised down and consequently inflation moves up as well.
NAB's head of global research Peter Jolly noted the most confident thing he could say about the bank's change in forecast was it would not be the last.
"The big deal here is that having been on a declining trend since 2011, for the first time, NAB is now saying we have seen a turning point for Australia's interest rate cycle," Mr Jolly said
The other big banks are staying put with their forecasts, with CBA pencilling one rise in the fourth quarter next year while Westpac says the RBA is hold right through 2018.
Westpac chief economist Bill Evans says he does not share the optimism of either the other banks or the RBA about the economy.
"I think the RBA believes it will be raising rates next year," Mr Evans said.
"They are very optimistic on growth, they believe they will see strong income growth."
Mr Evans is convinced the RBA is wrong.
"Income growth is around 1.5 per cent, spending is around 2.5 per cent and that is at the expense of [household] savings.

"We are looking at a substantial drag from the construction sector which is a very job intensive activity."
Mr Evans said it looks like the labour market may be over-shooting and if softness continues in the services sector and retail, employment growth would roll over, causing a big problem for the RBA.
ANZ's David Plank concedes household consumption will remain relatively subdued, even if income growth picks up.
The bigger risk to his two-hike theory would be the on-going appreciation of the Australian dollar.
"A strong rally in the Australian dollar toward 90 cents, for instance, could be enough to defer a rate hike in 2018.
"Likewise, evidence that core inflation or wages are slowing again would rule out a rate hike in 2018."
The ANZ also rules a third hike next year due to the heavy indebtedness of Australian households, noting two rises would be enough to take the average mortgage repayment back to the previous peak of loan serviceability.
For its part, the market is already ahead of the ANZ and NAB's moves, with futures trading bringing forward its expectation dramatically in just the past couple of weeks.
Even last week, futures trading had only one hike priced in during the next 18 months, now it has two and the trajectory is getting steeper.



Steel baron Sanjeev Gupta and climate change expert Ross Garnaut sound like strange bedfellows.

But they're teaming up in an effort to disprove conventional wisdom that you can't run a steel mill with renewable energy.
In the process, they're also aiming to deliver much cheaper electricity, to improve the competitiveness of Australian steel-making and possibly bring down household power bills as well.
Mr Gupta is a British billionaire who made his name buying failed steel-making businesses and making them profitable.
Earlier this year the so called "Man of Steel" swooped in to save the former Arrium steel works in Whyalla, South Australia, from foreclosure and its thousands of workers from dole queues.

He's now one of the biggest energy users in Australia, with steel mills in Sydney, Melbourne and Newcastle.
In an effort to bring down his power costs, Mr Gupta has bought a 50.1 per cent stake in Zen Energy, the company set up by former Rudd Government climate advisor, Professor Ross Garnaut.
Together, they're planning to set up an array of renewable energy, that will include solar, pumped hydro and "a bit" of battery to feed the company's energy hungry steel-mills and provide any excess power into the grid.
They claim it'll not only deliver clean power that's reliable, but also at a much lower cost.
"We're very confident we can deliver on that'" Professor Garnaut told 7.30.
"We're happy for the sceptics to watch what we do, and they'll learn what's possible."
Since their plan will also reduce demand on the grid, they claim it will also drive down the cost of power for everyone.
"It's going to bring down cost of energy, dispatchable baseload cost of energy, in Australia dramatically," Mr Gupta said.
Not everyone agrees it can be done. On Tuesday former prime minister Tony Abbott told 2GB such a plan simply wasn't viable.
"You can't run a steel plant on renewables, you can't run an aluminium smelter on renewables and if we want to keep all of these heavy industries we have got to have reliable baseload power, and the only way you can do that is with coal, or with a gas." Mr Abbott said.

"A battery will not run a steel mill, a battery will not run an aluminium smelter."
The steel billionaire agrees with one part of Mr Abbott's statement.
"When everybody says you can't run a plant on battery, of course it's right, it's not meant to," Mr Gupta told 7.30.
"All it's meant to do is stabilise the grid."
As well as renewables, the plan will include some coal and gas.
"While every electron that's used won't be from renewable energy, we expect to be putting more renewable energy into the grid than we're taking other energy out of it," Professor Garnaut said.
The new business partners are now calling on the Government to agree on a market mechanism, like a Clean Energy Target, to provide industry with certainty beyond 2020.

"The rational way forward is to put in place stable incentives that allow Australia to meet its international commitments," Professor Garnaut said.
"Let business get on with the job of finding the lowest cost ways of meeting our power needs within that framework."
Mr Gupta agrees.
"You have a country which is blessed with all the natural resources to allow you to be perhaps the lowest cost energy producer in the world," he said.
"And yet you are the highest cost producer of energy in the world.
"So to put it bluntly, it's broken and it has to be fixed."


There is no evidence the release of stormwater from Abbot Point Coal Terminal caused widespread contamination of the nearby Caley Valley Wetlands, Queensland's Environment Department has said.
Adani's coal terminal was granted a temporary licence to help it manage water on the site during Tropical Cyclone Debbie in March.
The company was fined by the department after advising it had released water with sediment levels eight times higher than was permitted.
Satellite imagery appeared to show contamination to the wetlands, located near Mackay, prompting the Environment Department to commission an investigation.
It found a coal concentration of 10 per cent in sediment where water was discharged from the facility, reducing to "minor" concentrations of 1 to 2 per cent further away from that point.
The report found no evidence of widespread contamination and little visual evidence of fine coal particles across the wetlands.

"The appearance of water bodies in remotely sensed imagery can be affected by several factors, including the depth and clarity of the water, the angle of the sun and the sensor when the image is captured," the department said in a statement.
The department said it would conduct additional monitoring and had issued a notice to the Abbot Point terminal to prepare an environmental evaluation.
Queensland Conservation Council's Tim Seelig said it was far too early to say there was no evidence of contamination given the substances in question.
"We do know that sediment in sections of the wetlands contains 10 per cent coal pollutant," he said.
"That is vastly more than we would expect to occur naturally …  Adani should be held responsible and fined."



House prices in Australia's two biggest capital cities are between 25-30 per cent overvalued, according to a leading economist, but he only expects a 10 per cent fall.

To come to that conclusion, Paul Dales from Capital Economics has done the numbers on what houses should be worth.
Many analysts look at house price to income ratios to determine whether real estate is overvalued.
On a simple version of that measure, Mr Dales said Australian house prices would need to fall by an average of 38 per cent to get back to fair value — worse than the 30 per cent US property price plunge during the global financial crisis.
However, he noted that this measure does not take into account the long-term lower level of interest rates and therefore the bigger amount people can comfortably borrow and the lower rental returns investors demand.
When you calculate a "normal" house price to earnings (HPE) ratio factoring in these changes, you get 4.6 as the result.
But it is not all good news.
The current HPE ratio nationally is 5.8, which means property prices would need to fall an average 20 per cent to get back to long-run norms.
The news is far worse in Sydney and Melbourne, where the HPE ratios are about 7 and 6.5 respectively — that means a fall of almost 30 per cent is required in Sydney, and more than 25 per cent in Melbourne, to return to historical fair value levels.
Not that this is what Mr Dales is expecting.
"Our view is that prices in Sydney and Melbourne will broadly stagnate or fall modestly over the next two years and that prices won't fall significantly until the RBA starts to raise interest rates, which might not happen until late in 2019," he wrote in his note.
"Thereafter, prices in both capital cities may fall by around 10 per cent."
Why markets that are between 25-30 per cent overvalued will only fall 10 per cent is not explained in this note, but Mr Dales promises more analysis soon.

"What actually happens to prices in those cities will also come down to future changes in lending standards, changes in demand at home and from overseas, and the extent to which lending standards have been compromised over the past decade," he observed.
"These are topics that we will tackle in more detail in the near future."
When it comes to lending standards, a recent survey by investment bank UBS provided evidence that things have not improved over the past few years, despite a bank regulator crackdown on risky lending practices.
The UBS study found that up to a third of new mortgages were based on false or inaccurate information — that equates to around $500 billion in home lending.
The good news for those outside Sydney and Melbourne is that the worst problems appear to be confined to Australia's two biggest cities.

"Our analysis suggests that while housing is overvalued in almost every city, it's not quite as overvalued as some analysts have suggested and the risks are concentrated in Sydney and Melbourne," Mr Dales observed.
Mr Dales said house prices might need to drop 5-10 per cent in Hobart and Brisbane, and around 5 per cent in Canberra and Adelaide, to get back to more normal levels.
However, Perth's pain over recent years has seen its house prices fall back to fair value, according to Mr Dales, while Darwin is now almost 5 per cent undervalued.


The Australian and Indonesian trade ministers have announced they have set a November deadline to complete a bilateral trade deal.
Trade Minister Steve Ciobo is in Jakarta for one of the final rounds of talks with his Indonesian counterpart, Enggartiaso Lukita.
Mr Ciobo said once the deal was done, Indonesia and Australia would both be in a stronger position in what he described as a "win-win" partnership.
A previous deal, announced during the Indonesian President's visit to Australia in February — for Australia to dump tariffs on pesticides and herbicides — took force from Wednesday in exchange for Indonesia reducing tariffs on imported raw sugar in about a fortnight.
The bilateral trade deal is known as the Indonesia-Australia Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (IA-CEPA).

Mr Ciobo said he would not provide a sector-by-sector analysis of negotiations, and limited details have been made public.
"Clearly though, negotiation by virtue of the definition of the word means that there is compromise on both sides," Mr Ciobo said during a joint press conference in Jakarta.
The Trade Minister used the example of tariffs on Australian skim milk powder as an example of how a reduction in protectionism could assist both nations.
"The consequence would be that skim milk powder would potentially be cheaper here in Indonesia," the Minister said.
"And the reason that is important is because Indonesia uses skim milk powder to make sweetened condensed milk which Indonesia then exports."


Discharged mental health patients from the Royal Hobart Hospital who have been sent to stay at backpacker hostels have assaulted guests and verbally abused staff, according to a hostel manager.
The Tasmanian Health Service (THS) has confirmed it regularly pays for discharged patients who are homeless to stay at hotels and other accommodation facilities.
The Government has denied claims from Labor that staff are being pressured to discharge unwell patients.
Jessica Johnson, manager of The Nook backpacker hostel in Hobart, said she received regular bookings from the hospital for discharged patients who had nowhere else to go.
"A lot of the time we have had people that have been clearly very unstable," she said.
Ms Johnson said last year a discharged mental health patient staying at the hostel assaulted another guest.
"He bashed another guest, and didn't even know what he'd done," she said.

She said another discharged patient smashed the front window of the Nook's sister hostel, the Pickled Frog, with an A-frame sign when he was asked to leave after harassing other guests.
"It's really threatening behaviour. We are not at all qualified to deal with that, and it is quite unfair to be expected to have that put on us," Ms Johnson said.
She said discharged patients had also checked themselves in and were later monitored by mental health staff.
"They say 'the hospital sent me', or some other mental health place," Ms Johnson said.
Ms Johnson said the hostel was no longer accepting bookings from the hospital.
"We have had verbal problems where they [discharged patients] had gone around and abused guests, and also problems where they have been physical and violent, and also just really threatening behaviour," she said.

Labor Opposition Leader Rebecca White questioned Health Minister Michael Ferguson about the practice in Parliament.
"[Hospital] staff are coming to us because they are concerned about the pressure that is being placed on them to free up beds," she said.
"They are worried they are being placed in a position where they are potentially discharging patients who they feel need to remain in hospital."
Ms White pointed to a case in which a patient with a history of self-harm had been discharged and sent to a hotel outside of Hobart.
Mr Ferguson accused Ms White of misleading Parliament and said the THS did not discharge acutely unwell patients.
"The rule of THS and the hospital of course, is that you don't discharge patients until it is safe to do so," he said.
He said the patient Ms White had spoken of in Parliament was homeless, was happy to go to the hotel, and was receiving care.
Mr Ferguson said THS staff should be celebrated for helping people who are homeless.
"Staff have been ridiculed first of all for making a clinical judgment that a person is safe for discharge from hospital, that should be supported not ridiculed."
The Mental Health Council said there were gaps in the provision of services for people with mental illness.
Chief executive Connie Digolis said there had been ongoing concerns about housing for people leaving hospital, but was hopeful new mental health services would help alleviate the situation.
"It's really about being able to provide those supports and often being transitional supports, or short-term supports for people then to be able to get back on their feet," she said.


From lead roles in Hollywood to the stages of Paris, Greta Scacchi's acting career has taken her around the world.
But the 57-year-old is particularly fond of the cinema of Italy, where she was born.
"I think that, as in many countries in the world, Italy is in a period of change," Scacchi told RN Drive.
"There's been a struggle with economic pressures and with the pressures of informal immigration.
"Because of the shifting identity of Italy, and the difficulties that people are suffering there, the cinema is beginning to produce a kind of new neo-realism that's as gritty and real and good as some of their post-war cinema."
Scacchi, who is an ambassador for the Italian Film Festival, which is touring capital cities, believes that there is an open reverence for art, academia and culture in Italy, which leads to a very different sort of film than those produced by major Western studios.
"When you watch Italian films it's very engaging, because you must engage with them," she said.
"You are requested, as an audience, not to just lie back and have the thing wash over you — you have to think and apply yourself and then you'll find it's very rewarding.
"It [Italian cinema] doesn't necessarily answer all the questions; the stories can have some inconclusive quality, but that is their truth — not all questions can be answered and things aren't black and white."
Though she is best known for her work in Hollywood films like Presumed Innocent and The Player, for Scacchi those projects were a means to an end — a chance to return to the roles she truly loved in Europe.
"I didn't go to Hollywood until I really had to," Scacchi said.
"European film directors wanted me for a project, but the producers and the money people decided they had to go for a bigger American name.
"When that happened to me the third time, I went to the [United] States."
After two weeks in Los Angeles, Scacchi said she was offered a role in Presumed Innocent.
"So that was the ticket that I needed to get into their kind of American market," she said.
"I soon ran away … I didn't like it very much."
Scacchi's long and varied career has seen her take roles in everything from Australian favourites like Looking for Alibrandi, to period dramas like Emma, alongside the likes of Gwyneth Paltrow.
Having worked on films around the world, she believes that each country has its own distinct culture on set, and America's is the most hierarchical.
"The star system is their form of monarchy," she said.
"I remember when I first walked onto a film set in America and nobody was allowed to look Harrison Ford in the eye."
Yet, when starting out in England, Scacchi was told of the importance of knowing everyone on set.
"In America there was no chance to do that because if you ever met eyes with the focus puller, he would look down at the ground," she said.
When she began working in Italy, Scacchi found that it was necessary to become more distant for her own protection.
"In Italy, when I applied this technique of getting to know the names of the focus puller or the clapper loader, by day three they were saying 'come here and give me a kiss' or 'why don't you sit on my lap', and I realised that in Italy if you are a lead actor, you don't say hello to everybody," she said.
"They don't want you to be familiar — they want you to be just a little more on a pedestal."
And again Scacchi explained her experience of working in Australia was different yet again.
"In Australia, of course that wouldn't go down at all well," she said.
"Everybody here is the same, it's democracy, it's egalitarian, and I actually like that environment most of all."


If you follow the financial news, you'd have heard or read a lot recently about a surging or stubbornly high Australian dollar.
After touching lows below 70 US cents during the commodity crash of 2015, the Aussie has been on a steady course higher against the US dollar, or greenback.
The first phase of that recovery was intimately linked with the bounce back in iron ore and coal prices that has lifted Australia's export prices and finally boosted national incomes — incomes that had been falling since the last, and biggest, commodity boom topped out in 2012.

However, this close correlation appears to have broken down, at least over the past couple of weeks.
The Australian dollar has risen more than 8 per cent since the start of June, hitting 80 US cents in late July and holding that level.
While gains earlier this year correlated closely with rising commodity prices, the past week or two have seen most commodities drop, including a 10 per cent fall in iron ore spot prices.
There are a few reasons why the Australian dollar hasn't responded to this retreat and instead held close to two-and-a-half-year highs.
Paul Dales from Capital Economics said one key reason has been some positive local data.
"The domestic economy has been a bit stronger than people expected," he told the ABC, with the most recent example being another better-than-expected rise in full-time jobs last month.
However, good news on the Australian economy is only half the story of the AUD-USD exchange rate.
"Events in the United States have been surprisingly weak, especially in terms of its inflation figures, so the Australian dollar has received support from a weakening US dollar."
AxiTrader's chief market strategist Greg McKenna said the greenback's weakness is the main reason why the Aussie dollar is caught in the "tractor beam" of 80 US cents.
"My view is that the US dollar is the underappreciated side of the AUD-USD cross," he wrote in a note.
"If you look at all the factors affecting the Aussie dollar this year, it's clear that it is the US dollar's fall which has the major directional influence."
That's obvious if you look at the AUD-USD pair versus the cross-rates — that is how the Aussie is doing against other currencies.

As the graph shows, while the Aussie has been climbing recently against the greenback, it's generally been losing a bit of ground against the euro, British pound and even the Canadian dollar, which is a "commodity currency" similar to Australia's, although much more linked to oil prices.
The reason the US dollar has been falling against most currencies is that traders had been betting on more aggressive rate hikes by the Federal Reserve as they expected President Donald Trump's promised tax cuts and infrastructure spending to boost the economy.

Those policies have stalled, as has the Fed's rate rise timetable.
Recent speeches from key Fed officials had prompted markets to reduce the odds of another US rate hike this year to around 30 per cent, although some very recent economic data has seen that tick back up to 47 per cent.
Lower US interest rates than traders had been expecting meant the US dollar was looking overvalued and that is why it has been sold off.
Greg McKenna said that trend could continue if the outcome of the Fed meeting, which Australians will hear about on Thursday morning, implies lower rates for longer.
"If we see a dovish outcome, as the last batch of Fed speakers we heard from before the pre-meeting blackout period, then the US dollar could be crushed and the Aussie will be back near, perhaps above, 81 cents and its multi-year highs," he noted.
But he expects that the Fed will continue on its path to bring interest rates back up to more typical levels, as well as starting to exit the "quantitative easing" stimulus it has provided since the global financial crisis by selling some of the assets it holds back into the market — so-called tapering.

"While I see the taper as having equivalence to a tightening in rates due to its eventual impact on bond rates, I still believe the US economy justifies higher rates this December and again in 2018," Mr McKenna argued.
Paul Dales no longer thinks rates will rise this year, but expects a series of catch up increases in 2018.
"I do think they will raise them rapidly next year, so it wouldn't completely surprise me if the Australian dollar did fall back to maybe 75 cents by the end of this year and perhaps even to 70 cents next year," he said.


British billionaire Sanjeev Gupta, who purchased the Whyalla steelworks earlier this year, has now bought a majority stake in Adelaide-based energy company Zen Energy.
Zen's work is focused on renewable energy and storage technologies.
The joint venture between Mr Gupta's GFG Alliance and Zen will be known as SIMEC Zen Energy.
In a statement, GFG Alliance described the move as "an opportunity to invest in large-scale power projects to meet its own industrial requirements and support the domestic economy".
Mr Gupta, who is executive chairman of GFG, described the high cost of energy for Australian consumers as "a crying shame for a country so rich in resources".
"Given the issues here, it has been a priority for us to take decisive remedial steps. Combining our power expertise developed in the UK and Zen's local knowledge in Australia, is a natural partnership," he said.
Zen chairman Ross Garnaut described the move as a "perfect match".
"Their understanding of the energy dilemma this country faces, which is making much of our industry uncommercial and environmentally unsustainable, means we see the market need and opportunity in the same way," he said.
Last month, Mr Gupta toured the Whyalla steelworks, promising to invest well over $1 billion in the business in the short to medium term with "far grander plans" in sight.
At the time, he said the company had an immediate plan to invest in the steelworks' existing co-generation plant to bolster its energy capacity.
GFG Alliance has 500 megawatts of operating power in the UK and another 500 megawatts under construction.


The rollout of the new $10 note began on Wednesday, featuring a number of improved security features designed to protect the note against counterfeiting.
However, the rollout of the new $5 notes last year experienced a number of issues, with many notes unable to be read by many vending machines, or automated note readers at supermarkets.
Will there be similar issues this time? Here's how the rollout is expected to unfold.

The $10 note incorporates the same security measures as the $5 note, including a top-to-bottom clear window, complex holograms and areas only visible under UV light.
Both notes also included new tactile measures to help aid those who are visually impaired, with two bumps added on the long edges of the note next to the top to bottom window.
It's been almost 25 years since the Reserve Bank (RBA) released a new series of bank note.
"The technology available to counterfeiters, like the technology generally in the community, is improving all the time. So we need to stay several steps ahead of the counterfeiters," RBA assistant governor Lindsay Boulton told the World Today.
This time around, the RBA said it had given businesses operating vending machines enough notice about new notes so they could upgrade equipment if necessary.
"The Reserve Bank works closely with bank note equipment operators and operators of vending machines to make sure they're ready to accept the notes and we have provided assistance to them over the course of the program of releasing our bank notes," Mr Boulton told News Breakfast.
"We have made production-quality bank notes available to equipment manufacturers and operators over the past six months so they can prepare their machines to be ready to accept the new notes."
National Vending Association president Nick Aronis said "we're hoping it's going to be a smoother transaction".
"Most of the major issues that we encountered with the new $5 note have been resolved," he told ABC Radio Brisbane.
"Most of the vending industry has upgraded all the hardware that was not compatible. So we believe this time around it's going to be a smoother transition by simply just upgrading the firmware on all the note readers."

New firmware has been installed on more than 100,000 vending machines in Australia, at a cost of roughly $4 million, but it is impossible to guarantee it will work until the new notes are used.
"We're really not going to know how they will perform until the $10 note is in circulation and it gets used and tested thoroughly," Mr Aronis, who is also the managing director of vending machine supplier Ventrader, said.
That's because all types of note readers — regardless of what equipment they are installed in — are based on reading sensors, which pick up on the various elements of different types of bank notes.
So any variances from that note — including the clear strip, the fluorescent ink, the raised printing and the size of the note — can have an impact on whether the note readers accept or reject it.
"The RBA do communicate [with us] and provide us with sample notes [but] the issue that you have, which is what happened with the $5 note, is if you take a number of notes from various batches that are manufactured, you will see variances, and according to the RBA these are acceptable tolerances when the note is manufactured," Mr Aronis said.
"Now those tolerances mean that the clear strip may vary in width or positioning as well as some of the other elements on the note itself and we've also experienced the overall size of the note may vary as well.
"Now, all those variances have an impact on whether the note can be read successfully or not."

Yes. The existing series is still legal tender.
"The public can continue to use them in exactly the same way they have in past," Mr Bolton said.
"Over the next weeks and months, as the new $10 note makes its way out into the community, the old series will circulate through as they normally do, through the Reserve Bank's processing centres."
As the notes make their way back, the RBA will take the opportunity to withdraw and replace them with the new $10 note.
After the release of the $5 and $10 notes, the RBA is now planning to rollout a new $50 note in roughly the next 12 months.
"That is our highest-circulating note, so therefore we think it's important that we release that one sooner rather than later, again to stay ahead of the counterfeits," Mr Boulton said.


Gold Coast Mayor Tom Tate has spoken to the ABC for the first time since journalists were kicked out of his press conference yesterday.
Councillor Tate said that event was to discuss a Four Corners story that probed links between councillors and developers on the Gold Coast.
Cr Tate said he planned to sue the ABC over that story, which was why the ABC's journalists were banned from the press conference, while other media were not.
"It is a specific issue and I wouldn't talk to the ABC about that issue, it wasn't about other matters," he said.
"As I have said my doors are always open and happy to discuss any matters with the ABC except the litigation."
Cr Tate was at an opening for a high-rise building at Surfers Paradise this morning when he spoke to the media.
A group of workers with the CFMEU union chanted slogans against the Mayor.
But Cr Tate said he was not upset.
"A lot of the workers said 'Good on you Tom'," he said.
"I think you [the ABC] must have selective hearing."
Cr Tate also spoke about a cruise ship terminal he proposed to build off the Southport Spit.
A large section of the feasibility study on the terminal was kept from the public until it was published by Four Corners this week.
The 56-page redacted section warned council that ships could be pushed onshore by heavy winds or waves and the project was unlikely to recoup the cost of construction within 30 years of operation.
But Cr Tate defended the nearly half-a-billion-dollar project, insisting the design was safe and it would be good for the regional economy.
"I don't know what book you have been reading," he told the ABC.
"The business case stacks up."
The project is still in a development stage.


Former prime minister Tony Abbott has intensified the pressure on Malcolm Turnbull over a clean energy target.
It is understood Mr Abbott could cross the floor to vote against Government legislation to reduce greenhouse emissions by creating incentives for renewables or cleaner energy sources.
But there are several steps required before there would be a vote in Parliament to test whether the former leader would carry out that threat.
Chief Scientist Alan Finkel recommended the clean energy target in his report to the Government in June.
Mr Turnbull adopted all of the recommendations in that report except the clean energy target.
He recently said he was aiming to make a decision on the target by the end of this year.
It is understood that the Government is considering a different title for the target and it would likely to take a different form than Dr Finkel recommended so that it could include so-called "clean-coal".
But with Mr Abbott leading the push against any further measures to reduce emissions, Mr Turnbull has yet not spelled out details or a specific timetable.

It is not clear when the Coalition party room would be asked to debate and decide a clean energy target.
"It would be unconscionable — I underline that word unconscionable, for a Government that was originally elected promising to abolish the carbon tax and to end Labor's climate obsessions to go further down this renewable path," Mr Abbott told Sky News.
He indicated his views had support within the Coalition party room.

"I think the important thing is the party room, if necessary, saves the Government from itself," he said.
Malcolm Turnbull was repeatedly asked about Mr Abbott's position but deflected to criticism of Labor, and downplayed internal divisions.
"I'm not going to run a commentary on other people's remarks," he said.
"Everyone in the Coalition, of which Mr Abbott is a member, are united in ensuring that Australians have affordable and reliable energy."
Nationals MP George Christensen has also said he would vote against a clean energy target in any form.
His Nationals colleague Ken O'Dowd told the ABC's World Today program he was also prepared to cross the floor if he was not satisfied with the Government's proposal.
Deputy Prime Minister and National Party leader Barnaby Joyce would not answer when asked what his party's position is on the clean energy target.
"We stand for making sure we keep manufacturing workers in a job, making sure we keep power workers in a job, making sure that we keep Mr and Mrs Smith at 123 Jones Street with a power bill that they can afford that's where I stand," he said.
Mr Joyce said the Government would meet its obligations under the Paris agreement on reducing greenhouse emissions, but again did not say what mechanism it would adopt.
Mr Joyce defended Mr Abbott's commentary against the Government's policy, "because he is a backbencher".
"That is one of the graces you have on the backbench that you have the capacity to express your views the way you see fit," Mr Joyce said.


Ever felt the urge to build a battery?
Now it is possible after the Queensland University of Technology (QUT) created Australia's first lithium-ion battery at a purpose-built facility on Brisbane's northside.
It took three years and $4 million to develop the facility, which can produce batteries similar to those used to power Tesla cars.

Peter Talbot from QUT's Institute for Future Environments said the endeavour would hopefully kick-start an Australian battery manufacturing industry.
"At the moment we can take someone to our facility and within an hour or two show them how to produce a lithium battery, and they can take it away in a device to run a little torch or something — it's not that hard," Professor Talbot said.
"We get in raw material from Australian suppliers and we develop the chemicals that go into the batteries and we actually roll and make the batteries and test them ourselves.
"This process could be automated to enable Australia to have a competitive advantage in a manufacturing space that is currently dominated by China."
Lithium ion batteries are one of the most popular type of rechargeable batteries, and are used in portable electronics from mobile phones, to power tools and drones.
The raw material — lithium — was already mined in Australia, and Professor Talbot said the facility could value-add to the mining industry.
"As the middle class in the ASEAN (Association of South-East Asian Nations) region grows, so too will the demand for lithium-ion battery operated goods," he said.
"As more and more vehicles in the future are manufactured to run on battery power, the development of longer lasting batteries will be crucial to a vehicle's overall efficiency and appeal to consumers."

He said there had been enormous interest in QUT's project.
"This is a good example of value from universities where we can interact with industry and help educate them and work with them to develop ongoing important industries in Australia," Professor Talbot said.
"This research wouldn't have been possible without the financial backing of the Australian and Malaysian governments and highlights the importance of international research partnerships in the efforts to solve global problems."



Iron ore is heading for its fourth consecutive week of falling prices as fears of faltering demand and tougher seasonal pollution controls start to bite.

Having peaked near $US80 a tonne last month, prices have tumbled more than 10 per cent since.
There appears to be little hope of any immediate change in sentiment with forward looking indicators all looking weak.
The principal issue is the expectation steel demand will fall as authorities move to tighten credit to rein in debt and speculative excesses.
Broad-based economic data in August revealed industrial production, fixed asset investment — a proxy for infrastructure and property construction — and retail sales all pointed to a slowing economy, following on from a equally subdued reading in July.
As well, August credit figures pointed to China's central bank slowing the injection of money into the economy over the past two quarters, tightening overall liquidity in the economy.
That tightness has flowed through to a rapidly cooling property market.
Last month new house prices in tier one cities grew at an annualised pace of less than 5 per cent, compared to a peak of more than 30 per cent early last year.
Significantly, prices in Shenzhen are now 2 per cent down over the year, while Shanghai is up just 3 per cent.
The credit-fuelled construction boom has been a significant driver in the demand for steel and its raw materials — iron ore and coking coal.
Westpac's Elliot Clarke said the actions by authorities are clearly continuing to have a significant effect on the property market.

"The August 70-city property price data was telling, being the first time that annual growth in tier one new home prices has fallen below that of tiers two and three," Mr Clarke said.
"The reaction of developers to continued price gains remains muted. The pace of growth in sales and starts continues to trend down."
Mr Clarke said fixed asset investment was likely to continue to slow through next year.
"The residential construction sector in China is maturing and under strict regulation. Future growth cycles will be muted relative to history."
The more immediate impact on iron ore prices is likely to come from the seasonal crackdown on air pollution caused by streel production.
The state-controlled Xiahua news agency has reported that key steel making areas — such as Hebei province, outside Beijing, and the port city of Tianjin — have been ordered to cut steel production by up to 50 per cent by mid-November.
Xiahua said authorities were anxious to pull back on coal-based air pollution that rises by 30 per cent as winter approaches and central heating is switched on.
Much of the pull back in production has been due to the shut down of illegal electric induction furnaces.
However, this is not necessarily bad news for big iron ore exporters such as BHP, Rio Tinto and Fortescue as the older furnaces tend to use lower grade ores and scrap steel as their feedstock.
Nonetheless, this week's significant step down in prices has taken its toll on the big miners, with their share prices down around 5 to 8 per cent in recent days.
Westpac forecasts that iron ore will be sitting at around current levels at the end of the year, but will be well below $US60 a tonne this time next year.


Aquaculture is widely recognised as the world's fastest growing food sector, worth around US$200 billion by some estimates.
As the world's population grows by an estimated 1.6 billion people over the coming three decades, so will the demand for protein.
In Western countries it is seen as an ethical alternative, but the established aquaculture process has a fatal flaw — it's aiding in the depletion of ocean stocks, because many farmed fish have long been fed on fishmeal made from their wild counterparts.
It's a practice Jason Drew, the chief executive of a South African business called AgriProtein, describes as "sheer madness".
"The fish-in to fish-out ratio is negative," he says.
Alternative forms of fish food have been developed in the past and some, like the CSIRO-engineered Novaq, are being used by Australian prawn farmers to not only sustain the animals, but also increase their growth weight.
But a major problem with many alternatives remains the cost.
Watching the livestock graze at AgriProtein's Cape Town facility doesn't exactly fill one with splendoured visions of bucolic serenity.
The polite name for what they raise is larvae. The vernacular is maggot.

Dubbed the world's first industrial-scale insect recycling site, the new facility takes more than 250 tonnes of organic waste a day and uses it to produce around 50 tonnes of MagMeal — a food source for fish made from dried maggots.
The process is driven by more than 8.5 billion black soldier flies.
Mr Drew said it took eight years of experimentation and "abject failure" before they hit on the perfect breeding process.
"You can go out to almost any university bookshop and find theses on how to kill flies," he says.
"But very few people have actually wanted to make them survive and thrive, apart from ourselves."
Some of AgriProtein's funding has come through the Australian Government's aid and development programme, and the company plans to open seven more maggot factories in the next year — three in Saudi Arabia alone.
MagMeal might be food for animals, but the farmed fish it supports soon end up in kitchens around the world, helping to meet the exponential demand for protein that's resulted from the growth in prosperity of the new middle class in Asia and Africa.
One of the problems associated with industrial-scale fish-farming is how to control disease.
By some estimates, around 5 per cent of the world's farmed fish stocks are lost each year to pathogens.
Outbreaks are currently dealt with either by the use of antibiotics or vaccination.

Antibiotic overuse is problematic, because it can lead to an increase in viral resistance which, in turn, poses a danger to human health.
But the method is favoured by aquaculture operators because of the difficulties involved in hand-vaccinating fish.
Biotechnology developer Simon Porphy estimates around $US10 billion is lost to disease every year.
"Ten billion dollars worth of fish stock is equal to feeding 90 million people," he says. "That's the size of the population of Vietnam."
Mr Porphy's Irish-based company MicroSynbiotiX has been working on a form of oral vaccination, using natural materials and designed to be environmentally friendly.
"We realised that microalgae are a natural part of the fish diet and they're typically used in the hatcheries. What we are doing is basically genetically modifying the microalgae to encapsulate the vaccine," he said.
"Vaccines get destroyed in the stomach of fish since they are quite acidic, so we wanted to come up with an oral delivery mechanism that can overcome this particular challenge.
"The digestion process of the fish will unlock the vaccine and the vaccine will get absorbed in the hindgut of the fish, thereby eliciting a desirable immune response."
In many parts of the developing world families have traditionally raised fish in basic ponds to supplement their diet.
Aquaponics can provide a modern alternative, but building small household systems can be expensive and difficult to maintain.

Last year, Michigan-based inventor Michelle Leach was recognised for her work in developing a more resilient, low-cost aquaponic system by the Australian Government's Blue Economy Challenge, which seeks to reengineer aquaculture practice.
Ms Leach's inflatable aquaponic food production system was piloted in rural El Salvador with the assistance of non-profit organisations, and is just about to be trialled in Tanzania in East Africa.
Aquaponics involves the growing of vegetable and fish in a single recirculating biofilter-based system.
"Essentially the fish produce waste, and there's beneficial bacteria living in the system that break that waste down into a form of nitrogen, which plants can absolve," Ms Leach said.

"The fish are essentially fertilising the plants and the plants are cleaning the water for the fish. It's a way to grow a lot of food in a very small area using little water."
The current version, dubbed "The Oasis", costs around $US200 and resembles a small blow-up swimming pool.
"If you are in the tropical world you can grow 12 months out of the year, so that's two crops of 100 tilapia per year, and probably around 600 pounds of tomatoes," Ms Leach said.
"A person should be very easily able to pay back their loan within the first two years."

For many impoverished families, $US200 can prove to be a lot of money, so Ms Leach hopes micro-finance institutions will help make the technology available to as many people as possible.
While the system has been deliberately scaled down, she said it doesn't always have to be that way.
"We've focused on making it suitable to really improve the diet of a family of four to six members, with just enough to sell so that they have money to purchase the crop inputs, more fish and seeds for the next crop cycle," she said.
"That doesn't mean once a person understands how to do aquaponics, they couldn't have two systems and start increasing their income."


US President Donald Trump's escalating war of words with North Korea has failed to spook global stock markets.

"Rocket man [Kim Jong Un] is on a suicide mission for himself and his regime," President Trump said in his first address to the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday.

He also said "we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea" if the rogue nation does not back down from its recent nuclear threats.
The President's earlier threat to reign in Pyongyang with "fire and fury" previously triggered a stock market sell-off in early August.
The latest warning had no effect on Wall Street or European markets — nor was there a flood of investors buying safe haven assets like gold and the Japanese yen, as investors shrugged off his comments.
What investors care more about is the Federal Reserve's upcoming signals on when US interest rates will rise, and how it plans to unwind $US4.5 trillion worth of stimulus it injected into the American economy after the global financial crisis.

The Fed began its two-day monetary policy meeting overnight.
The overwhelming market consensus is that tomorrow the US central bank will decide that interest rates will remain on hold.
Wall Street finished slightly higher on Tuesday, with stocks trading in a narrow range ahead of the Fed's decision.
Most sectors finished in positive territory, with the S&P financial index provided the biggest boost to the US stock market, gaining 0.8 per cent.
The US also released several pieces of mixed economic data overnight.
American import prices had their biggest gain in seven months, jumping by 0.6 per cent in August, the latest figures from the Labor Department revealed. The main contributor do that uplift was a surge in petroleum costs.
But homebuilding in the US fell for the second straight month. Housing starts fell by 0.8 per cent last month (to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.18 million units), the Commerce Department said.
On the other hand, the number of building permits issued rose 5.7 per cent to a rate of 1.3 million units last month — also its highest level in seven months.
Australian shares are likely to follow Wall Street's solid lead, and open higher today.
It looks to be a quiet day in the sense that no major local economic figures will be released today.
However, once again, the Australian dollar has rebounded past the 80 US cent mark on the back of a weaker US dollar.
That is despite the price of Australia's key export, iron ore, also plummeting by 4.1 per cent.


Electricity company AGL is considering replacing its ageing Liddell coal-fired power station in the NSW Hunter region with pumped hydro and gas generation.

The ABC can reveal the options are likely to be part of the company's plan to replace the lost electricity generation when Liddell reaches its scheduled closure in 2022.
AGL is resisting demands from the Turnbull Government to keep the 45-year-old coal-fired plant open beyond 2022, saying it is no longer reliable or financially viable.
Under pressure from Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, AGL chief executive Andy Vesey last week agreed to put to his board a proposal to keep the coal-fired power station open for another five years or sell it to another operator prepared to keep it running.
AGL will reveal its proposal within 90 days.
A 2013 report commissioned by the NSW Government, obtained by the ABC, shows it would cost at least $980 million to keep Liddell open for an extra 10 years.
This is on top of the expense required for maintenance until 2022.
"By extending the operation of the power station a further 10 years, increased tube failures and more frequent breakdown of plant and equipment can be anticipated," the report said.
"Higher unplanned availability losses should be projected for the final 10 years even with the additional expenditure provided."

The ABC understands AGL is considering replacing the coal-fired generators with pumped hydro or gas to make good on Mr Vesey's pledge to "avoid a market shortfall once the Liddell coal-fired power station retires in 2022".
One option is to split the artificial Lake Liddell into two different levels or use nearby disused mines to allow for pumped hydro power generation.
A more conventional option will be to build open cycle gas turbines or so-called reciprocating gas engines to generate power at times of high need.
The Liddell power plant generates a maximum 2000MW, but it failed during February's heatwave and contributed to the blackouts.
The station, built in the early 1970s, comprises four 500MW units, which burn pulverised black coal.



Latrobe City Council has criticised the push for the Heritage Council of Victoria to consider Hazelwood Power Station's nomination for heritage protection.
The station was shut down in March 2017 after more than half a century of operation.
It is in the process of being decommissioned in preparation for the mine site's transformation into a lake.
But Moe resident Cheryl Wragg wants the ageing plant to form part of a Latrobe Valley industrial history trail.
Ms Wragg was also behind the request to protect the old Morwell Power Station and Briquette Factory that prevented its demolition.
She said both sites are a big part of Victoria's history.
"This is not about putting a fence and a big padlock on a gate around these facilities and watching them decay and fall down, this is about taking those facilities and rendering them safe and opening them up to the public," she said.
Ms Wragg said it would be a mistake to demolish the buildings.
"I am committed, as are any number of other people around the Latrobe Valley, to the development of an industrial heritage trail and you can only develop an industrial heritage trail if you conserve, retain and repurpose that industrial heritage," she said.
A spokesman for the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning said the "nomination will be assessed by heritage experts and considered on its merits".
The push has drawn criticism from the Latrobe City Council due to the site being full of asbestos which the Council said would be costly to maintain.

Mayor Kellie O'Callaghan said ratepayers were concerned it could be them picking up the bill.

"I think our community has been really clear they don't want to see any heritage listing resulting in the property that just becomes a burden for the community that may be left to deteriorate," she said.
"We certainly don't want any abandoned, decaying industrial sites."
Cr O'Callaghan wants a guarantee that the burden for looking after any protected sites will not fall to the Council.
"We just want to make sure there's a really solid consultation process around the consideration," she said.
The site's owner, Engie, has hired its own heritage consultants to identify items of significance at the power station and mine.
The company's spokeswoman said it would consult with the community, historical societies and the Latrobe City Council to "determine the most appropriate and respectful way to acknowledge the contribution Hazelwood made to the Latrobe Valley community and the state".


Australia's biggest miner BHP has confirmed it is reconsidering its membership of the country's peak mining lobby, the Minerals Council.

BHP announced it would review its membership of all industry associations, and publish the findings, by the end of this year.
The review comes hot on the tail of a demand by activist shareholders that the miner sever ties with the council, which successfully advocated for the abolition of the carbon price and is currently lobbying the Federal Government to reject a clean energy target.
"We are aware that some civil society and other organisations believe that, where an industry body advocates for a position which does not align with our own, we should cease to be a member of that industry body," BHP said in a statement issued overnight.
The activist's resolution to be tabled at the company's AGM next month is also calling for BHP to terminate its membership of the World Coal Association which, along with the Minerals Council, is also calling for a rejection of a clean energy target.
The resolution was lodged on Friday, and it appears to have hit on some issues already being discussed in the BHP boardroom.

Last month, the miner's head of external affairs, Geoff Healey, threw the first punch in a speech at a Minerals Council event, saying the two weren't seeing eye to eye on some issues.
"We recognise that we need to do even more to publicise where we hold materially different positions to those expressed by industry associations, including the MCA. And we will."
Brynn O'Brien, the director of the Australian Centre for Corporate Responsibility, which wrote the resolution, welcomed BHP's review of its membership of organisations.
"Obviously BHP understands, as well as its investors, that membership of the [Minerals Council] comes with profound risks to shareholder value. We are pleased that BHP has acknowledged these risks," she said.
"The [Minerals Council] has demonstrated a pattern of vociferous and influential lobbying which has obstructed progress on policy in Australia towards achieving policy measures aimed at restoring stability to Australia's energy markets and taking evidence-based action on climate change.
"BHP's positions on several key policy issues are at odds with these lobbying activities."
BHP has said it will consider the resolutions at the AGM, however the board is not recommending them to shareholders.
The Minerals Council of Australia declined to comment.


How many people travel through Brisbane's airport each day and what does the future hold for one of the country's busiest airports?
Last year more than 5.6 million passengers passed through the Brisbane International Airport alone.
It was also named Australia's leading airport last year at the World Travel Awards, beating Sydney and Melbourne for the title which looked at service standards and ease of travel.

Passenger numbers in Brisbane are set to increase with new direct flights to Beijing announced this week as part of the State Government's Connecting With Asia initiative.
Brisbane Airport Corporation's Rachel Crowley said the airport was expanding — quickly.
"The major growth in the last year has been into Asia, and it's a huge win to be flying directly to Beijing for Queensland and nearby trading areas," she said.
"We've got that core base of services into China and that's where the aviation growth internationally is coming from."
The $120 million international terminal expansion is set to be finished by 2018, allowing additional Airbus A380s to park in the area.

"We're expanding one end of the terminal by adding aircraft parking bays," Ms Crowley told ABC Radio Brisbane's Steve Austin.
"As well as this, six boarding zones will be added as well as additional aerobridges."
Ms Crowley said the recent announcement by Qantas to base its new Dreamliner 787-900s in Brisbane will open up new markets for tourism also.
"If Qantas look at direct flights to Chicago, Brisbane will be the only location that can service Chicago direct — you couldn't do that from Sydney as it's too far," she said.
The airport's second runway is set to be completed by 2020 but machinery is not yet onsite.
"For the last few years it's been about the 12 million cubic metres of sand on the site and setting up the base," Ms Crowley said.
"It's a 3.3-kilometre runway with 12 kilometres of taxiways ... it's right on track and will double our capacity."

Often seen as a city within the city, Ms Crowley said the airport precinct would also continue to grow.
"We envisage in 20 years there will be 45,000 people working onsite and we have 500 hectares of development land which is not aviation-based."
Ms Crowley said a new solar project would help lower the power costs of both airports.
"We're putting together 22,000 solar panels on rooftops of various buildings around the airport and that will take up 18 per cent of our electricity consumption.
"It's the perfect place to put a lot of solar.
"[It's] the biggest single rooftop site in Australia."


Police say they have arrested 10 protesters who were blockading the road to the Abbot Point coal terminal near Bowen in central Queensland.
About 50 people, including members of anti-Adani group Front Line Action on Coal, held banners and voiced their concerns at plans to develop the Carmichael coal mine facility in the north of the Galilee Basin in central Queensland.

Police said they charged 10 people with trespassing on business land, and those arrested had been taken to the Bowen watch house.
Whitsundays Police inspector Steve O'Connell said it was unfortunate arrests had to be made, but he was happy with the overall peaceful nature of the protest.
Bowen resident of 50 years, Elvyn Smith, attended the protest because she had concerns about the environmental impact of the proposed mine.
"At this time with climate change and the knowledge we have on that, that it is not a good time to be opening a large coal mine," Ms Smith said.
"With the extreme weather events that have been happening, coal is the thing that is fuelling this.
"I am here for future generations to protect this great place that we have."
Local councillor Mike Brunker said the protesters did not represent the views of local residents who opposed the protest.
"Finally now we see a bit of light at the end of the tunnel, and now we come and see this sort of rubbish. People are sick of it," Cr Brunker said.

Whitsundays Mayor Andrew Wilcox said the council was taking extra measures to protect the Bowen water supply after activists hung a banner on the town's reservoir.
Cr Wilcox said the council was not taking any risks.

"We're taking extra precautions now. We are just making sure we're doing more patrols," Cr Wilcox said.
"At the end of the day it's already all secured, but we're just doing that and we're also putting some cameras around the place.
"And then if we do catch some of these people, we hope that they face the long arm of the law."




When 94-year-old billionaire Len Ainsworth started making poker machines, Australia was a very different place: Robert Menzies was prime minister, thousands lined the streets for the first visit of the young Queen Elizabeth II and Nat King Cole dominated the charts.
"I was busy making dental supplies — my father having been a dentist — and he made dental supplies and equipment as a hobby. He said I ruined his hobby by turning it into a business and actually, I did do that," Mr Ainsworth remembers.
It was the early 1950s; Len was a young man in his 20s.
"This fellow Joe Haywood — an Englishman, a very bright fellow — asked me if I'd ever thought of making a poker machine," he says.
"So I said 'what's that? I don't know about them'. So he said, 'it's got a handle, you put money in them, you spin the reels and you might even get winnings from it'."
It was the chance jackpot any poker machine player would dream of.
But Mr Ainsworth had no idea what was to come: two personal fortunes and a reputation as the icon of one of the most controversial legal industries in the world.
His rise is documented in the new ABC podcast series How Do You Sleep At Night?

Back then, the plan was simple — Len and Joe would make the machines, to get the money, to build the dentist chairs. That was the big dream.
They called their company Club Man. Poker machines weren't legal yet, but it wasn't long before an agent came knocking.
"The contract in the first place was for two machines a week, and within a week he was back saying 'could he have four a week?'" Ms Ainsworth remembers.
"Then another week went past and it was eight a week… and then it became 16 a week… and then it became 32. And each time Joe said, 'can do'."
By late 1954, Mr Ainsworth had made his first enemies.

"I had a phone call from Joe, who lived next door to the factory. And he said, 'our roof's been blown in with a gelignite bomb'," he says.
"I went out and there were fire engines in the street, ambulances in the street, police everywhere. And there was a little man from The Telegraph dodging around with a photographer on his heels and he said to me, 'who did this?' and I said, 'I've no idea'.
"He said, 'do you think you've got enemies?' I said 'you know, I'm beginning to wonder'.
"I suppose I was surprised. I'm a calm person.
"The police said to me 'buy a shotgun and put chicken wire on your windows. You're in the big league now, son'."
In 1956, the pokies became legal in the pubs and clubs of New South Wales and Ainsworth's dreams grew bigger. He had ditched the name Club Man and his new company, Aristocrat, was born.
"I went to America and my eyes nearly popped when I saw the machines in Reno," he says.
"I was transfixed. I said 'I've just seen something that will make me a million'."
Len's rise and rise continued and as it did, his family grew. He had five boys to his first wife and another two to his second wife.
In 1994, a prostate cancer scare changed everything. His doctor told him he could be dead within the year.
"I thought the best thing to do would be to divide my estate up — which included the whole of Aristocrat at that time — and give it to my wife, my ex-wife, and my seven children," he says.
"So I divided it nine ways and gave it away."
But then after giving it all away, he got better, and his family became very wealthy.

Two years after the cancer scare, Aristocrat was floated on the Australian stock market, the share price went up, and so did all his family's fortunes.
Rather than retiring, the pokies king decided to have another crack at business — he started a rival pokies company called Ainsworth, which he runs to this day.
"Manufacturing is in my bones, really. I have to make things. That's what I like doing. So I'm a relatively creative person," Mr Ainsworth says.
"I am not an artist, but I can tell whether something is right or whether it's wrong for our industry. So I've been very fortunate in that direction."
Every year, Australians put $13 billion through the pokies. We have around 200,000 machines — roughly one machine per 100 people.
The states make significant revenue from them, despite growing warnings from public health experts about the damage these games can do.
But Mr Ainsworth describes claims that pokies are designed to addict as "total rubbish" and "nonsense".

"I mean, if you like something you'll continue to do it," he says.
"It's like kissing girls. Tell me the man that stopped kissing girls because he didn't like it."
Mr Ainsworth says his job is to provide entertainment, "or, as the English would say, amusement with a price".
"We do that very successfully. We make all kinds of features to entertain people, and it's really up to them from there," he says.
"I'll feel responsible for what individuals do when General Motors feel responsible for the accidents that some nut at the wheel might have."
Mr Ainsworth says his job is to provide machines which keep his customers happy, and their job is to be responsible to their customers — the people who play machines.
"I think if you can't control yourself, whether it's gluttony or where it's playing machines or whatever, well it's time you took some lessons," he says.
You can hear more about Len Ainsworth's life and career and how he responds to judgement in the new ABC podcast How Do You Sleep At Night? You can binge all six episodes now on the new ABC Listen app or get one a week on itunes.


An elderly woman has been robbed of more than half a million dollars after scammers pretended to be her settlement agent and convinced her son to transfer cash into a bogus account.
The 83-year-old woman was one of six people targeted by similar cyber attacks in the last two months.
She was trying to buy a property in the western suburbs when it is believed scammers intercepted emails between her son, who was acting on her behalf, and her settlement agent.
An email asked for $558,000 as the final payment for the property to be transferred into an account.
By the time the son realised it was fake, it was too late, with just $1,000 left in the account.
In late August two clients of another western suburbs settlement agency lost $25,658 after emails were intercepted, and three payments towards property purchases were sent to scam bank accounts.
On September 13, another western suburbs agent and property manager had her account hacked.
Three prospective tenants received emails saying their applications were successful, and transferred a total of $7,300 into the accounts.

Consumer Protection commissioner Dave Hillyard warned agents to be on alert.
"We need to get to the bottom of this sort of stuff, we've got to alert the community, and more importantly back to the industry, to say you're got to really ramp up your security settings on your emails," he said.
A similar scam almost netted $200,000 from a father and son buying property south of Perth earlier this year, but they noticed the email address was slightly different to their agency's.
Perth residents have also been targeted after fraudsters successfully changed contact details of properties of South Africans living overseas, and then attempted to sell the properties.
In 2010, a man had his Karrinyup home sold for $485,000 while he was living overseas.
An Auditor-General's investigation into the regulation of the state's real estate industry in 2015 found there was "sound" oversight in place, and the risk of direct financial loss remained low.
The head of WA's real estate institute also urged agents to be more careful, but stopped short of calling for greater regulation of the industry.
REIWA President Hayden Groves said the industry already had strict regulations in place.
"As property managers they undergo strict and daily banking reconciliations … so there already is very strong regulation for the real estate industry in holding other people's monies," he said.
"I think more regulation is probably impossible, because the sophisticated nature of these phishing scams and these fraudsters is such that more regulation and more compliance … I don't think makes a difference."


After a one-hour creditors' meeting, US media giant CBS has emerged as the victorious bidder for the struggling Ten Network.

This is the second defeat for Australian media moguls Lachlan Murdoch and Bruce Gordon in two days.
Their unsuccessful bid to take over Ten follows Monday's decision by the Supreme Court of NSW.
The court ruled it would not restrain Tuesday's second creditors' meeting, nor would it restrict CBS's voting rights.
The big question on everyone's mind is whether Mr Gordon and Mr Murdoch will appeal against the court's decision.
After the meeting, Mark Korda, the partner of Ten's administrators KordaMentha, told reporters the disappointed duo have not yet lodged an appeal.
That confirmed what the NSW Court of Appeal told the ABC this morning.
"If other parties want to challenge that decision, they have their legal rights to do so," Mr Korda said.

Two votes were put forward to the creditors on Tuesday.

The first was whether to adjourn the meeting to another date, which they decided not to do.
The second vote was on the substantive matter of whether creditors preferred CBS's bid, or the joint Gordon-Murdoch bid.
"The creditors have decided on the future of Ten," Mr Korda said.
"What they decided was to vote — more than 50 per cent in value [of votes] and more than 50 per cent in number [of individual voters] to accept the CBS deed of company arrangement."
In terms of the numbers of voters, he said it was an "overwhelming vote in favour of CBS".
During the meeting, a change was made to CBS's revised bid, submitted to Ten's administrators on Monday evening.
It is understood CBS's new bid will pay unsecured creditors just over $40 million — $8 million higher than its original bid.
It comes after media moguls Bruce Gordon and Lachlan Murdoch submitted their latest bid last Friday, upping their offer to unsecured creditors from $35 million to $55 million.
"[CBS] increased their offer to Fox — their proposal is to negotiate with Fox a new content agreement," Mr Korda said.
"Failing that, a payment of $12 million, that was increased from up to $3.4 million."
Mr Korda said the CBS bid offered "the best return to creditors" and had "the least execution risk".
"It's pretty much business as usual for employees and for the program," Mr Korda said.
He confirmed the CBS takeover would be finalised within four to five weeks in what he called a "short settlement".
In the meantime, CBS is still waiting for the Foreign Investments Review Board (FIRB) to approve its takeover of the Ten Network.
When asked about his thoughts about Ten's future, Mr Korda said: "The industry is excited about $27-billion big brother [CBS] looking after Channel Ten."
KordaMentha expects to release the final voting results on Wednesday or Thursday.


Financials stocks boosted Wall Street at the start of the US trading week, which should bode well for Australian shares.

US and European markets finished higher overnight, and will likely provide a strong lead for the local share market.
Although North Korea's latest missile test happened on Friday, investors appear to have become de-sensitised.
The evidence of this includes: the traditional safe haven asset, gold, falling by 1 per cent; the US dollar strengthening; and the CBOE Volatility Index (VIX) trading 0.5 per cent lower at 10.12.
What will more likely spook investors is an interest rate hike.
This week's main event is the Federal Reserve's two-day meeting to discuss monetary policy, though it is unlikely the Fed will be announcing a rate hike on this occasion.
The Dow Jones index ploughed through the US trading day to close at its fifth consecutive fresh-record — up 0.3 per cent to 22,331.
A large part of that boost came from the financials sector, with Goldman Sachs, Bank of America and JPMorgan shares all gaining more than 1 per cent each.
The optimism for financial stocks which boosted the Dow comes ahead of tomorrow's Fed meeting.
Even with a rate hike appearing unlikely, investors will be paying close attention to the Fed's comments on how it plans to unwind the $US4.5 trillion worth of government securities and other debt instruments on its books.
The American central bank accumulated these assets since the global financial crisis (GFC) as part of its quantitative easing strategy — to effectively throw a lifeline to the US by injecting more cash into its economy.
Before the GFC, almost 10 years ago, the Fed's pile of debt was substantially smaller at less than $US1 trillion.
On the other hand, the technology sector came under pressure on Monday, and finished practically flat.
Although the tech-heavy Nasdaq hit a record in the middle of its trading day, it pared back its gains by the end, and finished just slightly higher, up by 0.1 per cent.
Microsoft and Alphabet (Google's parent company) stocks fell 0.2 and 0.6 per cent respectively.
This was after Amazon Web Services announced it would move to charging businesses in one-second increments for use of its popular EC2 cloud computing servers.
Amazon's share price fell 1.3 per cent at Monday's close of trade.
Amazon has been charging by the hour for the use of its servers for the past 11 years.  In comparison, Microsoft's Azure and Google charge by the minute for the use of their servers.
A classic strategy for Amazon over the years has been price cutting.
"Per-second" pricing seems to be a continuation of that strategy for the purpose of increasing its market share.
ASX futures are up slightly by 0.1 per cent — which points to a slightly higher open for local shares.
In economic news, the Bureau of Statistics will release national housing price figures for the second-quarter.  -polled economists are expecting housing prices to rise by 1.1 per cent.
Also, the Reserve Bank will release the minutes of its board meeting from earlier this month.
"The RBA has been playing up what it says are signs of housing market moderation in Sydney in particular," NAB's head of foreign exchange strategy Ray Attrill said.
"But this may be less evident in these quite historical price figures than the more recent CoreLogic data where auction clearance rates have been on a moderating trend since early this year."


Zaun Bhana saw the carnage of Western Australia's mining downturn firsthand.
As clients folded, cut back on spending or sold out, Mr Bhana's IT firm Leap Consulting was forced to adapt.
But in the past 12 months, business has taken off — as more companies seek advice on how to cope with digital disruption.
"Customers are wanting more than just someone to fix their printer or tell them what they should do with cloud," Mr Bhana said.

"We cannot keep up with the amount of customers that are asking us for those [advisory] kind of services."
Founded in 2004, Leap provides IT strategy and support services to small and medium-sized businesses.
In order to meet client demand, five new workers have been added to Leap's payroll in under a year — one-quarter of its entire staff.

That hiring spree was considerably easier for the Subiaco business than it would have been previously, due to the downturn in the resources sector.
"In the boom, we really were challenged with affording just basic engineers," Mr Bhana said.
"[The downturn has] created opportunities to hire people with skills and experience we never would have had access to before, and that's leading to more business for us."
Adam Soudure is one of those recruits who would have been out of the company's reach a few years ago.
A redundancy from an ASX-listed mining services company led him to take up the equivalent position — chief information officer — at Leap.
"With where the market was going, not only in WA but globally in the resources industry … certainly there's more growth in the consulting space at the moment, and for me personally that was the right thing to do," Mr Soudure said.
It is not only the IT sector where a stagnant job market has given way to active recruitment.
For 12 months, WA job advertisements have been on an upward trajectory, driven by higher commodity prices and renewed optimism in the resources sector — with the flow-on effects being felt across the economy.

Exploration geologists, drill and blast specialists and underground engineers are among the most sought-after professionals, along with digital specialists and health workers.
Chris Kent — who heads the WA office of recruitment firm Hays — believes the local job market has finally reached a state of equilibrium.

"There was a lot of 'leaning up', a lot of shedding jobs and managing head count and trying to do everything efficiently and doing more for less," Mr Kent said.
"We've got to that tipping point where essential services — whether it's private sector [or] government — is starting to be affected, and therefore there's some natural job growth."
While online job ads have been climbing steadily for months, Mr Kent said a more recent trend was the decline in the number of views recorded for each advertisement.
That decline may be a lead indicator of a tightening job market, because it suggests there are fewer people competing for each position.
"Wage pressure always comes from skills shortages," Mr Kent said.
"We're thinking that that will start to move the dial a little bit over the next 12 months."
Some industries like construction, continue to lag behind the resources sector.

Residential and commercial building remains slow, after years of strong demand for housing and new office space.
It is hoped projects mooted by the Government may help absorb those blue-collar workers in the years ahead.
"The big growth generators, the big projects like Metronet and things, we're really waiting with bated breath for those to kick off," Mr Kent said.
"The jobs will probably be in the private sector, but it's government-facilitated [growth]."
As WA waits for the sod to be turned on Government projects, it's getting harder to find workers in the state's Goldfields.
Underground drilling company Perseverance, headquartered in Boulder, last month recorded its strongest monthly revenue since it was founded 21 years ago, and managing director Andrew Smith said the current market had all the tell-tale signs of a new boom.

"Since January, we have been employing about two people every month just to try and keep up as the workload increases," Mr Smith said.
"We saw it 12 months ago, we started seeing more work come through and certainly the last six months it's been absolutely flat out."
Drillers and maintenance workers — especially fitters — are in short supply, so the company is investing heavily in training.
"We get either people with underground experience and we train them up in drilling, or we get people with other drilling experience and we train them up underground," Mr Smith said.
"We can't get the people with the skills we need."
This week, ABC Radio Perth, News and Online are investigating How We Work Western Australia with a series of reports on the jobs market and the future of employment. Tomorrow, we look at the impact of workforce casualisation on businesses and employees.


Cruise ships using the Gold Coast's proposed $450 million oceanside terminal could "be pushed to shore" by strong winds and waves, according to a section of an official report which has been withheld from the public.

This warning — and other critical findings — have been blacked out in the publicly released Gold Coast City Council report into the terminal, which cost ratepayers $865,000.
But Four Corners has obtained the unredacted feasibility study, which also questioned whether cruise ship companies and private investors would be prepared to use the Gold Coast terminal.
It reveals cruise ship operators, "raised a number of significant concerns with the proposed design" which includes a jetty that would jut hundreds of metres into the Pacific.
The operators pointed out the facility would be in the open ocean and ships would be exposed to ocean waves.
"The prevailing wind is from south and south east, if a ship encounters problems, it could be pushed (by combination of waves and wind) to shore," the unredacted report said.
"The risk would be the highest as the ship was preparing to dock, as the speed would be reduced and the ship would be beam on to the prevailing wind."

Gold Coast Mayor Tom Tate, who championed the cruise ship terminal project, declined to be interviewed.
But Four Corners approached the Mayor after an event on the Gold Coast and asked if any safety issues had been blacked out in the report.
"Engineering-wise, it's very safe," Councillor Tate said.
"The best thing is that it'll create further jobs for the next generation. If at the end of it, if it doesn't tick all the safety box or the environment box, I'll be the first to vote it down, OK?"
A plan submitted to the Federal Environment Department included provision for up to 150 cruise ships to visit the terminal every year.
The terminal would sit on about six hectares of public land on The Spit.

One of the Gold Coast's most prominent developers, Norm Rix, slammed the proposal as one of the Mayor's "ambitious plans".
"It butts onto the oceans itself, and if you're looking for a tourist attraction, well that would be the first cyclone that comes along and washes the cruise ship onto the middle of Main Beach," he said.
A number of Gold Coast councillors have also come out against the project.
"I actually don't think it's viable or reasonable or feasible to build a 700-metre jetty out into the open ocean," Councillor Glenn Tozer said.

"I think it's almost a ridiculous proposal," Councillor Peter Young said.
"It's a mighty big ocean and it has very powerful waves. There's very many days in any year when they just will not be able to get a ship into this city."
Councillor Young said it was unfair the public had not seen the unredacted report.
"I think the public should have the capacity to fully evaluate the information that's been provided. After all, the public paid for the report."
The unredacted report obtained by Four Corners also questioned whether the cruise ship terminal was viable.
"It is unlikely that cruise companies are prepared to sign up to long-term agreements to guarantee usage of the facility or that there would be sufficient desire for private investors to take patronage risk on this large-scale infrastructure," it warned.

The study also said massive infrastructure, such as fuel, water, waste water disposal and food provisioning would be needed onshore for the terminal to work as a base port for Australian cruise lines.
It pointed out ships may need more than, "1,000 tonnes of fuel per visit to be taken on board".
On the environmental front, the unredacted feasibility study warned there was a medium risk the terminal's breakwater would have an adverse impact on coastal processes or wave climate at the beach.
Champion surfer Mick Fanning this year labelled the cruise ship terminal plan an "eyesore", warning it would destroy one of the Gold Coast's most amazing beaches.


Aid groups are scrambling to control the spread of diseases among Rohingya refugees in Bangladeshi border camps, with a massive immunisation program underway to treat 150,000 children.

UNICEF Australia is just one of many non-government organisations that has sent a team to see firsthand the situation facing the 400,000 Rohingya Muslims who have fled to Bangladesh from violence in western Myanmar.
UNICEF Australia's Oliver White is in one of the those camps and says a massive immunisation program is underway to help prevent diseases spreading.
"It is unprecedented. What has struck us most is the huge number of children, women and the elderly," Mr White said.
"Those three groups make up 80 to 90 per cent of all those displaced in Bangladesh."

Mr White said disease was one area UNICEF, along with the Bangladesh Department of Health, was trying to get on top of.
A vaccination campaign against measles, rubella and polio is underway this week to immunise 150,000 Rohingya children below the age of 15.
"We are working with the Government of Bangladesh, the World Health Organisation and others to stop diseases spreading in such unsanitary conditions," Mr White said.
He said it was critical the international community stepped up its efforts to help the refugees.
"[Bangladesh is] doing its very best, it's working with UN agencies, but the needs are just so huge and that is why we are appealing to the Australian community and the Australian Government to give generously," Mr White said.

Mr White said many children had either been separated from their families or their parents had been killed in the violence in Myanmar.
"There is over 1,200 unaccompanied children literally standing by the side of the road. They are incredibly vulnerable. Young girls at risk of forced marriage and trafficking," he said.
Mr White said child-friendly spaces were being created.
"Most importantly they need a safe place to sleep, so we are setting up areas they can come to and be with other children to play."
Mr White called on the international community, including Australia to step up its efforts.
"Many of these children who have fled conflict and persecution and have arrived in Bangladesh seeking safety will die from malnutrition, sickness and disease."
The Australian Government has donated $5 million to help the Rohingya refugees, with $4 million going to Bangladesh and the remaining money to the Red Cross inside Myanmar.



The poor audio quality, the bad grammar, the mispronunciations — one of the latest scams doing the rounds in Australia is so bad it's almost laughable.
This past week, a Queensland woman found a voice message on her home answering machine, with a female robotic voice telling the resident she was from the Australian Tax Office (ATO).
"We have received an affidavit against your name where you are being listed as a primary suspect, and your house is under surveillance [pronounced sur-vur-lance]," the recording said.
There were a number of clues, including the "affidavit against your name", suggesting this one was a scam.
A quick internet search shows many saw right through it:
"Recorded mess from tax dept, house under surveillance, affidavit logged bla bla bla another scam" — Glen
Someone else said they called the number back.
"[He] gave his name as Hoffman and said he was from the Tax Fraud Dept. He wanted my name and the mobile number on which I received the call. When I refused to give personal details without knowing the reason for the call he told me to 'get lost' and hung up" — Lynne
ATO assistant tax commissioner Kath Anderson said there were some obvious signs when it came to identifying scams.
"The main thing is we don't threaten people. We don't send the police around, we don't threaten prosecution," she said.
"The ATO has a scamline — 1800 008 540. That's where you can call the ATO and talk to them about the call received.
"We'll let you know if it's genuine, and if it is we'll put you in contact with the right person in [the] ATO."
Ms Anderson said phone scams were the most common.
"The scams really take off from the start of July. We see them right through to the end of tax time at the end of October," she said.
"It's because a lot of people are interacting with the tax office in their once-a-year interaction, and the scammers know that."
Stay up to date with recent scams through the ACCC's Scamwatch and Fair Trading's Scams page.



Federal Labor is demanding an independent inquiry into whether Employment Minister Michaelia Cash breached ministerial standards and tried to keep allegations against the former head of the construction watchdog quiet from Cabinet.

Nigel Hadgkiss resigned as commissioner of the Australian Building and Construction Commission (ABCC) last week, after admitting he broke Fair Work Act laws between January 2014 and July 2016.
In the Federal Court, Mr Hadgkiss admitted he knew about material distributed by the precursor to the ABCC, the Fair Work Building and Construction Commission (FWBC), that suggested employers could make reasonable requests to stop union officials holding meetings in workplaces.
Under changes to the laws, the employer no longer had that right and unions could meet workers in meal rooms for talks if needed.
Mr Hadgkiss was the head of the FWBC at the time.
Last week, Senator Cash told Parliament she had been made aware of the allegations In October 2016 — but Mr Hadgkiss was appointed commissioner of the ABCC in December 2016.
Shadow employment minister Brendan O'Connor argued the resignation of Mr Hadgkiss should not mean the search for accountability ends.
"Of course the Government doesn't have a loyalty gene, of course they were going to immediately throw Mr Hadgkiss under the bus," Mr O'Connor told ABC RN.
"But this is about whether in fact the Minister should have reported this matter, disclosed this matter to Cabinet."
The allegations by the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU), prompted Senator Cash to defend her handling of the matter.
She said it would be wrong for the Government to stand down a government official every time the CFMEU made an accusation against them — suggesting the union had a reputation for being litigious.
"The litigation that is referred to was public knowledge, so that's the first point," Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull told reporters.
"Secondly, it obviously had to take its course.
"Thirdly, Mr Hadgkiss became the ABCC commissioner by virtue of an act of Parliament, because he was already the commissioner of the Fair Work Building Commission, which then became transformed into the Australian Building and Construction Commission, and given obviously stronger powers and the ability to levy greater fines."
But Mr O'Connor argued that legislation would have had to be signed off by Cabinet, which was either not told about the allegations by Senator Cash or ignored them.
"If Cabinet made a decision about the transitional provisions without being provided information about the allegations against Mr Hadgkiss, yes, then I believe there is a ministerial breach here," Mr O'Connor said.
"We've asked the Prime Minister to examine this independently and come back with the answers."


Working helps us pay the bills, buy food, pay the mortgage and live as comfortably as we can.
But how we work though has changed significantly in the past 20 years.
While there are more jobs available, for the first time in many years full-time work has fallen while there has been a spike in part-time or casual jobs.

"Part-time jobs have been growing and we're now around two-fifths of jobs are part-time jobs, and three-fifths are full-time jobs," Patrick Fensham, urban planner with SGS Economics and Planning, said.
"There's uneven growth in terms of full-time jobs, there is more casualisation, people are not being able to access the more certain and full-time employment they're seeking, and we're seeing the manifestation of that in terms of stresses around household income."
According to data from SGS, there were 2.6 million jobs in greater Sydney in 2016 — 1.9 million were full-time and about 750,000 were part-time or casual.
In the past 10 years employment in Sydney has grown by 800,000 jobs, with most of that growth occurring in western Sydney.
The industries employing the most people are professional, scientific and technical services, followed by health care and social assistance.

According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, a growing number of people are juggling multiple jobs to meet the pressures of Sydney's living costs and housing unaffordability.
And for those that may need to work part-time for family reasons, Mr Fensham estimates that up to half of those people would like to work more.
"People would like to have more income to pay their bills and that's an increasing problem for our cities and our country, and there is effective underemployment and people are unable to get the work scope they'd like to," he said.
The hardest hit in our community in terms of job security are young people, according to Professor Phillip O'Neill, director of the Centre for Western Sydney at Western Sydney University.
"Since the global financial crisis there has been virtually no recovery in young persons' full-time employment whatsoever," he said.
"If you're a young kid in Sydney and you don't have any post-school qualifications, you're obliged to take a part-time or casual job or not work at all.
"The full-time labour market for an unskilled worker has disappeared in the Sydney labour market."
For 20-year-old Tyler, working in the construction industry is only temporary work until he can find something else.
"I work to live basically, and for my indulgences," he said.
"I love my job but it's not what I really want to do."

Michelle from Penrith told ABC Radio Sydney that casualisation of the workplace did not just affect younger generations, but also discriminated against older workers.
The 43-year-old has been looking for casual retail work as she and her husband are unemployed and receive support from Centrelink.
"Young people are getting all the casual and retail jobs because they are cheaper to pay," Michelle said.
"When I worked in retail in the past, the younger people got all the shifts and I only got work if they didn't turn up.
"It's very difficult. The work that is out there and hours that are out there is the same as what I'm getting from Centrelink, so there's no point getting a job for only 10 hours a week ... sometimes I think it's not worth it."
Professor O'Neill said that in an increasing culture of part-time and casual employment, workers were likely to be monitored more closely, be given fixed-term contracts and be more vulnerable to redundancy.
According to Professor O'Neill, the population in Western Sydney is predicted to grow up to 2.9 or three million by 2036.

He said the key for job security in Sydney was to focus on supporting that growing population with better infrastructure and employment hubs like the one established in Parramatta.
"At current job creation rates, we will barely supply two-thirds of those resident workers with jobs in western Sydney," he said.
"In 20 years' time, we're faced with a huge problem of moving probably close to half a million workers every day out of western Sydney and half a million to return in the afternoon unless we create giant jobs concentration in western Sydney to deal with that problem.
"In order to meet the demand in the growth of resident workers in western Sydney, the equation is this: Western Sydney needs the equivalent of one Barangaroo worth of jobs, that's 25,000 net additional jobs every 18 months."
ABC Radio Sydney is investigating Working Sydney in a week-long focus exploring how we work now and how we'll work in the future.


Lady Mary Fairfax has died peacefully at her family home in Sydney, aged 95.
In a statement, Lady Mary's family said she died on Sunday night following a recent significant deterioration in her health.
Members of the Fairfax family, one of Australia's great media dynasties, have gathered at Fairwater — Lady Mary's harbourfront estate in Double Bay.
Born Maire Wein in Warsaw, Poland, she was the third wife and widow of Sir Warwick Oswald Fairfax.
With Sir Warwick she had three children, Warwick Fairfax, known as young Warwick, Anna Cleary and Charles Fairfax.

She also had a son, Garth Symonds, from her first marriage to solicitor Cedric Symonds.
"This is a deeply distressing time for the family," the statement said.
"Funeral details will be announced in due course. We have no further comment at this time."
Lady Mary was made an Officer of Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 1976, a Member of the Order of Australia (AM) in 1988 and appointed a Companion of the Order of Australia (AC) in 2005.
She has been acknowledged for her philanthropy, including gifts to St Vincent's Foundation and Garvan Foundation, and her roles with the Australian Ballet and Australian Opera Foundation.

Veteran Sydney journalist David Leser paid tribute to Lady Fairfax.
"She was just an extraordinary character," he said.
"She'd had a love affair in the 1950s that scandalised Sydney society, she had this harrowing divorce trial and a celebrated remarriage to Sir Warwick Fairfax. And she found herself at the centre of an Australian media empire.
"And then of course 30 years later she was blamed for the ruin of that empire.
"She was a figure of great romance in Australian business media circles and for some she was also a figure of vengeance. Some people regarded her as the Lady Macbeth of the Australian media landscape."
"I could never work out whether she was just monstrously misunderstood or whether she was as deceptive as she was clever."
In 1987, "Young Warwick", then aged 26, controversially bought out his family's holdings in publicly-listed newspaper company John Fairfax and Sons by borrowing heavily. However, by December 1990 the privatised company had collapsed and a receiver was appointed.
"That takeover bid by 'Young Warwick' — probably partly at the behest of his mother — absolutely decimated the Fairfax company and it was the beginning of decades of mismanagement and Fairfax is still trying to struggle with that today," Leser said.
"Lady Mary Fairfax had a multitude within and she was a very, very complex character."
He described her as a "tireless worker for the arts and charities" and "a generous, fun-loving hostess and friend".
"I don't know whether she was a family maker or empire breaker but she was just this larger than life matriarchal figure."
Lady Mary was known for her philanthropy, most notably supporting the Australian opera scene as well as medical research.

Opera Australia artistic director Lyndon Terracini said young singers benefited greatly from Lady Mary's support.
"Mary Fairfax made a tremendous contribution to opera in Australia generally, not just to Opera Australia," he
"Her support for young singers was exemplary and really she was one of the first genuine benefactors in Australia to contribute in a substantial way and an ongoing way.
"She raised money from other people as well as donating herself to the development of young singers so that in those days they could go abroad and study."
St Vincent's Hospital spokesman David Faktor said Lady Mary leaves a notable legacy at the hospital with her donations to projects and research.
"She took a keen personal interest in all our endeavours including those of the Garvin Medical Research Institute," he said.
"She was particularly interested in hearing and she supported our ENT units at St Vincent's."


Australian media mogul Bruce Gordon has failed in his last-ditch attempt to torpedo Channel Ten's takeover by US media giant CBS.

He had taken action in the NSW Supreme Court against Ten's administrators KordaMentha, arguing that his joint-bid (with Lachlan Murdoch) to buy the network had not been properly considered and a competing bid from CBS treated more favourably.
Mr Gordon, who owns the regional WIN Network, was seeking orders for the second creditors' meeting to be restrained.
But the court this morning ruled the meeting can proceed as planned on Tuesday — and it's expected that creditors will vote on CBS's takeover bid.
"It will be a matter for creditors at that meeting to determine whether [it] should be adjourned by reason of ... any recent commercial developments, or for any other reason," Justice Ashley Black said in his judgment.
By "recent commercial developments", the judge was referring to a revised Gordon-Murdoch offer submitted last Friday, after the Senate voted to pass media law reforms.
Mr Gordon's lawyers had argued the KordaMentha's creditors' report was deficient, namely because it only presented information about the CBS takeover bid, and not the joint bid from himself and Mr Murdoch.
He also sought court orders for CBS to be prevented from voting on its own bid for Ten at Tuesday's creditors' meeting.
However, Justice Black was not satisfied there were any deficiencies in the report.
The judge also ruled that CBS would not be prevented from voting on its own bid for Ten at Tuesday's meeting, or that its vote be restricted to the small nominal amount of $1.00.
Ten's troubles began in early June, when Mr Gordon's and Mr Murdoch's private companies, Birketu and Illyria, decided not to continue being the guarantors for the network.

The struggling network was then placed in voluntary administration on June 14 on the basis that it was "insolvent or likely to become insolvent".
Bidders for the Ten Network were invited to submit their final binding proposals by August 24.
However, Mr Gordon and Mr Murdoch submitted theirs one day after that deadline.
In any event, the administrators preferred CBS's bid over the Gordon-Murdoch proposal, and subsequently entered into an exclusivity agreement with the US media giant.
Mr Gordon attempted to torpedo CBS's bid by seeking urgent court orders to delay the second creditors' meeting, originally scheduled for September 12.
He was successful in that regard as the court granted that order, thereby delaying it to Tuesday.
The defendants in that case were Ten's administrators, and CBS. Mr Murdoch's Twenty-First Century Fox intervened, but was not formally a party to the proceedings.
At last week's hearing, Mr Gordon's lawyer argued that the second creditors' report was "deficient".
In particular, his lawyers argued that "any administrator acting in the best interests of creditors would inquire whether a competing bid would remain open after the time for its expiry".
Justice Black rejected that argument in no uncertain terms.
Mr Gordon was on Monday ordered to pay the other parties' legal costs.


The nation's biggest superannuation fund has moved to ensure under-25s no longer have insurance premiums taken from their retirement accounts unless they ask for it to happen.
Australian Super is the first major super fund to make insurance an "opt-in" for younger workers rather than an automatic inclusion, potentially saving them thousands of dollars over the life of an account.
The decision follows an inquiry by the Insurance Superannuation Working Group earlier this year, which showed that an overload of unnecessary insurance within superannuation risks a "rapid erosion" of some retirement nest eggs.
Australian Super's group executive for membership, Rose Kerlin, said the decision to allow under-25s to "opt-in" came after concerns that default insurance premiums are sometimes working against the long term interests of young workers.
"Australian Super has made this decision in the best interest of our members," she said.
"People under 25 starting out in the workforce need to begin building a base for their retirement savings.
"Given that they are often on relatively low incomes, the fund does not want to see undue account erosion because of insurance that may actually be of very limited value to them."
Australian Super — which manages $120 billion of retirement funds — has crunched the numbers and estimates that the exclusion of insurance premiums before turning 25 would save members an average of $9,000.

Ms Kerlin says the insurance component is mainly of benefit for people with dependents and financial commitments, such as a mortgage, who might be exposed to death or permanent disability.
Automatic insurance would apply to members over the age of 25, who would still be able to opt out if they wish.
"We want to stress that members under 25 will still be able to choose to have insurance if they want it," Ms Kerlin said.
However, questions remain as to the usefulness of many insurance policies in superannuation funds, including for older workers.
An investigation by ABC TV's The Business earlier this year revealed that many casual workers are unable to claim on the policies they are paying for, while many policies do not cover everything that many people would expect them to.

Insurance industry veteran Jim Minto, who chairs the Insurance in Superannuation Working Group, welcomed the initiative by Australian Super to end default insurance payments for members aged under 25.
"The industry is united in bringing forward to address a series of issues including some people have too many insurance accounts," Mr Minto told the ABC.
"I think all these moves that help benefit members and consumers are to be welcomed."
The working group is scheduled to release its draft code of conduct for superannuation funds later this week.
Pressure for greater disclosure on insurance within superannuation comes as the Federal Government cracks down on the sector to ensure rogue employers pay the correct contributions and moves to shake up the governance of super fund trustees.
Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter @peter_f_ryan and on his Main Street blog.


Syrian Nadeem Turkia always knew he was going to work in hospitality — he just never imagined it would be in a food truck in Darwin.
After topping his class in his hospitality degree, he was about to leave Jordan for a coveted scholarship in the United States when being Syrian became an obstacle.
"The head of my university told me, 'they didn't accept you because you are Syrian. There is nothing we can do.' That was the moment my dreams stopped," he said.
Mr Turkia was born in Jordan, his mother's country, and lived there for most of his life.
But when the Jordanian Government changed its policy on Syrian nationals having rights to work and residency as it became inundated with hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing war, Mr Turkia became an illegal immigrant in his own country.
"It was like you were in a big jail," he said.
"You couldn't work, you couldn't do anything, because they would send you back to hell, to Syria."

In Jordan, citizenship is conferred through the paternal line, and children are not automatically eligible to be citizens just because their mother is a citizen.
Mr Turkia's mother Taghreed said watching her husband and three sons lose their rights to citizenship filled her with anger and sadness, and frustration at the patriarchal system.
"I thought, 'why am I not Jordanian … what am I? If a man married a woman from another country, in three years she would become Jordanian, but I had no rights," she said.
The family of seven arrived in Darwin almost a year ago after being accepted as part of Australia's Syrian refugee commitment intake.
Before war broke out, the Orthodox Christian family spent the holidays in their Syrian home, Wadi al Nasara, or Valley of the Christians, a village on the outskirts of the northern city of Homs.
Mr Turkia describes it as paradise; a picturesque mountain village where food was plentiful and five minority groups lived together in peace.
It is a vision of Syria that he is keen to share with Australians who, he said, associate his homeland with war and conflict.
And to do it he has adopted the age-old Middle Eastern tradition of giving away falafel to anyone who walks by the window of his Darwin-based food truck, Flavours of Damascus (formerly Damascus Kitchen).
The truck moves around different suburbs and markets in Darwin during the week.

"When they taste it they start asking us where the food came from, and then we start talking to them about our culture and all the good things about Syria that they don't know about," Mr Turkia said.
"In our food you will taste our culture, you will taste all the spices that have thousands of years of history."
His family planned to use their culinary skills to bridge the cultural divide even before they set foot in Australia.
"When we heard Australia would take us, we wanted to say thank you for accepting us as part of your country," Mr Turkia said.
"This is the way I can say thank you."



Going off-grid could be the way forward for communities on the fringes of WA's power network after a trial of solar units exceeded the expectations of those involved.
Fed up with frequent outages and voltage spikes, six farming households in Ravensthorpe, 500 kilometres south of Perth, chose to take a leap of faith and try living off the sun and lithium batteries.
"It has been just fantastic, it's far exceeded our expectations, and it's very good, clean power," Ravensthorpe resident Ros Giles said.
"Friends are often out [without power] for up to 24 hours and thinking, 'we might come visit because you've got power and we haven't'," she said.
WA's energy utility Western Power offered the systems for free in the search for alternatives to the massive cost of replacing ageing poles and wires.
The utility builds and maintains transmission lines in remote areas, but landowners wear the cost of the lines on their properties.

The Giles family spent tens of thousands of dollars connecting their farm in the 1980s.
When the region experienced major flooding in January, receiving 310 millimetres of rain in four days, the solar units kept the lights on while many grid-connected customers lost power for days.
"It's good, clean, reliable power and that's the big advantage," Bernie Giles said.
"Cleaner meaning frequency and voltage consistencies ... and that means less damage to things ... like electric fence units with voltage spikes and fluctuations.
"We haven't come across anything we can't do that we could before as far as welding and using large amounts of power or starting electric motors, not a problem."

The trial's success has wide-ranging implications for the future of power generation in the country, bringing with it huge savings for taxpayers.
Ravensthorpe is a microcosm for the nation's power problems, one of thousands of tiny communities at the edge of the electricity grid.

For example, WA's South West network spans more than 250,000 square kilometres — an area the size of the United Kingdom  — yet it only services one 50th of the population.
Getting power to those communities is costly, unreliable and unsustainable, prompting utilities to look for alternatives.

"There's the potential for 3,000 sites that have similar types of reliability on those edge of grid type communities that we could put that similar technology in," Western Power CEO Guy Chalkley said.
Everyone within the grid pays the same energy tariff, meaning people in Perth subsidise the cost of supplying power to the bush.
It is a problem Western Power believes the Ravensthorpe trial has solved, potentially allowing it to save hundreds of millions of dollars.
"You'd be talking about a saving of about $300 million in terms of current cost of investment and cost of ongoing maintenance of distribution line against the cost of the stand-alone power system," Mr Chalkley said.
But the utility has hit a roadblock.
Legislation written before the technology existed only allows Western Power to distribute energy through poles and wires and not generate it  — which is how regulators view capturing solar rays for battery storage.

This has meant the utility has had to extend the trial for a further three years to allow the households to keep their systems.
Consultants are warning the government against dragging its feet.
"I think the regulations need to catch up, the fact technology has moved on and that the opportunity to provide a better outcome for consumers is being facilitated by that technology," energy consultant David Martin said.
"If it makes sense to put in a stand-alone power system, put it in, but let's not waste time rebuilding networks we don't need."
Energy Minister Ben Wyatt said while he was supportive of Western Power's efforts, he needed to consider if it was appropriate for the utility to enter the power generation market.
The utility would require both legislative and regulatory changes to roll out the systems more broadly.
It seems the families of Ravensthorpe could be waiting a while longer before they officially cut their ties to the grid.


Like gluten, sugar and lactose, nitrates appear to be next on the list of foods some Australians have decided to cut out of their diets.
Butchers and supermarkets are increasingly selling nitrate-free bacon, which is often twice the price of bacon that's been cured using sodium nitrate.
Butcher Blair Parsons said customers started asking for nitrate-free bacon about four years ago, prompting him to experiment with alternative preservatives and curing agents.
After some trial and error, Mr Parsons started using a cure of salt, sugar, water and sodium ascorbate which, as a food additive, has the code E301.
His shop in Bunbury, in the south-west of Western Australia, sells about 40 to 50 kilograms of nitrate-free bacon a week and he said demand continued to grow.

Some people do not like the salty taste left on the meat by sodium nitrate, while others say they believe their bodies react badly when they eat bacon cured with nitrates.
But most cite heath concerns as their primary reason for avoiding sodium nitrate, and point to studies that suggest the body converts nitrates to produce potentially carcinogenic compounds when digested.

Accredited practising dietician Jacklyn Jackson said the idea that nitrate-cured bacon was bad came from the fact that increased intake of processed meats led to an increased risk of some cancers.

"What a lot of people don't realise is that vegetables are the major contributor to our dietary nitrate exposure and can account for approximately 40 to 80 per cent of nitrates we consume, while processed meats generally only account for less than 10 per cent," she said.
Ms Jackson said dieticians could not say for sure what happened to nitrates in the body because each person's reaction was dependant on the presence of other bacteria, the level of oxygen in the blood, as well as other nutrition factors like antioxidants, fat and alcohol.
"In the stomach, nitrate is converted to nitric oxide and a range of other nitrogen-containing compounds," she said.
"Nitric oxide is an extremely beneficial molecule for cardiovascular health and has a role in regulating blood pressure and the function and structure of the blood vessels.
"Nitrates might actually be good for you."
The bi-national government agency Food Standards Australia and New Zealand says "consumers should be reassured that exposures to nitrates and nitrites in foods are not considered to represent an appreciable health and safety risk".

Ms Jackson said people should not worry about eating bacon cured using sodium nitrate, as long as they watched how much, and how regularly, they ate processed meat.
"As a general rule, the Australian Dietary Guidelines recommend people limit their consumption of processed meats like bacon, ham and sausages, regardless of how they have been marketed to us, as they have been shown to increase our risk of colorectal cancer," she said.
"If you're limiting your intake of processed meat to once a week, you'll be alright."


Superannuation funds could be drained by as much as $100 billion as companies slash wages and force workers out of long-standing enterprise agreements to deliver better returns for shareholders, a union-commissioned report has found.

The study cites wages theft, wage freezes, reduced penalty rates and cancelled workplace deals as factors diluting the overall superannuation pool, which could ultimately mean smaller retirement nest eggs for some Australian workers.
Companies singled out include Qantas, where thousands of jobs were lost in a restructure, and aviation services provider Aerocare, which has been accused of recruiting workers on below award conditions.
Aerocare provides safety checks and ground handling services to airlines such as Qantas, Jetstar, Singapore Airlines and Virgin.
Last month, the Fair Work Commission rejected Aerocare's enterprise agreement as unfair and unsatisfactory for its workers.
Streets Ice Cream, Griffin Coal, Aurizon and Murdoch University have also been named for suppressing wages through the cancellation of enterprise agreements, according to the Centre for Future Work at the Australia Institute.
The study was commissioned by the Transport Workers Union (TWU), which has been locked in a long-running battle with Qantas and its outsourcing partner Aerocare over worker pay and conditions.
TWU national secretary Tony Sheldon said around 3 million people — or a quarter of the workforce — would see their retirement savings weakened through wage suppression because of lower superannuation payments compounded over time.
Mr Sheldon told the ABC's AM program superannuation funds and the Government's Future Fund needed to urgently review companies they invested in to determine whether they were engaged in suppressing wages.
"This is a race to the bottom on lower wages and conditions and is ultimately harming the retirement incomes of the very people they are supposed to support," Mr Sheldon said.
"If a company is boasting of a sharply lower wage bill, super fund directors need to see it as a red flag, not a green light."

A Qantas spokesperson defended the company's decision to temporarily freeze wages, adding that it had implemented initiatives to "help close the deficit in women's retirement balances".
"Wage freezes of 18 months at Qantas were needed to make our cost base more competitive compared with the rest of the industry and ultimately make 30,000 jobs more sustainable," the spokesperson said.
"Once we returned to profit, employees were offered a 5 per cent bonus in recognition of the wage freeze plus two more profit-related bonuses worth $5,000 including superannuation.
"Last year, Qantas added a further two weeks superannuation to its three month maternity leave provisions, paid directly into super by default."
A spokesperson for Aerocare denied it was recruiting workers on below award conditions.
"Aerocare operates under a valid Enterprise Agreement, that pays more than the industry wide award. This has been confirmed by the Fair Work Commission," the spokesperson said.
"Workers' superannuation entitlements are paid in full."
The report comes days after Qantas chief executive Alan Joyce received long-term incentive payments, taking his 2017 pay deal to $24.6 million for successfully restructuring the airline.
According to the report, wage suppression created a $37 billion black hole in Federal Government revenue through lost taxes on superannuation contributions and the outlook for higher-aged pension payouts.
It found that in cases where enterprise agreements were cancelled and workers were forced on to the minimum award, individual retirees could lose as much as $270,000.
The report also cited wage theft scandals at Dominos, 7-Eleven and Caltex, and said where workers were illegally underpaid, retirement savings could be slashed by more than $50,000.

It said where employers imposed a temporary wage freeze, retirement nest eggs could be reduced by $30,000 over an individuals' retirement period.
Mr Sheldon urged the Government to ensure superannuation funds acted in the best interests of their members by not investing in companies that suppressed wages.
"The Federal Government is standing by and allowing this to happen, even supporting companies which rip their workers off," Mr Sheldon said.
The report referenced research from Macquarie Bank that showed employee-friendly companies outperformed hostile employers by 6.6 per cent annually.
Concerns about wage suppression and wage theft came as Australian workers experienced the slowest wages growth in recent decades of less than 2 per cent.
Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter @peter_f_ryan and on his Main Street blog.


A shortage of aviation fuel has caused dozens of flight cancellations at New Zealand's Auckland Airport, with airlines advised to carry enough fuel for return flights after a digger apparently damaged an oil pipeline while trying to extract kauri logs.

About 27 domestic and international flights have been cancelled so far this weekend, a statement on Auckland Airport's website said.
The statement said fuel companies were rationing the amount of oil they supplied airlines because a leaking Auckland supply pipeline was being repaired at Marsden Point.
All supplies of aviation fuel to Auckland Airport were cut after a digger trying to extract kauri tree logs cut the oil pipeline on Thursday, according to a report from New Zealand Herald.
It could take between 10 and 14 days to restore the fuel supply.
The company told Auckland Airport it was working on repairing a section of its damaged fuel pipeline which connects the refinery to Wiri Oil Services Limited in Auckland — which supplies airlines with aviation fuel at the airport.
"Airlines operating at Auckland Airport have had their usual fuel allocations reduced," Mobil Oil New Zealand Limited spokesman Andrew McNaught said.
"We appreciate this will be inconvenient and will require airlines to take alternative fuelling measures."
Mr McNaught said airlines would have to carry more fuel to enable return flights without refuelling and stop to fuel at other airports on the way to and from Auckland.
Auckland Airport is New Zealand's largest international airport and handles more than 18.5 million passengers a year.
Chief executive Adrian Littlewood said the airport was working with airlines to monitor the impact of the disruption, with a focus on assisting passengers.
"We will have additional staff in the terminals supporting passengers and addressing any questions or concerns they may have," he said.
"We strongly recommend that any passengers travelling over the coming days plan ahead and check with their airline for the latest information."
Marsden Point owner Refining NZ spokesman Greg McNeill told the New Zealand Herald the issue began on Thursday, when a leak was spotted in the pipeline that supplies aviation fuel from Marsden Point to Wiri, near the airport.
Mr McNeill said the pipeline was cut by external damage, but did not confirm if it was caused by a digger was trying to lift a kauri log.
Prime Minister Bill English told reporters he had instructed ministers to work closely with the companies and offer Government assistance.
ABC/


Putting to one side all sorts of worrying messages about risk, Wall Street ploughed on to a record close on Friday and raised the prospects of a solid start to the week for the ASX as well.

The S&P500 hit 2500 points for the first time, the Dow also closed at a new high and the Nasdaq was no laggard either, reaching a record mid-session before a bit of post-prandial profit-taking.
Despite weakness in Europe, the key global index the MSCI — which tracks about 2,400 stocks in 47 countries — ended the week at a new high as well.
All this, despite protagonists on either sides of Korea's Demilitarised Zone sending some test missiles skywards, the hurricane season rolling on and a pretty disappointing effort by US consumers in August.
It was all just sound and fury, meaning nothing for the markets.
The Federal Reserve's meeting this week is entirely a different matter.

It will not be a shock if the Fed announces its plans to wind back the $US4.5 trillion worth of assets it has amassed on its balance sheet — up from the less than $US1 trillion before the global financial crisis got cracking a decade ago.
Anxious to avoid the "taper tantrum" of 2013, the Fed has widely telegraphed the move.
Hopefully the market should not be too jittery, but trying to second guess the mass psyche of traders, which is in turn multiplied by algorithmic bots, is a mugs game.
The betting is the Fed will announce it will start reducing its holdings — in effect tapering its reinvestment in Treasury notes and mortgage-backed securities (MBS) — next month.
This should allow the Fed to put tapering on autopilot without being distracted by the recent trend "choppy data" flowing through.
It should also give it time to assess the market's mood — among other things — before deciding whether to raise rates again in December.
A decision to hike again at this meeting, while announcing the start of tapering, is probably too much for markets to digest at one time.

The Fed's musing about tapering in 2013 didn't go well. It was all just fear. Nothing happened, then the Fed backed away and basically kicked the can down the road to this week.

Certainly, long-term interest rates will rise and one of the worries is the US economy's recovery will be stifled as credit becomes tighter.
A softer US dollar will likely weaken further. That's probably not great news for the Australian dollar which has pushed through 80 US cents.
The $US1.8 trillion MBS the Fed holds naturally amortise at 1 per cent a month, so they should roll off under a $US20 billion monthly cap the Fed has set.
The $US2.5 trillion in Treasury notes should also decline at somewhere around 10 per cent a year as well. So it is a drawn out process.
The problem is the Fed has a massive position in the market and, as Macquarie Bank recently pointed out, about $US400 trillion of other assets around the world are linked to the big four central banks' bloated balance sheets.
The unknown is to what extent markets have become addicted to the easy money. Withdrawal symptoms can be very, very ugly.
The Fed's balance sheet is unlikely to shrink back to pre-GFC levels, because just as its assets swelled, so did its liabilities.
The money printing, the hoovering up toxic debt from the sub-prime lending binge as well as long-tailed government debt means much bigger balance sheets are the new normal for central banks.
Just as an aside, the Fed as the biggest dealer on street has made somewhere well north of $250 billion from its MBS portfolio.
That has in turn been handed back as a nice little earner for the ultimate supplier in the trade — the cash-strapped US Federal Treasury.
Nothing has gone that smoothly in the central banking world since the GFC. There is little reason to believe the taper will be the exception to that rule.
Assuming the taper announcement is not too far off expectations and one of the missile tests is not a fail on a disastrous scale, it is shaping up to be a quiet week.
Data and the calendar here and overseas is all very ho-hum.
One interesting item maybe the OPEC meeting in Vienna on Wednesday assessing how the self-imposed 1.8 million a barrel a day cut in oil production is going.
Compliance had edged up above 100 per cent, while global inventories slipped.
At the same time, demand forecasts supplied by the International Energy Agency have been edged up.
With oil prices holding above $US50 a barrel, OPEC will probably be pretty pleased with things so far.


Budget airline Ryanair is cancelling 40 to 50 flights every day for the next six weeks in a bid to improve its punctuality, but many passengers have been left stranded after being given "no notice" about the cancellations.

The Irish-based airline said strikes in Europe, air traffic control issues and bad weather had caused its punctuality level to drop to "unacceptable" levels, and that it also had a backlog of staff leave to clear by the end of the year.
"Ryanair's on-time performance has declined from 90 per cent to under 80 per cent over the past two weeks, a figure that is unacceptable to Ryanair and its customers," the airline said in a statement.
The cancellations could affect up to 400,000 passengers, who will be offered alternative flights or refunds.
The airline cancelled 80 flights on Saturday and 82 on Sunday, leaving many passengers stranded when they were told via text message that their flights had been scrapped.
"We got no notice and have to stay an extra three days in Rome with no help or support from Ryanair," one Twitter user said.
"We're out 400 euro ($600) already and we still have to get to Monday before the next available flight. It's madness. I'll never fly Ryanair again."
Another Twitter user said they found out their flight was cancelled by checking the website on the morning of their flight.
"We're due to fly at 10:00am and still haven't received an email and it's on the website the flight is cancelled! Never fly with them again," the user wrote at 7:00am.
Ryanair published the weekend's cancellations online but has not publicly confirmed which other flights will be axed over the next six weeks, causing angst for many customers who have booked travel with the airline.
The airline told customers flights would operate as scheduled, unless passengers received a cancellation email.
"Release a list of flights with more than 24 hours' notice please, so people can actually arrange alternative ways to travel," one Twitter user said.
"Publishing the cancelled flights for the next two days… why not publish them all? Shambles of a company," said another.
Ryanair said it apologises "sincerely to the small number of customers affected by these cancellations" and would work to organise alternative flights and/or full refunds.
"Cancellation notices for flights cancelled up to and including Wednesday September 20 have been sent to affected customers and we will continue to send regular updates and post flight information on our website," the airline said on Facebook.
"We have messed up in the planning of pilot holidays and we're working hard to fix that."
The airline said that less than 2 per cent of its flights would be cancelled.



As Papua New Guinea celebrates the 42nd anniversary of its independence from Australia, there are concerns the country's cultural products are being appropriated by overseas companies.
Women who sew the traditional "meri blouse", a type of dress introduced by missionaries, fear their industry is being undermined by cheap Asian imports.
They want rules to ensure cultural items can only be made in Papua New Guinea so they can keep earning an income.

"Those of us who worked in the market before used to make good money because there was not much competition," she said.
"Now there's lots of competition from other provinces and China — and this is why we don't make good money."

The meri blouse is normally worn to church, but the garment is also very popular for special occasions.
Ms Robert is proud of the ones she makes in the colours of PNG's national flag.
"We stitch it in black, white, yellow — and we print the bird of PNG and the star on it so that people will like it," she said.

The streets of PNG's towns and cities fill with vendors selling PNG-themed clothes in the lead-up to the country's Independence Day on September 16.
It provides valuable income for vendors like Dulsie Mathias, who profit from the patriotic fervour in the lead-up to the national day.
"We got Independence in 1975 and now PNG is a free country and we are coming to sell things about our day in September," she said.
The products Ms Mathias is selling are made in China, and her meri blouses are significantly cheaper than those made by the local cottage industry.

"We have all sorts of shapes and forms, PNG women, so I think the meri blouse covers and makes us look good," she said.
"I have a lot of customers who come — young women and up to older women as well."

There are some international conventions that aim to protect cultural items, and PNG does have legislation to prevent valuable artefacts and relics from being removed from the country.
But there is no specific protection for cultural products like meri blouses or other traditional costumes, which means they can be copied and manufactured overseas.

Ms Maliaki said the meri blouse was unique to PNG and should only made there.
"They can allow them to bring in some products — but such as PNG colours and all this, they should stop them, or put some kind of restriction on how much quantity should come into the country," she said.
"It really isn't fair when we are trying to make quality products, products we make with our own hands and skills."



Every year, millions of visitors flock to Kings Park to enjoy spectacular views of Perth and the Swan River or enjoy its unique wildflowers and flora.
But at least some of the extra attendees in a year of record visitation would not have looked up from their phones for long enough to notice any of that.
Last year's Pokemon Go craze was a big part of a sharp rise in attendance numbers to Kings Park during the financial year, with an estimated 6.3 million people visiting in total.
That was a 12.5 per cent improvement on the previous year and the highest on record.
In mid 2016, the 'Pokemon Go' phenomenon saw masses of people descend on the park to hunt "pocket monsters" lurking around the site.
"It was pretty crazy," Botanic Gardens and Park Authority executive director Marcelle Broderick said.
"We had an immense number of people all in pretty concentrated areas."

It was not all good for authorities, who had to deploy additional police and traffic management personnel during the craze and then spend tens of thousand of dollars replacing lawn and doing other repairs once it all died down.
Ms Broderick said Pokemon Go was not the only factor in the spike in attendance, saying the 'Boorna Waanginy' event which opened the Perth International Arts Festival in February also brought in large numbers of visitors.
Ms Borderick said day-to-day visitation was continually higher than in previous years.
"It is a sustained increase right through the year," she said.
"Of the 6.3 million visitors, about 82 per cent are local people, so the local community visits repeatedly and clearly loves and treasures Kings Park."
Other Perth landmarks achieved mixed attendance results for the 2016-17 financial year, according to figures provided to State Parliament.
At Perth Zoo, attendance fell 5 per cent from the record level the previous year but the facility still welcomed more than 650,000 visitors.
The WA Museum said 186,000 people attended its off-site exhibitions following the temporary closure of the CBD site last year.
A boost in the number of Perth residents heading to the Bell Tower took its attendance past 60,000, despite continued drops in the number of visitors from interstate and overseas.



Former defence minister David Johnston, who once declared he would not trust government shipyard ASC to "build a canoe", now believes the Adelaide-based company should play a major role in the construction of Australia's most high-tech warships.
In 2014, Mr Johnston could not hide his frustration with ASC's performance, but now the former Liberal senator is backing ASC and its West Australian partner Austal in a bid to win work on Australia's $35 billion Future Frigate program.
"The shipbuilders, the management of the yard, should be Australian," Mr Johnston told the ABC.
"We have a world-class shipbuilder in Austal, teaming with ASC who has come out of the doldrums — it had a lot of problems when I was the minister, a lot of problems, and now it's doing world-class work.
"Why are we not getting them to participate in this? I find it very, very curious."
Spanish company Navantia, UK firm BAE Systems and Italian shipbuilder Fincantieri have been shortlisted in a fierce competition to design, build and sustain nine new anti-submarine warfare frigates to replace Australia's existing Anzac frigate fleet.

Defence has warned any change to the current tender could delay the project by at least two years, but Mr Johnston questioned that argument.
"I'm surprised that the wording of the tender virtually excludes Australian actual builders — now, I don't understand why that is," he said.
"The skill and ability that I've talked of is there, is available for all to see, and can be utilised contractually — so this business of a two-year delay in the tender I find quite curious," he said.
ASC said it welcomed Mr Johnston's comments "as recognition of the enormous progress we have made in building Australia's most complex warships", adding its "performance has dramatically improved in recent years".


The last time the Australian dollar was this strong was two-and-a-half years ago. The commodity cycle has rolled over a couple of times since then.

Iron ore was down around $US40 a tonne in late 2015, back to $US90 earlier this year, followed by another stumble, and is now back close to $US80 again.
The dollar always seems to be playing catch-up, and at around 80 cents against the US dollar, opinions are very much divided as to which way it is heading from here.
For the bulls, the fundamentals are strong — it is going up. For sceptics, the dollar is overvalued and heading south.
HSBC's Paul Bloxham is bullish.
"Commodity prices have lifted off their trough, iron ore prices are sitting at higher levels, coal prices have lifted, and that reflects to a degree that global growth is also improving," he said.
"And so it makes sense that the Aussie dollar would also be lifting."
It could have a way to go yet. HSBC is predicting the Australian dollar will be trading around 90 US cents by mid next year.

While weakness in the US dollar has been a factor, Mr Bloxham believes the fundamentals in the local economy — and not just commodity prices — are strong.
"We think overall GDP growth in Australia will pick up into the second half of this year, we think that will start to generate a bit of upward pressure on wages, and a bit of upward pressure on inflation, and in turn we think that that will mean the Reserve Bank of Australia is lifting its cash rate from the early part of 2018," he said.
"All of those things factor in to why we think the Aussie dollar has lifted and why we think there is probably a bit more upside to the Aussie dollar in the short run."
But over at Westpac, senior currency strategist Robert Rennie has a different take.
"My models tend to tell me that above 80 to 82 cents the Australian dollar is expensive," he told The Business.
"And I think that's certainly consistent with the message that we got from the RBA."
Mr Rennie also said one of the factors had been a lower greenback, down about 10 per cent this year.
"And about 5 per cent of that [has been] since the beginning of June. And that probably has been one of the key drivers, and I think it probably explains about 40 per cent of the appreciation in the Australian dollar since the beginning of June," he said.
The weakness in the US dollar can be sheeted home to how investors feel about President Donald Trump.
He has promised business-friendly tax cuts and infrastructure spending that would drive demand for the US dollar, but in spite of controlling both houses, Mr Rennie said President Trump had been unable to deliver.
"The tremendous optimism that we had late last year, early this year, on the idea that we would see a significant run of growth-positive policy coming out of the Trump administration — clearly the fact that we've seen very little delivered so far has weighed on sentiment," he said.
The US central bank has imposed a handful of interest rate rises since 2015.
Now, Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen has signalled rates could stay lower for longer.
The threat of a rogue nuclear North Korea is also causing alarm in global markets.
For those going on overseas holidays or buying imported goods, a high Aussie dollar is good news — they'll get more for less.
But Australian exporters will find their products are more expensive for overseas buyers.
Key among those exports is commodities. Westpac is predicting prices will soften around the end of the year, putting downward pressure on the dollar.
"By the end of this year we've got the Australian dollar back down to 76 cents, and by the end of next year, back down to 70 cents," Mr Rennie said.
But HSBC's Mr Bloxham sees official interest rate rises on the cards in the next few months.
"FX [foreign exchange] markets are tending in recent times to move ahead of central banks, and so our view is that the Reserve Bank of Australia will be starting to lift its cash rate from the early part of next year," he said.
But lifting rates could push the dollar higher again, as foreign investors look to cash in on Australia's comparatively higher interest rates.
Exactly the opposite of what the Reserve Bank wants to see.


As the new media laws finally clambered over their last obstacle, you could almost hear the high-fives slapping in the boardrooms of the big — although somewhat diminished — media companies.

The denouement of the drawn-out and fraught process, televised on the Senate channel, had more the torn and frayed look of the Survivor franchise than the smoochy fairytale feel of The Bachelor, which aired around the same time.
So now the rule book has been rewritten, how is the game going to change? And is the promise of mergers and takeovers of struggling media businesses going to create new champions able to protect and expand their turf?
Certainly, the prospect of mergers is real — if for no other reason than: why did the media owners champion the changes in media ownership rules?
Will they be successful? That is an entirely different question.
It was not so much a rewriting of the Broadcasting Legislation Amendment Bill as just hitting delete on a couple of key provisions that changed things.
Out went the "75 per cent audience reach" rule prohibiting a TV network broadcasting to more than 75 per cent of the population.
It opens up possibilities for the likes of Seven, Nine, Ten and the regional players Prime, Southern Cross and WIN.
The removal of "two-from-three" rule — owning any two of TV, print and radio was OK, owning all three was not — is the one that puts everybody into play.
There are also bits like replacing TV and radio licence fees with a "spectrum fee", although they are unlikely to make much difference to the flow of deals in the wings.
However, that doesn't mean it is total open slather — some checks remain.
The "five/four rule" enshrined by the Howard government in 2007 to prevent the number of media owners falling below five in capital cities and four in regional areas, is still on the books, while the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission — with its own rule book — is still on the prowl looking to bust market domination.
To lesser extent, the Foreign Investment Review Board and shareholders themselves are in the mix, but they have never really been known to stop media takeovers.
A couple of times, shareholders have tried to stand in the way of a merger — to wit, a body of West Australian Newspaper investors against Kerry Stokes in 2011 and Ten investors at the moment — but they have generally been run over in the process.

The big investment bank, Morgan Stanley, has tallied up the permutations and combinations flowing from the law changes and has come up the most likely deals.
There are a fair few options, but for the sake of brevity, this is the short list of the bigger deals being discussed:
Nine and Southern Cross have previously said they've had discussions, but Nine's sale of its 10 per cent stake in the regional broadcaster was not seen as a positive step to a future takeover.
Would it create a bigger, stronger company? Morgan Stanley's Andrew McLeod thinks not.
"Bigger combined audience reach, yes, but higher growth and higher return on capital are questionable," Mr McLeod said.
So Fairfax and Nine? Far more plausible and powerful, according to Mr McLeod.
"This could be a rare opportunity to combine media assets and actually lift revenue growth rates via the two online businesses," he said.
"Nine's video content could strengthen Fairfax's online video capability and lift traffic and audiences for the Fairfax sites."
Importantly, Mr McLeod notes both companies have little or no debt, which is a big advantage in delivering a highly positive earning per share outcome to both sets of investors.
Seven has always been regarded as a natural predator for its regional partner Prime and now the reach rule has been removed, it is off the leash.
Given Prime is a reseller of Seven content, no-one else is likely to bid for it.
Does it make sense for Seven? Sort of, but Prime is a lean operation and the cost savings in merging the two may not be large enough to make it worthwhile, and the potential for ongoing earnings growth is minimal.
Talking about off the leash, News Corp has never been shy about buying businesses — good, bad or indifferent, profitable or unprofitable — it just buys them and considers the consequences and write-downs later.
Last month, it wrote down the value of sundry newspapers, its stake in Foxtel and the REA real estate portal by $1.3 billion. Although that is dwarfed by the impairments News Corp has racked up by buying the likes of Dow Jones and Gemstar over the years.
With its US rival CBS likely to snaffle Ten, News Corp could well turn its attention to Nine or Seven.
News already owns plenty of assets here and so any deal could be quite cost-effective or nerve-racking, depending on whether you are a shareholder or work in a newsroom facing further "rationalisation".
The merger of online businesses and picking up Nine or Seven video content would be handy for News Corp's digital platforms.
Of course, any move from News while OK under the new media laws would still need to leap any hurdle put in its way by the ACCC.
News could always satisfy itself with a tasty morsel like the $700 million Here, There & Everywhere radio network owner of brands such as KIIS and Gold, as well as the Adshel outdoor advertising business.
Earnings based on Morgan Stanley estimates of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA).
The last significant media law changes in 2006 — largely centred on abolishing foreign ownership rules — certainly arced up deal making, both large and small.
It also sparked activity not held back by foreign ownership issues.
The then-Packer vehicle PBL sold half its media assets to the foreign private equity business CVC, proving you can have more than Alan Bond in your life.
Kerry Stokes also hooked up with private equity, this time Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts selling it a 50 per cent stake in his media assets including Seven and the magazine business for $3.2 billion. They are worth about a third of that today.
That deal allowed a cashed-up Mr Stokes to get a large foothold in, and ultimately control of, his hometown West Australian Newspapers.
Fairfax headed bush and bought Rural Press.
Morgan Stanley's Andrew McLeod says the experience of 2006 shows transactions could occur very quickly in 2017.
"Some of the remaining ownership rules, such as the 'five/four minimum voices' rule, present a first-mover advantage for consolidation occurring in some assets and some markets," he said.
The bigger question is whether any of this will create more robust businesses able to compete and grow against the likes of Facebook and Google in the ad market.
Unlike King Canute of yore, who stood in front of a tide to prove his fallibility knowing such things were beyond mere mortals, the Government is backing its plan to help turn back the digital tsunami crashing in from offshore and sweeping away local profits.
Good luck with that, says Mr McLeod.
"We think the key debate is whether on the other side of any merger and acquisition, higher growth/better quality media companies emerge — or if after one year's costs savings are banked, the downward trajectory in earnings and shareholder value resumes," he said.
"We can envisage a few genuine re-invention opportunities, but in most cases it's more likely the latter."

Last year Australian TV networks lost around $1 billion between them, newspapers have lost even more over recent years, while profitability in radio is flat-lining at best.
The test will be to achieve real top-line growth in sales, not just confected and unsustainable profit growth from cost-cutting.
The problem there is the advertising revenue pool is a bit of a zero sum game — with some GDP-style growth added in.
In such a relatively stagnant pool, gaining sales means someone is losing.
And on an exponential scale, the digital giants are winning and everyone else is losing.
The one thing the likes of Facebook and Google won't do is bail out Australian shareholders with an ill-considered purchase of an old economy business. They are not that dumb.



Bruce Gordon and Lachlan Murdoch have wasted no time in launching their latest bid to take over the struggling Ten Network.
This follows the Senate's passing of the media law reform bill on Thursday (by a vote of 31-27), thanks to crossbench support from One Nation and the Nick Xenophon Team.
This law would abolish the "two out of three" and "reach" rule which, together, prevent a company from owning a newspaper, TV and radio station in the same city, and from broadcasting to more than 75 per cent of the population.
Emboldened by this legislative development, the media moguls — through their private companies Biketu and Illyria — submitted a new proposal to Ten's administrators KordaMentha on Friday.
The terms of the revised Gordon-Murdoch offer are "compelling" for a number of reasons such as the fact is is now a "significantly lower transaction risk", according to the bid document reviewed by the ABC.
It is unclear at this stage whether KordaMentha will put the duo's joint bid for a vote at the second creditors' meeting next Tuesday (September 19).
Under their new offer, Mr Gordon and Mr Murdoch have increased their pool of cash for Ten's unsecured creditors by 57 per cent — from $35 million to $55 million.
This is higher than US media giant CBS's offer of $32 million, according to a supplementary report released by KordaMentha on Monday.
In addition, their private companies, Ten's employees and continuing trade creditors would receive 100c in the dollar, while all other creditors would get 5.75c in the dollar.

CBS, being Ten's largest creditor, would also receive a more generous deal in the new proposal — $20 million, or 5.75c in the dollar.
In comparison, the US media giant would receive a lower amount of $7.4 million under the original Gordon-Murdoch bid.
"Ten will remain listed on the ASX," Birketu and Illyria said in their latest proposal.
Ten's 17,000 shareholders would get to keep 25 per cent of their equity, and the network would be re-listed on the ASX. But under the CBS bid, the shareholders' holdings would be completely wiped out.
However, "all current shareholders in Ten (including all employee shareholders) will be diluted through the issue of [1.07 billion] options or shares" to Mr Gordon's and Mr Murdoch's private companies, according to the new proposal.
The additional shares or options would also give them a combined 75 per cent stake in Ten.
As for how this revised offer of $55 million would be funded, it would be through a new debt facility, which is expected to be provided by Commonwealth Bank, and guaranteed by Mr Gordon and Mr Murdoch. But it is not yet know how much this debt facility is worth.
Mr Gordon has already succeeded in delaying the second creditors' meeting, originally scheduled on September 12, this Tuesday, through his Supreme Court action against the administrators.
In the court action, Mr Gordon sought a declaration from Justice Ashley Black that KordaMentha's creditors' report was deficient, and failed to give adequate information about his joint bid with Mr Murdoch.
They are also seeking orders for the weighting of CBS's vote to be reduced to $1. That would significantly hamper CBS's ability to vote on its own offer at next week's creditors' meeting.
The Supreme Court of NSW will hand down its decision on Monday morning — the day before the second creditors' meeting.


Financial Services Minister Kelly O'Dwyer has rejected claims that reintroduced legislation to overhaul the governance of superannuation funds is ideological.

The laws were quietly introduced on Thursday amid the noise from last-minute negotiations to strike a deal on media law reforms, and the release of previously confidential papers of former High Court judge Lionel Murphy.
A key proposal in the legislation is to force industry boards to ensure a third of trustees are independent and that an independent chairman is appointed,
Ms O'Dwyer said claims by union-backed industry super funds that the Government was pursuing an ideological dispute were a diversion from the need to protect the interests of members.
"It's not ideological at all. This is a massive distraction from the main game," she said.
"You've got people within some of these [industry] funds who I would suggest are very ideological themselves.
"The package of reforms that the Government is bringing forward applies equally across the sector to all funds, whether they're retail, industry or corporate funds.
"This is important because we force people to put money aside from their wages to provide for their retirement income, and people need to know that money is protected."

The Federal Government has been struggling to pass legislation since its proposed reforms were blocked by the Senate in December 2015.
Ms O'Dwyer has been the latest minister charged with pushing through the reforms, after similar moves by her predecessors Josh Frydenberg and Arthur Sinodinos were stalled.
Industry Super Australia has accused the Government of caving in to pressure from retail funds to dismantle the current governance of super funds.
Chief executive David Whiteley said the Government was giving banks a "leave pass" on transparency and disclosure requirements.
"Rather than dealing with the big issues like the superannuation gender gap and unpaid superannuation, it appears the Government has caved in, dismantling the successful industry super governance model," he said.
Industry Super Australia has been running an advertising campaign in recent months likening retail superannuation funds to foxes in the henhouse.
The three bills introduced would provide greater oversight of Australia's $2.3 trillion superannuation sector, handing greater powers to the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA), and giving workers the right to choose their own fund.
Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter @peter_f_ryan and on his Main Street blog.


As Malcolm Turnbull concluded his final answer during Question Time on Thursday, after two weeks of political rough and tumble, his backbench literally thumped their desks in support.
It was a rare sight for a party which usually spends way too much time staring despondently at their phones, led by a man who, since taking on the job of Prime Minister two years ago, has fallen well short of voters' expectations.
Just before Question Time got underway, the PM had gathered his troops in the atrium adjoining the chamber to congratulate them for their efforts over the gruelling fortnight in Canberra.
He was right to do so.
It has in fact been one of his best parliamentary sessions in many months.
The week ended with the Senate passing the full suite of media reforms that previous governments have been trying to land for many, many years.
"It is another example of making the 45th Parliament work," the Prime Minister beamed from the courtyard outside his Parliamentary office.

A strong finish for a Government that began the fortnight in the grip of chaos.
Labor had gone the nuclear option on Barnaby Joyce's citizenship status, disrupting every day of last week's Parliament with gag motions and attempts to suspend debate.
But the Tony Abbott-inspired tactic hurt Labor as much as the Government and this week the Opposition finally stepped onto the Coalition's preferred battleground.
Rather than the citizenship crisis and the divisive issue of same-sex marriage, the Government and Opposition became fully engaged on the issue of energy.
The Government wants to be seen to be fighting on behalf of voters who are paying too much for electricity.
Hence AGL boss Andy Vesey became the latest energy executive to be hauled unceremoniously to Canberra for a stern talking to.
Energy Minister Josh Frydenberg went toe-to-toe with Labor's Joel Fitzgibbon in the corridors of the press gallery. And the Government continued its puerile attacks on "Blackout Bill" Shorten, "Brownout [Mark] Butler" and "No Coal Joel" Fitzgibbon.
It doesn't seem matter to them who they're fighting, as long as they're seen to be taking up arms.

For now, it's a tactic that is working for the Government, but several members of Cabinet are concerned about the longer-term risks.
All pretence of an "energy trilemma" has now been dropped.
Consideration of low carbon emissions now comes a distant third to power prices and reliability of supply.
In fact, a sizable number of MPs believe the Chief Scientist's preferred option of a Clean Energy Target is now "dead".
But with nothing to replace it, the uncertainty that continues to repel potential investors in the energy sector remains, as does the risk of price spikes and blackouts.
The Federal Government has fought all year to take ownership of energy, an issue that used to be the domain of the states.
Now Mr Turnbull owns a big and complex problem.
If he actually delivers lower power bills and reliability of supply, while meeting our Paris climate commitments, he'll be seen in a very good light indeed.
But if there are blackouts this summer and further electricity price spikes to come, he'll rightly cop the blame and this fortnight's tactical win in Parliament will mean nothing.


A group of women has brought a class action against Australia's largest cosmetic surgery provider, The Cosmetic Institute (TCI), alleging negligence during breast augmentation procedures left them with life-threatening complications.

The case, filed in the New South Wales Supreme Court, claims TCI breached its duty of care to patients by utilising a "one size fits all" approach to breast augmentations.
A statement of claim also alleges the company's staff lacked the capacity to access urgent medical assistance in emergencies, and the clinics did not have adequate infection controls.
"These women have suffered a range of complications including cardiac arrests from toxic doses of anaesthesia, lung punctures, infections, and physical disfigurement," said lawyer Sally Gleeson from Turner Freeman.
One of the five lead applicants is a Western Australian woman who in 2015 went into cardiac arrest during a breast augmentation at TCI's Parramatta clinic.
The other participants include a New South Wales woman who suffered seizures during her procedure, and a Queensland student who required emergency surgery after developing a severe post-operative infection.
"The Cosmetic Institute has left a trail of victims who were promised top-quality cosmetic surgery in a highly advanced medical setting, but instead have suffered serious injuries and ongoing pain and suffering as a result of their treatment," Ms Gleeson said.
The class action also alleges TCI used identical surgical techniques on almost all patients, regardless of their size or breast shape, which has resulted in poorly positioned implants and scarring.

The Cosmetic Institute describes itself as the "largest" breast enhancement clinic in Australia.
It has clinics in Sydney, the Gold Coast and Melbourne, offering breast augmentations for $5,990.
Last year, the New South Wales Health Care Complaints Commission investigation found The Cosmetic Institute appeared to be giving high doses of anaesthetic to patients without their consent.
"Adrenaline was used routinely (in combination with local anaesthetic agents) ... at well above the accepted upper limit of safe dosage," the report found.
It found the clinics "placed the health and safety of members of the public at risk".
Ms Gleeson told the ABC she's been approached by several hundred women who were unhappy with their surgeries at TCI since 2014.
"If we take TCI's claims on their website to be accurate, they have performed breast augmentations on thousands of women, so I wouldn't be surprised if more women continue to come forward," she said.
"Every patient deserves competent treatment and follow up care. This class action is about delivering justice for this large group of women who continue to suffer from the impact of TCI's failures to appropriately and safely carry out these procedures."
Turner Freeman said TCI patients who have had complications could still join the class action suit.
The Cosmetic Institute said it would not be discussing the case publicly.
"Should this matter proceed, we will be defending any allegations made against TCI," the company said in a statement to the ABC.


Clive Palmer says his nephew Clive Mensink is still being paid more than $4,000 per week by his companies, while the subject of two arrest warrants.
The Federal Court issued the arrest warrants for Mr Mensink, a former Queensland Nickel director, in March, after he failed to show up to answer questions about the collapse of Queensland Nickel.
Mr Palmer is giving evidence before the Queensland Supreme Court as part of a two-day hearing where taxpayer-funded liquidators are trying to freeze his assets amid a $500 million court case to claw back debts to Queensland Nickel creditors and sacked workers.
He told the court in May he was not aware of any payments to Mr Mensink, but on Friday testified he was "heavily sedated at the time".
During the appearance in May, Mr Palmer hobbled into court clutching a sick bag, a breathing apparatus and pillow, claiming he was taking medication that caused memory loss.
Today, Mr Palmer admitted Mr Mensink is entitled to a wage of more than $200,000.
"That would be a precise figure that he's entitled to," he said.
"He'd be paid for three years [after his contract ended], he was entitled to receive his salary.

"I recall being aware of it, I was aware he was being paid his salary and would continue to be paid."
When asked if he was responsible for the change of payment from Queensland Nickel Sales to Mineralogy, Mr Palmer said it did not matter what company the money came from.
The court heard Mr Mensink was being paid through Queensland Nickel Sales until March, but then continued to be paid the same figure by Mr Palmer's flagship company, Mineralogy.
"It all comes from me," he said.
"I'm the only source of cash."
Queensland Nickel collapsed last January with $300 million in debt, and more than 800 people lost their jobs.
Outside court Mr Palmer said he did not think it was unfair Mr Mensink was still paid while Queensland Nickel workers were sacked.
"No, I think they're two separate things, these issues will be dealt with in the court," he said.
"The reality of it is, Mr Mensink is entitled to his normal payments as any other worker would be and that's paid and that's guaranteed by Mineralogy, and it's guaranteed by Queensland Nickel Sales."
"We've got no legal ability to stop payments to anybody."
Mr Palmer told the court in May, Mr Mensink was on an extended overseas holiday and he last spoke to Mr Mensink while he was in the Caribbean on a cruise last year.
The court also heard Mr Palmer's father-in-law "coincidently" bumped into Mr Mensink twice overseas, once on a Caribbean cruise and once in the Bulgarian capital Sofia in February.
Barrister Shane Doyle QC, acting for the liquidators, then asked if he was aware of the change.
"I personally wasn't," Mr Palmer responded.
"But I agreed he should be paid, and continue to be paid three years after his termination."
Mr Doyle also asked Mr Palmer whether Mr Mensink still worked for some of his companies.
Mr Palmer responded he was not sure but he thought Mr Mensink ceased being a director of the companies in December 2016.
Mr Palmer said he did not think Mr Mensink had a fugitive status.
"You can't take from people their property and their entitlement unless you do it under a court order," he said.


Taxpayers are forking out at least $40 million to buy the beleaguered Heyfield timber mill in Gippsland, with the existing management becoming a shareholder along with the Victorian Government.
The Government has finally signed a deal to buy the business, after Premier Daniel Andrews made the extraordinary decision to buy the mill in July.
Under the arrangement, Australian Sustainable Hardwoods will continue to operate under the ownership of the Government and a shareholder group made up of the mill's management.
The Government has not said how much taxpayers have paid to buy the business but it is understood at least $40 million has been paid.
The previous owners threatened to close the plant after the state-owned VicForests provided a smaller-than-expected timber supply to the business, due to dwindling supply from the environmentally and politically sensitive central highlands.

The decreased supply was due to areas of native forest being locked up because of Leadbeater's Possum protection zones and bushfire damage to suitable forests.
The mill processes mountain ash hardwoods, and the owners said the supply offer was not viable to keep the business running.
The Hermal group, which owned the mill, wanted a supply of 150,000 cubic metres but only 80,000m3 was offered.
Up to 250 jobs were at risk and there will still be job losses under the Government bailout.

The Andrews Government believes the business can operate on a smaller supply and, with the mill sitting in already-under-pressure Gippsland, it decided to buy the business.
Employment Minister Wade Noonan will oversee the transition and the establishment of a new corporate structure.
Mr Noonan said Labor was fulfilling its promise to stand up for local jobs.
"We have secured the future of this mill — saving jobs, protecting the timber industry and ensuring the local Heyfield economy is supported into the future," he said.
Conservationists have railed against logging in the central highlands and have recently argued the forests are critical to Melbourne's water supply and the Yarra Valley tourism industry.
The industry has argued for more timber to be made available, including by reducing buffer zones for possums.
The Opposition accused the Government of misleading the people of Heyfield due to mixed messages abut how many jobs would be saved.
Local MP Tim Bull said the Government should open up more timber supply.
"These jobs wouldn't have needed saving if Labor hadn't refused to guarantee a viable timber supply,'' he said.
"Daniel Andrews is so desperate to secure Greens preferences and the seats of his inner-city MPs that he is willing to sacrifice those in our east Gippsland communities."
The decision to buy the mill prompted environmentalists to call on the Andrews Government to create a Great Forest national park.
The Wilderness Society said now the Heyfield matter was resolved, the Premier should turn his attention to the environment.

"The Andrews Government was elected on a platform of delivering outcomes for forests, workers, industry and wildlife," its spokeswoman Amelia Young said.
"The Wilderness Society has been repeatedly informed that uncertainty over the Heyfield sawmill was preventing action on protecting forests.
"Now that the Heyfield sawmill sale has been finalised, Premier Andrews must immediately commence a process to create new national parks in this term of office."
The Victorian Association of Forest Industries chief executive Tim Johnston welcomed the Government's move.
"The forest, fibre and wood products industry is the lifeblood of many rural and regional communities across Victoria," he said.
"It is a $7 billion industry that employs 21,000 Victorians and supports another 40,000 to 50,000 local jobs, many of these in regional areas."


Google is being accused by three former female employees in California of discrimination against women within the workplace.

The women have filed a lawsuit against the US company, in the latest allegation of sexual discrimination in Silicon Valley.
They have claimed they were paid significantly less compared to their male counterparts, and that they were put into positions with fewer promotions.
It comes as the US Department of Labor investigates whether the company has been discriminating against women.
Anne Shaver, one of the lawyers representing the women, said while Google had faced individual gender discrimination before, this was the first time a class action had been filed against them.
"The main complaint here is simple, it's that women at Google are not receiving equal pay for equal work," she said.
According to the complaints document, the women have gone as far as claiming Google 'segregated women within the workplace'.
"They put into user interface roles, instead of product development and so forth," Ms Shaver said.
"These distinctions are drawn within the company that really have an effect on women's job opportunities and women compensation in particular."

All three plaintiffs — Kelly Ellis, Holly Pease and  Kelli Wisuri — held senior positions within the company.
The lead plaintiff on the case, Ms Ellis, was hired in 2010 by Google as a frontend software engineer as part of the Google photos team and was offered the same base salary as her previous job.
At the time of her hiring, she had four years' experience working in the same field.
According to the suit, she was placed in a Level three software engineering ladder, the level which Google typically assigns to new college graduates.
Within a few weeks of Ms Ellis's time at Google, the company hired a male software engineer onto her team with similar qualifications as Ms Ellis, yet he was placed into the higher-paying Level 4 ladder.
At Google, Level 4 software engineers receive substantially higher salaries and more opportunities for bonuses, raises and equity.
Ms Ellis's claim is that when she initially applied for a promotion, Google denied her application despite the company acknowledging her excellent performance.
Eventually Ms Ellis obtained the Level 4 position, however by that time, the suit says her male counterparts had already moved up the ladder, "ensuring she could never catch up on the gender pay gap".
Ms Pease and Ms Wisuri had similar stories of being held back and placed on lower-paying career tracks.
Ms Shaver said if the case became certified as a class action, it would include thousands of female employees across the state of California.
"We don't know yet the exact number of employees that it will affect," she said.
"But we do know that Google employs tens and thousands of workers in California — so the number will be large."
Ms Shaver said the goal was the lawsuit would eventually have repercussions throughout the tech industry, such as in the way companies assigned jobs and compensate employees.
"We're hoping that will take the effect, not just in California of course, but throughout the company," she said.
"Our hope is that this lawsuit will really echo throughout Silicon Valley as a result of Google's prominence."
In a statement, Google said job levels and promotions were, "determined through rigorous hiring and promotion committees".
"And must pass multiple levels of review, including checks to make sure there is no gender bias in these decisions," the statement said.
"If we ever see individual discrepancies or problems, we work to fix them, because Google has always sought to be a great employer, for every one of our employees."
The latest in legal pressure on Google has been closely observed by women in the Australian tech industry.

Taryn Williams launched her own startup, The Right Fit, and is on the board of industry group TechSydney.
"[It's] definitely been something that's been discussed at length in the tech scene, especially in Sydney," she said.
"I think it's really great that people have been publicly voicing their opinions and really getting out and putting their support behind the women in tech."
And it's a timely reminder for tech companies in Australia.
"In our space in technology there's a vast underrepresentation of women, that's partly due to a pipeline problem," Ms Williams said.
"But potentially also because of problems like this.
"If there are massive pay gaps and if there are internal hiring processes that prevent women from getting promotions, from being hired into positions in the first place, then that's definitely something we need to … closely address."


Energy shares and rebounding oil prices were behind the gains on US and European stock markets overnight.

But it was an otherwise lacklustre day for the world's major equity indexes, which mainly finished lower.
One notable exception was the Dow Jones which, for the third straight day, closed at a fresh record — up just 0.2 per cent to 22,203.
Aside from energy, the other top-performing sector in the US was utilities. Though half the other sectors were sold-off by investors.
The key energy stocks which boosted the Dow were Exxon Mobil (up 0.4 pc to $US80.09), and Chevron (up 0.24 pc to $US114.45). Boeing shares also propelled this index, with the aviation company gaining 1.36 per cent to $US245.23.
However, the S&P 500 and Nasdaq took a dive, as higher-than-expected inflation figures raised the likelihood of US interest rates rising by the end of 2017.
The consumer price index rose 0.4 per cent in August over the previous month. On a year-over-year basis, the cost of living in America increased by 1.9 per cent.
An uplift in gasoline prices and rent costs were the main factors driving inflation higher.
Now the probability of the Federal Reserve announcing its third rate hike for the year lifted to about 52 per cent, according to CME Group's FedWatch tool.
Meanwhile, the Bank of England signalled its first interest rate hike in a decade might happen in the "coming months".
The bank's policymakers, by a 7-2 majority, voted on Thursday to keep rates on hold at their record-low 0.25 per cent, which was widely expected.
The BOE also released new guidance which raised the sterling to a one-year high against the US dollar.
Expectations of a UK rate hike by the end of the year lifted to more than 50 per cent.
The British economy looked closer to running at full capacity, with rising wages and employment levels, which boosted inflation pressures, the BOE said.
Most of the BOE's policymakers felt, "some withdrawal of monetary stimulus was likely to be appropriate over the coming months" — if the economic trends continued.
It will be a quiet day in economic news, as no new data will be released today.
The Australian dollar was steady at two-year high levels — hovering between 79.5 and 80.4 US cents since Thursday afternoon.
Furthermore, Australia's key export, iron ore plunged 3.4 per cent on the back of weaker economic data from China.
China's home sales rose 3.8 per cent in August, its slowest pace since November 2014.
"Growth in industrial production also fell to 6 per cent, versus expectations of 6.6 per cent," ANZ's head of Australian economics, David Plank, said.
"However, demand for raw materials appears to remain strong."


There's plenty of advice out there for first home buyers and other mortgage borrowers on how to get a loan.
But it's easy to overlook how people get into situations where they borrow more than they can afford to repay.
Here's why you should be wary about applying for a loan before you have run your own numbers.
A mainstream lender will look at a client's income after tax to determine the value of the mortgage loan.
They also take into account a client's expenses — including other mortgages, car loans and credit card repayments — as well as the client's living expenses and deposit amount.
These are the main things they're looking for:
Lenders are also required to apply a base interest rate percentage figure to loan repayments that is about 2 per cent over the loan interest rate or about 7 per cent in total.
For example, if a person is being offered a 4 per cent loan, the lender will "assess the amount that can be borrowed based on an interest rate of about 7 per cent," Sydney-based mortgage broker Bruce Carr from Loanscape said.

Mortgage brokers must act according to the responsible lending conduct set out by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission in The National Credit Act.

Under these requirements, credit licensees must not enter into a credit contract or consumer lease with a consumer, suggest a credit contract or consumer lease to a consumer or assist a consumer to apply for a credit contract or consumer lease if the credit contract or consumer lease is unsuitable for the consumer.
But as Four Corners pointed out a couple of weeks ago, all the big banks have performance targets. That means they need to "sell" a lot of home loans.
"There have been people in the industry who have been lending clients too much money, encouraging them to borrow more than what they can comfortably afford," former mortgage broker Philip Dempsey told the program.
In its review of mortgage broker remuneration, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission found that loans provided through the broker channel are on average larger and have a higher loan-to-valuation ratio (LVR) than loans provideddirectly through lenders.

It also identified "significant numbers of loans across several lenders where the consumer expenses were stated to be equal to the HEM benchmark".
"The proportion of loans we reviewed where the consumer's expenses were equal to or very close to the HEM benchmark suggests that [inquiries into the consumer's actual expenses] were not occurring properly," it noted.
In fact, a recent UBS survey of more than 900 people who took out home loans found a quarter of respondents said their loan application was only "mostly factual and accurate".
They found that the most common lie was understating living costs, while understating other debts or overstating income or assets each accounted for around 15 per cent of misrepresentations.
So if people are giving inaccurate information, then it is possible that they could be borrowing more than they can afford to repay.
This lines up with what Consumer Action Law Centre senior policy officer Katherine Temple says the centre had been hearing from clients.
"What we have seen is there hasn't been a proper assessment of people's income and expenses and this has led to people having more debt than they can pay back," Ms Temple said.
"… So, what we have seen is people perhaps overstating what they earn and maybe underestimating their expenses and this information not being properly verified by the banks."
Not without a guarantor. There was a time when people could borrow 100 per cent loans, but the requirements to access these loans have been tightened by the banks in the last few years.

Australians can no longer access no deposit home loans from a bank without a guarantor (for example, your parents provide a guarantee with their own property).
Most banks suggest borrowers save a 20 per cent deposit.
In some cases, a range of lenders still offer loans for 95 per cent of the purchase price, according to Home Loan Experts.
The criteria for these loans is much harder, with borrowers required to have a clear credit history, a good income, minimal debts and stable employment.
You'll also likely have to pay a lenders mortgage insurance premium because these loans are deemed to be "high risk".
You might be asking yourself, 'who would borrow a "high risk" loan?' But as Ms Temple point out, borrowers can fall into an "optimism bias".

"There's been a lot of research around the behavioural biases that can impact our borrowing behaviour and one of them is the optimism bias," Ms Temple said.
"We are often more optimistic about what we earn and also about our expenses then perhaps the reality and that's a bias all of us are subject to."
It's not only the banks who lose out if you fail to account for unseen expenses or future rate rises.
Mr Carr suggests borrowers do their own sums, taking into account future interest rate rises before applying for a loan — even if most banks now use a buffer rate as part of their loan assessment.
"Say you had an investment property home loan, all the property investment loans were being assessed at say a 4 per cent [actual repayment] rate," he said.
"And now they're all being assessed at 7.25 rate … that's a significant change and it's only flowed through in the last 12 months or so. And the biggest impact has been on multiple property investors."
Along with the obvious tasks of doing a budget and taking into account the risk that interest rates will rise and that house prices will fall, Ms Temple suggests also looking at circumstances where "things don't go to plan".
"You also need to take into account the risk of illness, losing your job, or something [else] going wrong," she said.
"A lot of the people who call us are not necessarily bad with money, but something has happened in their lives that has caused them hardship and it has led to them being in financial stress — a relationship breakdown, etc — so it's important to have a buffer when something goes wrong."


A public inquiry into a fire that killed at least 80 people at London's Grenfell Tower will get to the truth about the tragedy, its chairman pledged at the opening, but critics say survivors of the blaze are still being failed.

The 24-storey social housing block, home to a poor, multi-ethnic community, was gutted on June 14 in an inferno that started in a fourth-floor apartment in the middle of the night and quickly engulfed the building.
Grenfell Tower was part of a deprived housing estate in Kensington and Chelsea, one of the richest boroughs in London, and the disaster has prompted a national debate about social inequality and government neglect of poor communities.
The inquiry started with a minute's silence to honour the victims, whose exact number remains unknown because of the devastation inside the tower.
"[The inquiry] can and will provide answers to the pressing questions of how a disaster of this kind could occur in 21st century London," its chairman, retired judge Martin Moore-Bick, said in his opening statement.
He said the inquiry was not there to punish anyone or to award compensation, but to get to the truth.
A separate police investigation is underway, which could result in manslaughter charges. There have been no arrests.
The inquiry will examine the cause and spread of the fire, the design, construction and refurbishment of the tower, whether fire regulations relating to high-rise buildings are adequate and whether they were complied with. It will also look at the actions of the authorities before and after the tragedy.

But critics warned of a disconnect between the technical, legalistic inquiry process and the ongoing ordeal of traumatised Grenfell Tower residents still awaiting new homes.
Prime Minister Theresa May pledged all families whose homes were destroyed in the fire would be rehoused within three weeks, but three months later most still live in hotels.
Just three out of 197 households that needed rehousing have moved into permanent homes, while 29 have moved into temporary accommodation.
"We lost everything. It's difficult for the other people to be in our shoes," Miguel Alves, who escaped his 13th-floor apartment in Grenfell Tower with his family, told reporters.
"Now I'm without anything, I'm in the hotel, I have to cope with my family. My daughter, she just started school. They need some stability and that I cannot give to my family."

Emma Dent Coad, a member of parliament from the opposition Labour Party who represents the area, said the inquiry's remit was too narrow and would fail to address the blaze's deeper causes, such as failings in social housing policies.
She also criticised the choice of venue for Judge Moore-Bick's opening statement, a lavishly decorated room in central London.
"We were sitting in a ballroom dripping with chandeliers," she said.
"I think it was the most incredibly inappropriate place to have something like that, and actually says it all about the us-and-them divide that people see."
Many of those affected have also expressed disquiet about the fact Judge Moore-Bick and the other lawyers appointed to run the inquiry are all white and part of a perceived "establishment" far removed from their own circumstances.

"The experience of many residents of that tower is that they were ignored because of their immigration status," lawyer Jolyon Maugham, who is advising some residents, said.
"We need someone on the inquiry team that can speak to that experience and at the moment on the panel we have a bunch of white privileged barristers," he said.
One of the difficulties facing the inquiry is that it needs former residents to give evidence but some fear possible deportation.
The government has said it would grant a 12-month amnesty to anyone affected by the fire who was in Britain illegally.
Supporters say only permanent residency rights will persuade people to come forward.




The sale of 29,000 hectares of hardwood plantations is a great outcome for Tasmania, the Government says, but Labor, the Greens and environmental groups are not sold.
Resources Minister Guy Barnett spruiked the $60.7 million sale to Reliance Forest Fibre, as a deal that will allow Sustainable Timber Tasmania to become debt-free and commercially viable while also promoting local jobs.

Mr Barnett told Parliament the announcement was consistent with the government's "plans for a sustainable future which will deliver confidence and growth and opportunity for Tasmania's forest industry."
"The transaction will result in diversification of ownership in the forestry sector, bringing global expertise in capital to Tasmania ... creating more jobs," he said.
The Government described Reliance Forest Fibre as a "new enterprise owned by investment funds advised by Global Forest Partners (GFP) LP".
"Global Forest Partners is an international forest investment advisory firm with approximately 700,000 ha of timberland across the globe under management, valued at around $3.7 billion," it said.
But the Greens said Reliance Forest Fibre was only registered in July, with ASIC documents showing it's holding company Global Forest Partners LP has links offshore.
"Their parent company is based in a tax haven in the Cayman Islands, so there are legitimate questions to be asked about this company," Greens Leader Cassy O'Connor said.
Ms O'Connor pointed to a 2012 letter from the Auditor-General conservatively estimated the 29,000 hectares to be worth at least $101 million.
"The Tasmanian people have been ripped off," she said.
"It's an absolute betrayal of the Premier's promise to the Tasmanian people that his government wouldn't privatise public assets."
The Labor Opposition said Tasmanian's could have reasonably expected the plantations to sell for close to $200 million.
The Wilderness Society also said taxpayers had been dudded.
"Flogging off publicly owned plantations at a massive loss to subsidise unviable native forest logging operations is a desperate last-ditch effort to hide the ongoing failures of Premier (Will) Hodgman's chaotic approach to forestry," Vica Bayley of the Wilderness Society said.
While this is GFP's first venture into Tasmania, the international timber giant has operated in Australia since 1999.
The US-owned multinational corporation currently managed funds that hold about 150,000 planted hectares on mainland Australia.
Health Minister Michael Ferguson said there shouldn't be any doubt over the buyer.
"The Greens are fruiting this up, it's silly, where the parent of parent company is based is irrelevant," Mr Ferguson said.
"This is a robust deal, the money is real money and it's an investment in our state and it means that jobs will remain in our state.
"This has been an appropriately arms-length negotiation and process."
He said the majority of the proceeds from the sale would go to paying down Sustainable Timber Tasmania's debt, with around $15 million to be spent on the health system.
"We'll continue to do our work to employ more staff and to open more resources including beds, so we can meet demand and give Tasmanians the health system we know they deserve," Mr Ferguson said.
The company issued a statement late on Thursday reaffirming its commitment to employing local management and contractors.
The statement also said the new enterprise was committed to sound environmental management and will seek independent forest management certification.


An independent review into the deeply troubled accountancy organisation CPA Australia has found the former chief executive was overpaid, it had lost touch with its members and provided questionable value for money for the services it rendered.

While much of the interim report had elements of "tell us something we don't know" for anyone following the implosion of the profile-obsessed professional body, it did make recommendations to overhaul corporate governance and practices.
The review, headed by former federal auditor general Ian McPhee, was established as the previous CPA board collapsed and before the under siege former CEO Alex Malley was shown the door with a $4.9 million pay out.
"It is fair to say that, over time, the Board and the then CEO lost touch with a large cohort of the membership of CPA Australia," the review noted.
"When under pressure, the board and CPA Australia has commonly defaulted to the minimum standard of disclosure.
"This has occurred in response to significant issues raised by members and the media, rather than giving emphasis to transparency and the likely interests of the membership."
In what is in the running for corporate Australia's understatement of the year, the review found "the board could have handled things better".

By the end of the debacle, seven of the twelve member board had quit, making it impossible to form a quorum at meetings.
Despite these glaring failings, the review found the remuneration of the boards of CPA Australia and its new and loss making financial planning wing, CPA Advice, were "above the expectations of many members and those of benchmarked member-based organisations".
The $4.9 million payout to Mr Malley — the equivalent to three years of an already healthy wage — was well above what would be considered standard for a CEO position while senior CPA executives were "paid more than comparable positions at other member-based organisations".
While the review found the objectives and spending of the CPA's $30 million marketing budget were compatible with other professional organisations, it questioned the wisdom of large sports sponsorships, such as underwriting the National Basketball League, and the overemphasis on promoting Mr Malley.
CPA Australia members paid for Mr Malley's commercial TV chat show and a heavily promoted autobiography featured in airport lobbies and on Melbourne trams.

It also questioned holding this year's annual general meeting in Singapore where members did not have real-time participation despite live streaming being provided.
The review also noted considerable disgruntlement with members about the value they received from fees paid.
"Some members have indicated that there is a misalignment between services and membership costs," it said.
"In particular, that the cost of professional development and training is also perceived as being too high."
It also noted, "on occasions, interactions between staff and members have not always been constructive and respectful and, at times, have been detrimental".
The review suggested a charter explicitly governing standards of behaviour — common in other organisations — should be adopted.
It also recommended the maximum term for CPA directors be cut from nine years to six.
The final report from the review is expected to be released in December.


A new plastic 10 pound note featuring renowned author Jane Austen has gone into circulation in Britain.
Austen is the first female writer to feature on a British banknote, replacing a paper 10 pound note which featured a portrait of naturalist Charles Darwin.
The new 'tenner' is the first British banknote with a tactile feature involving a series of raised dots in the top left-hand corner to help blind and partially sighted users.
The move coincides with the 200th anniversary of the author's death and comes more than a year after Australia circulated its new $5 bank notes, whose new features also enabled vision-impaired people to read the currency.

In an address at Winchester Cathedral, Bank of England governor Mark Carney revealed why Austen had been selected.
"Austen's novels have a universal appeal and speak as powerfully today as they did when they were first published," he said.
The circulation of the new notes follows a four-month period when women, apart from the Queen, have not been represented on the Bank's notes, the BBC noted.
The last was the 5 pound note featuring reformer Elizabeth Fry, which was replaced last year by a fiver showcasing Winston Churchill.
The choice of quote was met with some confusion when it was announced.
It's a line out of Pride and Prejudice, no doubt one of Austen's most iconic works, "I declare after all there is no enjoyment like reading!".
But some Janeites were quick to point out that the quote, from Caroline Bingley, was not sincere.

Just over 1 billion of the notes have been printed and the general public should start seeing them over coming days and weeks.

The Bank of England said it would gradually start withdrawing the roughly 800 million 10 pound paper notes in circulation as they are banked by retailers and businesses.
The old notes will still be accepted in the shops until Spring 2018 with the exact date of withdrawal to be published three months in advance.
Mr Carney said banknotes serve as "repositories of the country's collective memory, promoting awareness of the United Kingdom's glorious history and highlighting the contributions of its greatest citizens."
ABC/wires


After more than 100 years of discussion around building a cable car on the mountain backdrop of Hobart, the Tasmanian Government is confident its reality is a step closer.

Legislation allowing the State Government to compulsorily acquire land from the Hobart City Council for a cable car project on Mount Wellington, also known by its Aboriginal name kunanyi, passed the Lower House on Thursday night, with the support of Labor.
The much-discussed project was stalled in approval processes by the council, prompting the Government to intervene.
Matthew Groom, Minister for State Growth, said the bill's passage was an important milestone.
"It represents the most significant step forward in allowing the public to have their say on such a project in more than 100 years," Mr Groom said.
Premier Will Hodgman said normal approval processes would still apply.
"It does not in any way allow anyone, this government or a future government to flog off public land as the Greens would assert," he said.
"If we're going to continue the growth, the sustainable growth in our tourism industry we need to continually add new attractions and new points of interest that separate Tasmania from the pack."
The bill now moves to the Legislative Council for consideration.
Proponents of the project are collecting signatures for a petition they plan to put to the Upper House in support of the project.

Opposition Leader Rebecca White was the only Labor member to speak during the debate.
"We support alternative modes of transport on Mt Wellington including a cable car," she said.
"We recognise the bill the Government has put forward doesn't dictate a particular route or a particular proponent."
Labor also called for the public road on Mt Wellington to remain open to the public and properly maintained, which the Government agreed to.
But Greens leader Cassy O'Connor said the bill set out to "commercialise wilderness".

"We won't be supporting this nasty piece of legislation which enables a land grab for a private developer at public expense," she said.
"There is nothing public about a privately owned cable car. It's a complete distortion of the intent of the Land Acquisition Act."
The Greens again raised Mr Groom's relationship with Adrian Bold, who is behind the latest push for a cable car development.
In an exchange with Ms O'Connor that prompted laughter within the chamber, Mr Groom moved to quell any concerns.
"I'll just make this point to you Ms O'Connor, you are a closer personal friend of mine than Adrian Bold," he said.
"I'm sure he wouldn't mind me saying it. I've had more private drinks with you than I have with Adrian Bold."
Ms O'Connor could be heard interjecting with the words "offensive" and "unbecoming", also taking aim at Labor's support.
The Mt Wellington Cable Car Company posted a statement on its Facebook page reacting to the bill's passage.
"We are very glad to be able to strengthen investor confidence in the project with this strong bi-partisan support," it read.
"We look forward to further support for the bill in the Legislative Council."


The Government has introduced legislation that would allow start-up Australian businesses to turn to crowdfunding to raise funds.

Crowd-sourced equity funding has so far been unregulated in Australia, stopping businesses from tapping a source of funds that could supercharge their growth.
Legislation to allow public companies, which are not ASX listed, to get involved will come into effect on September 29.
But a bill, introduced in the House of Representatives by the Treasurer Scott Morrison today, would extend the framework to cover the majority of Australian businesses that are proprietary companies.
"This will be a game-changer once again for Australian start-ups and new small businesses," Mr Morrison said.
If the changes pass Parliament, privately held companies will be able to raise up to $3 million from crowdfunding, before they become subject to a full audit.
Each investor would only be allowed to put in up to $10,000 to limit their exposure to risk.
Crowdfunding has become popular overseas with businesses, including Scottish craft beer company BrewDog, which raised more than $31 million in its latest crowdfunding campaign in the UK.
They recently convinced more than 9,000 Americans to pour in $8.7 million to fund its expansion in the United States.
To qualify for the equity crowdfunding schemes, proprietary business will need to have a minimum of two directors, make financial reports in accordance with accounting standards and abide by restrictions on related party transactions.
FinTech Australia has been working with the Government on the changes.
"It really is quite a big win for a number of the small to medium enterprises across Australia, not just the start-up community," said Danielle Szetho, FinTech Australia's CEO.
She expects larger businesses to use the model for specific projects, like launching a new store or expending overseas.
Labor has not yet decided if it will support the legislation, but said it welcomed moves to liberalise the equity crowdfunding framework.
In other changes that could help burgeoning tech businesses, the Government has moved to end the double taxation of digital currencies like Bitcoin — which would cut GST on the purchase of the currency.
However, the legislation changes have come too late for some Australian start-ups, including Tapview, which aims to facilitate small payments for online news and video.
Tapview's CEO James Jansson is launching a new product called Tapview TV, where YouTube stars could upload premium content and charge per view.
But getting to this point has been a struggle for the company.
"If you're a small company like us and you don't have a disclosure statement, you can't go out and advertise to the market," he said.
"You can't just put an ad up on Facebook and say 'hey, please invest in us', and that means that your sources of capital are quite limited."
Mr Jansson secured $100,000 funding from an accelerator program in 2016, but he wishes crowd sourced equity funding had been available.
"Companies like ours can make a lot of good things out of a very small amount of money," he said.
"So $3 million without having to go through a full audit… would improve our ability to serve our customers and survive through the very tough early stages of a start-up."


The Federal Government will be paid a substantially lower dividend from the Reserve Bank due to the value of its foreign assets being hurt by the resurgent Australian dollar over the past year.

In its annual report released this afternoon, the RBA said it would send a lighter $1.28 billion to Treasury in 2016/17 compared to $3.22 billion in the previous year.
Announcing an accounting loss of $897 million — down from $2.88 billion — RBA governor Philip Lowe blamed valuation losses on holdings of foreign assets caused by the appreciation of the Australian dollar.
Dr Lowe also pointed to the impact of low interest rates around the world and in Australia where the cash rate stands at an historic low of 1.5 per cent.
The annual report says underlying earnings at the RBA was $1 billion, with $300 million earned from capital gains.
In the annual report's forward, Dr Lowe reasserts the central bank's conservative approach to a still uncertain global economy.
"The Reserve Bank board is committed to having a strong balance sheet so that it can effectively perform its operations under a wide range of scenarios," Dr Lowe says.
"As the balance sheet has grown over recent times, there has been an increase in the share of the bank's assets that have relatively low market risk."
The annual report also reveals the Reserve Bank's spending on external consultancies was $987,388 in 2016/17 — up from $61,000 in 2009/10 at the height of the global financial crisis.

However, the report says about half of the spending was for an external review of the RBA's operations and to advise on the upgrade of Australian banknotes, with the new $5 note issued late last year.
The Reserve Bank will unveil a new $10 banknote next week.
The RBA says at the end of June there were 1.5 billion banknotes in circulation, worth $73.6 billion.
A new banknote distribution centre in Craigieburn in outer Melbourne was completed to deal with the growth of paper money in circulation, the report says.
But Dr Lowe notes the rise of the cashless society and the potential impact on traditional transactions.
"While cash is being used less in day-to-day transactions, the value of banknotes on issue relative to GDP [gross domestic product] is at its highest in more than five decades, reflecting its ongoing use as a store of value," Dr Lowe says in the report.
As governor, Dr Lowe is the highest paid of the Reserve Bank's 47 executives with a package of $930,662 comprising a base wage of $802,222 with $128,440 in employer superannuation.
Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter: @peter_f_ryan


The Federal Government's bill to change media ownership and regulation has passed the Senate 31 votes to 27.

The Government secured the support of the Nick Xenophon Team and One Nation to pass the bill.
It scraps restrictions such as the "two out of three" rule, which stops companies owning newspaper, radio and television stations in the same city.
The changes will also abolish the "reach rule", which prevented a single TV broadcaster from reaching more than 75 per cent of the population.
There will also be a change to revenue-based licence fees, which will be replaced by a lower spectrum charge.
Senator Xenophon secured an innovation package for regional and small publishers, worth $60.4 million over three years.
The fund will include money for 200 cadetships of as much as $40,000 each, as well as grants for small publishers that will be capped at $1 million.
"I see this as a down payment for the future of journalism in this country," Senator Xenophon said.
Communications Minister Mitch Fifield said the changes would help Australian media survive in the internet age.
"If you free up a little bit the media control laws that were drafted in the 1980s before the internet existed, you give the opportunity to the Australian media companies to configure themselves in ways to best support their viability," he said.
The Government had to rely on support from the crossbench because Labor did not support elements of the legislation.
As part of its agreement with the Coalition, One Nation wants an investigation into the ABC.
Speaking on RN Drive, Labor's Penny Wong accused Senator Xenophon of supporting an "attack" on the national broadcaster.
"Nick could've stopped an attack on the ABC with this legislation and he chose not to," she said.
"I think a lot of South Australians who voted for Nick, who are supporters of the ABC, will be very disappointed."
One Nation wanted the salaries of big-name ABC and SBS employees made public.
Senator Fifield said it was something he was investigating.
"We will be talking to the ABC about how they might do this and it could well require legislation but they are things we will be exploring," he said.
The media industry had been demanding the changes to reflect the changing media landscape.
In a statement, Seven West Media chairman Kerry Stokes said the changes would provide a "better future for local news and Australian stories".
"These historic changes will give Australian media companies a real opportunity to compete with unregulated global players," he said.
Seven West Media chief executive Tim Worner said the changes would allow "broadcasters and publishers to meet the increasing pace of change that we are facing".
Fairfax Media welcomed the changes, saying in a statement that it had "long supported the modernising of media laws to better reflect the current media environment".
It is widely expected the reforms will lead to mergers among large media companies, leading to some fears of reduced diversity of voices and a shrinking industry.
Free TV Chairman Harold Mitchell said while changes in the industry were likely, the diversity of voices will remain.
"It won't shrink the industry, that's not possible — the industry is alive and well," he said.
"I'd imagine a lot [of owners] are lining up now to say that it can be a little different, that might happen and come out of it — but it will go on."
Part of the Government's deal with crossbench Senator Xenophon was to launch an ACCC inquiry into the impact of the new digital environment on the media, particularly that of companies like Google and Facebook.
"I think it's absolutely necessary that we look at Google and Facebook, because in just 17 years digital advertising has gone from 0 per cent to about 40 per cent," Mr Mitchell said.
"There's the question of tax, where the information comes from, what they do in every way, and it should happen very quickly."


Tipped as the future of green motoring, hydrogen cars are virtually emissions-free and both simple and fast to refuel.
So what are they and how soon will we be driving them?
As their name suggests, they use hydrogen as a fuel to power the car.
Colourless, odourless hydrogen gas passes through a fuel stack, where it interacts with oxygen. This process both generates the electricity and creates water, which is the car's only emission and dribbles out from a little tube at the back.

Like electric cars, hydrogen cars using hybrid technology are quiet to drive. But the hydrogen models are quicker to refuel and have a longer range.
For example, the tank of Toyota's Mirai holds 5 kilograms of compressed hydrogen. The car's range has not been tested in Australia but in Europe it takes about three minutes to refuel a tank, which will last about 550 kilometres.
It's worth pointing out that hydrogen fuel cell technology is not new — NASA used them to power rockets for decades — but car manufacturers are now able to make fuel cells small and mobile enough to fit inside passenger cars.
They have the potential to be one of the cleanest cars on the road.
Their only emission is water, but the biggest hurdle to fulfilling their green potential is that the hydrogen to power the cars in Australia is now almost entirely sourced from fossil fuels, such as natural gas.

This could change if plans for a home-grown renewable hydrogen industry are successful.
It would ensure a source of hydrogen generated via renewable energy like wind or solar power.
It feels like driving a hybrid car, which is not surprising because they use similar technology.
You press a button to turn the car on and there's a barely audible hum as the motor starts.

There are only two obvious signs that it's a hydrogen car.
One is the H20 button, which prompts the purge of water from the system (this also happens automatically when the car is turned off), and the other is an interactive infographic on the dashboard which shows the chemical activity going on behind the scenes.
Your neighbour is unlikely to be pulling into their driveway in the latest hydrogen car anytime soon.
Firstly, you can't buy hydrogen cars in Australia yet. In fact, there are only four demonstration models in Australia — one owned by Hyundai and the remaining three by Toyota.
And secondly, even if you had one, you would have nowhere to refuel it.

As everyone in the industry acknowledges, the biggest impediments to widespread take-up of the cars are the sheer logistics and expense of building the refuelling infrastructure for everyday use.
For example, Toyota estimates it costs up to $2.3 million to build a medium-sized retail refuelling station in Europe or the US. The company has built itself a portable refueller, while Hyundai has one at its Sydney head office.
For these reasons, industry pundits agree it makes sense to promote hydrogen car use in densely populated areas of big cities.
Toyota's manager of advanced technology vehicles, Matthew Macleod, said there is a lot of interest from government and industry in using hydrogen to power trucks and buses which could use a common refuelling hub.
South Australia last week released its hydrogen road map, which outlines its intent to take the national lead in driving a hydrogen economy, including a $8.2m trial of a hydrogen bus fleet and refuelling station.
Western Australia trialled hydrogen buses last decade, but found it difficult to find an affordable and reliable source of hydrogen.



China's economy looks to pulling back into the slow lane after a range of data has shown a broad loss of momentum in domestic demand.

The key monthly readings on industrial production, infrastructure spending and retail sales in August were all weaker than the month before and below market expectations.
Industrial production showed a marked step-down with the output of key drivers such as electricity, steel and cement all slowing.
The manufacture of consumer items such as cars and mobile phones also fell.
Overall industrial production is now growing at its slowest pace since January, just before spending stimulus and easier credit conditions kicked in.
Softer export sales for industrial products didn't help, but Capital Economics Julian Evans Pritchard said the main culprit was weaker domestic demand.
Fixed asset investment (FAI) — a proxy for infrastructure and property spending — expanded at an annual rate of 8.3 per cent during the first eight months of a year.
But taking into account the spurt in FAI earlier in the year, Mr Evans-Pritchard says the data implies a slowdown from 6.8 per cent annual growth in July to less than 5 per cent last month.
There was a slight pick-up in manufacturing and property investment, but that was more than outweighed by a pull-back in spending on big infrastructure projects.

The pace of retail sales slowed noticeably as well, particularly in the automotive sector, along with sales of products linked to the property cycle including furniture, decorating materials and whitegoods.
Mr Evans-Pritchard said the upshot is that both foreign and domestic demand appear to be softening.
"In particular, infrastructure spending has now begun to cool as the front-loading of fiscal spending this year means that local governments are now having to pair back their outlays," he said.
"With tighter monetary conditions still weighing on credit growth, we expect a further slowdown in economic activity in coming quarters."
August
(MoM percentage change)
July
(MoM percentage change)
Market forecast
(MoM percentage change)
8.3pc (year-to-date)


Clive Palmer has called himself as a witness in a Supreme Court battle with a liquidator trying to claw back money owed to sacked Queensland Nickel workers.
Government-appointed liquidators PPB Advisory is trying to freeze hundreds of millions of dollars of the former federal MP's assets,
Liquidators are concerned Mr Palmer's assets were being offloaded, given the recent sale of his Brisbane headquarters Mineralogy House, worth $23 million.
Queensland Nickel collapsed in 2016 with $300 million in debts, leaving more than 800 people out of work.
Mr Palmer is representing himself before Justice John Bond in the Supreme Court, but has hired barristers to represent his various companies.
When Justice Bond asked if anyone was calling Mr Palmer as a witness, Mr Palmer responded: "I am going to call myself."
He was cross-examined by barrister Shane Doyle QC, acting for the liquidators, over the events leading up to the collapse of the Townsville refinery, placed into voluntary administration in January last year.
Mr Palmer suggested he was "asleep" when administrators were appointed.
"Are you seriously suggesting … administrators were called in to QNI [Queensland Nickel], because of its insolvency, without your knowledge?" Mr Doyle said.
Mr Palmer replied: "The appointment of the administrators took place while I was asleep in bed, sleeping."
Mr Doyle then warned him about his evidence: "Be careful, Mr Palmer."
Mr Palmer said his nephew, Clive Mensink, and executive Daren Wolfe were at his house when he went to sleep.
"I went to bed around 9 o'clock and they continued through the night," Mr Palmer said.
Mr Doyle asked: "Did you know administrators were going to be appointed?"
Mr Palmer responded: "No."
Mr Doyle also accused Mr Palmer of giving untruthful evidence when he appeared to contradict what he had said in a sworn affidavit tendered to the court.
"You are not giving truthful evidence," Mr Doyle said.
"That's my recollection. It is what it is," Mr Palmer replied
Mr Palmer also cross-examined Campbell Jaski, a partner at PPB Advisory, who was the first witness to take the stand.
Mr Jaski valued the Queensland Nickel refinery for the liquidators.
The hearing is expected to run over two days.


Regional cinemas are struggling to keep the golden age of the movie experience alive, and they say Hollywood is to blame.
After an influx of films and patronage over the school holidays, the purse strings at local cinemas will again be tightened, with measures such as reduced screening sessions and closing through the middle of the day.
Independent Cinemas Australia president Scott Seddon said regional cinemas were not alone, with cinema attendance dropping internationally.
"We are all experiencing the same hit to the industry," he said.
"Recent figures have demonstrated that summer releases in America have gone pot. [Box office] was down by 6 per cent, which is a bit of a dive.
"Hollywood is learning that franchises can't be pushed out every 12 months. It's a learning curve as the market changes."
Andrew Mercado recently purchased the historic South West Roxy Cinema on the New South Wales north coast.
"It's problematic to schedule for teenagers. They are too caught up in devices so there is no guarantee. My priority is my retiree audience," he said.

Mr Mercado said Hollywood was largely to blame for falling cinema attendances.

"[Hollywood] have been relying too much on easy fixes like sequels and franchises. Originality is at an all-time low," he said.
"You can only do that for so long before the audience says 'That's enough'. It's just laziness.
"When we can do so much of this in our homes, Hollywood needs to catch up and give people value for money the moment they leave the house."
Mr Mercado said the recently released Dunkirk film, directed by Christopher Nolan, was a reminder cinemas would survive — it was made for the big screen and audiences flocked to see it.
Mr Seddon agreed, saying audiences responded positively to original content.
"That's one movie that really needs to be seen in the cinema," he said.
"Dunkirk was a really different approach to filmmaking, quite unique, and people really responded to that movie."
David McGowen, owner of the Plaza Theatre at Laurieton, south of Port Macquarie, hopes to remind audiences of the glory days of picture palaces.
"We have to keep it alive for the older generation who lived through it like I did, and they appreciate it," he said.

"I think of my cinema as an opportunity for people to come along on the ride with me."
With his cinema decorated with décor from cinemas around Queensland, Mr McGowen hopes to provide his audience with an alternative to streaming at home.
"I like to think people choose to come here as a total escape," he said.
However, Mr McGowen said technology and demand for constant entertainment was providing a new challenge for cinema owners.

"We move in different times now. Studios call films 'content' entertainment," he said.
"The magic of movies in the modern world has gone, and there's only a handful of us in Australia fighting to keep it alive."
ICA's Mr Seddon said passion is the key to keeping the cinema industry afloat.
"From the script to the cleaner, those who stick to the industry are the ones who are most passionate about it," he said.
"It's not an industry with huge financial gain, the people who are in the independent cinema industry are truly passionate."
Mr McGowen said Hollywood studios needed to take risks in productions in order to bring audiences back to the silver screen.
"We have Baz Luhrmann. He will bring back the glitz and glamour of the film industry," he said.
"But he is only one person. Most [producers] find those films too risky."
Mr McGowen said streaming and home entertainment would see the end of traditional picture houses.
"I think the bricks and mortar of cinemas will go. The current theatrical exhibition model is outdated due to the internet," he said.
However, with a passion for theatre and the cinematic experience, Mr McGowen has no intention letting the credits roll on his cinema story.
"The Plaza Theatre will be open as long as I am alive."

Donald Howard built Fay's Twin Cinema in Taree from the ground up in memory of his late wife.
Mr Howard has had a passion for film and cinematography since he was eight years old.
"I can remember rooting around in the garbage looking for snippets of film, and looking up at the light and wondering how is that magic done," he said.
"I would go to the cinema three or four times a week, collecting cordial bottles and cashing them in to buy a movie ticket."

He has worked in the industry ever since.
Fay's Twin Cinema opened with E.T., The Man from Snowy River, and Peter Pan in 1982.
Mr Howard said he had remained in the industry through multiple technology advancements, but the current cinema climate was a concern.
"In the last six weeks [as Dunkirk wound down], the movie business has taken a tumble. [The movie] IT is currently stacking people in, but I don't expect it to remain," he said.
"With Netflix and other things around, we are taking a dive."
Mr Howard said cinemas in regional Australia were most at risk of closure.
"To run cinemas you have to be dedicated. I expect to see a close of cinemas in the western cities of New South Wales. Coasts will survive thanks to tourism," he said.
However, he felt streaming was just the latest trend.
"I liken it to the time when we would press our faces into shop windows to look at TV sets, then colour TV in the 70s … that was just the new trend," he said.
"The truth of the matter with streaming, yes it allows us to sit at home, but it will return to cinema and the need for a big screen fix."



Imagine knowing a major Game of Thrones spoiler eight months before everyone else.
That was the reality for hundreds of staff at Australian visual effects firm Iloura, who were tasked with bringing to life a key battle scene in the latest season of the global phenomenon.
WARNING: IF YOU'RE NOT UP-TO-DATE ON GAME OF THRONES, THERE ARE SPOILERS AHEAD.
The epic scene in episode four, called The Loot Train, was brought to life by hundreds of staff over seven months.
They added fire, smoke, horses and people to hundreds of shots — though a different firm handled the dragons.

Visual effects (VFX) supervisor Glenn Melenhorst said it was time-consuming and sometimes tedious work.
"People who don't know our industry, they don't realise that a shot goes along a production line of different talents," he said.
"So there's people who only model objects in 3D and there's people who put texture and surfacing on them, or people who groom the hairs on the horses or people who build clothing and simulate clothing, and then there's people who actually animate and people who light.
"So one shot will come in and there'll be 20 or 30 steps before it's out the other side."

He said one of the toughest things to replicate was fire.
"Things like fire and water, any natural phenomena, take a lot of disc space to simulate and store but they also take a long time to calculate," Mr Melenhorst said.
"You don't just paint fire, you actually deal with fuel and vortices and heat and all those things.
"So they have to tweak all these settings and there can be thousands of these settings to get a certain type of fire and that can take two or three days sometimes."
Mr Melenhorst also said that given the show's trademark gore, his team had to do some gruesome research.
"A real hallmark of what we were doing was trying to show horses falling in ways that they wouldn't naturally, which felt more painful," he said.
"So you end up looking at a lot of YouTube clips of horrible accidents and steeple chase accidents and it's pretty grisly.
"We actually have to do some pretty grisly stuff in our job in order to study what's required for the nasty stuff. Wound research is never fun."
Last season the company was tasked with bringing to life the bloody Battle of the Bastards scene at the heart of the most expensive Game of Thrones episode ever.
Mr Melenhorst said it could be a burden to know key plot twists before anyone else.

"Knowing Jon Snow was alive eight months before anybody else did, you know, that's a burdensome thing to sort of carry with you," he said.
"But you know you have to and you can't tell anybody because you can't trust anybody not to have a lapse, so you just have to stay quiet on it."
All staff at Iloura had to sign hefty non-disclosure agreements and the company submits to regular security audits by the studios they work with.
VFX supervisor Josh Simmonds said it was an important part of being entrusted with such sensitive information.
"It's hugely controlled. A lot of our internet is completely locked down here," he said.
"And more often than not, we'll get given a script outline or a section of animation to give us an idea of what we're working with, but it's solely the section that we're working on so we don't necessarily understand the story arc."

Game of Thrones airs in 170 countries with a global audience of millions.
It has the enviable record for most Emmys ever won by a prime-time show and the unenviable title of the most pirated show ever.
Thanks to technology, the tyranny of distance hasn't held back the Australian visual effects firm.
Mr Simmonds said the show's directors do daily reviews of Iloura's progress, using programs to synchronise what both parties are watching on opposite sides of the world.
"We Skype with our clients daily but then there are people in LA who Skype with other people in LA because they can't be bothered with the traffic," he said.
Mr Melenhorst said working in the film and television industry no longer means moving to Hollywood.
"The film industry before the internet wasn't really viable in Melbourne, because data wasn't able to be transferred easily," he said.
"Since the advent of the internet and the ability to pipe information anywhere, it's made what was an essentially unachievable career achievable for us."


A decision to award a Tasmanian employee more than $8,000 after being sacked for calling in sick with a hangover sends a "confusing message" to employers, Launceston's Chamber of Commerce says.
A decision last week by the Fairwork Commission ruled Tassal employee Avril Chapman's sacking was valid but harsh and awarded her $8,229 in compensation.
Ms Chapman left the following message with her employer on April 25 this year:
"Hi Michelle, it's Avril one of your most loved pains in the arse.
"Um, its ANZAC day, my birthday, and I admit I have over-indulged so I'm taking into account one of the golden rules be fit for work and I'm not going to be fit for work so I won't be there. But um love ya, catch ya on the flip side."
In its decision, the commission said the conduct of the employee was not in dispute and the reason for dismissing Ms Chapman was valid.
However, she was awarded $8,229 compensation because the termination was considered to be harsh.
Ms Chapman, who was employed in a Tassal fish factory for five years, was accused by the company of  "using a golden safety rule to excuse or justify her behaviour in consuming alcohol to an extent that she anticipated she would be unable to work the next day."
Ms Chapman said it was fatigue which led to the phone call because she felt she was not able to fulfil her role at work safely.
The commission found there was a valid reason for dismissal, saying she "placed herself voluntarily in a position where she was unable to work by reason of the consumption of alcohol."
"This was in circumstances where she could have gone to bed early to sleep and put herself in a position to work," the commission found.
The commission said her conduct led to her own downfall but the company had "misused a prior warning as a reason to proceed to termination rather than a less severe sanction."

The Launceston Chamber of Commerce's Chief Executive Officer Neil Grose said the decision was confusing for employers.
"There's certainly a lot of mixed messages coming from the Fair Work Commission with a decision like this," he said.
"On one hand the commission says that the company acted properly in dismissing the employee, but on the other hand awards over $8,000 because they saw the decision as being harsh."
Mr Grose said awarding compensation was inappropriate if an employer has acted appropriately.
"Our understanding is that there had been a history of this sort of behaviour, that the employee in question had been counselled before and had received a warning before," he said.
"Either the dismissal is unfair or it's not, and clearly it wasn't unfair because the commission agreed that she should've been dismissed, but then to award such a large payment on top of that is something the chamber finds very inappropriate."


Up to 100 flights in and out of Sydney Airport are cancelled and dozens more are delayed as wind gusts hit the runways.

The airport and airlines have not stated how long it will take to clear the backlog, but passengers at the airport told the ABC that airlines had said it might take days for them to get another flight.
Only one of three runways was operating at Australia's busiest airport due to gusts of nearly 60 kilometres per hour.
The winds are only affecting domestic flights. International flights are running as usual.

Air Services Australia warned there will be more flight cancellations later on Thursday due to the strong cross winds.
"A single runway is operating due to strong, gustily crosswinds and that's forecast to last until [the airport's] curfew tonight at 11:00pm," a spokeswoman said.
Rosemary Barr from the Bureau of Meteorology said the winds would continue into the evening.
"We do tend to see variability in wind speed so they may abate and develop but we do expect the general strength of the wind to maintain for the next few hours into the evening," he said.
Sarah Fulton from Air Services Australia said passengers should check their flight status with airlines before going to the airport.
"At this stage there is a slight improvement on conditions [tomorrow], but we will work with airlines to help passengers get to where they need to get to," she said.
Qantas, Virgin, Jetstar, Tiger and REX were scrambling to reschedule passengers in and out of Sydney.
John and Margaret Morris were heading to Adelaide to catch a paddle steamer to celebrate their 50th wedding anniversary when their flight to Adelaide was cancelled.

The pair, from the Hunter region, said they had called up the airline yesterday to confirm their flights but had no such courtesy in return.
"Nobody let us know by phone or anything that it has been cancelled," Mr Morris said.
The octogenarians were in good spirits and hopeful their rebooked flight, scheduled for after 8:00pm, would be able to depart.
"You've just got to roll with the punches," Mr Morris said.
Wollongong family Kim, Anabelle and Mia Fingland, were going to be heading to Queensland for a surf competition before their flights were cancelled.
The youngest, Mia, seemed more excited about their alternative travel arrangements.
"We're going to stay in a hotel in Bondi," she said.
Several sporting teams traveling on flights to and from the Harbour City for finals clashes, including NRL outfit Penrith and AFL teams West Coast and Sydney Swans, were not affected by the delays.


Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull has again told the NT Chief Minister to "pull the trigger" on gas mining in an effort to persuade him to lift the current ban on fracking.
Last night, Mr Turnbull used a speech at an expo promoting Northern Australia in Canberra to reiterate a position he made clear during a recent visit to Darwin.
NT Chief Minister Michael Gunner was among business and political representatives from Northern Australia who were in the audience when the Prime Minister delivered his speech.
"There's a lot of gas in the North, Michael," he said.
"Pull the trigger, Gunner. Pull the trigger.
"We need that gas down here ... there is not enough supply and we need more of that gas."
The NT Labor Government put a 12-month moratorium on fracking in September 2016 and will decide whether to lift the ban when the findings of a fracking inquiry are delivered.
Mr Gunner and Minister for Indigenous Affairs, Nigel Scullion, spoke before the Prime Minister, and used the platform to talk about partnering with the Commonwealth and the potential in the North.
"Half of the nation's exports come from the north of Australia and we have 5 per cent of the population," Mr Gunner said.
"Imagine what we could do with more people.

"We are rich in culture, we are rich in land and we are rich in potential and we the NT want to work with you here in Canberra and those across the country to embrace all that we have and all that we can be."
In his speech, Mr Turnbull said he hoped Mr Gunner decided to allow mining in the vast and untapped gas fields that gas companies have said exist in the NT.
"I hope he is moving sedately but purposely and irreversibly towards opening up that big shoal gas province in the Northern Territory," Mr Turnbull said.
He said lifting the ban would bring benefits to southern, eastern and northern markets.
"There is a lot of good news associated with shale gas and having more of that available in the Territory and across Australia will be enormously important," he said.
"While obviously a lot of that will come south and to the east coast and southern markets, there is the opportunity to do a lot with it in the Northern Territory as well.
"Affordable gas has been a driver of jobs. It has been a driver of manufacturing. It actually is a driver of lower emissions too."
It is not the first time the Northern Territory's energy policy has been criticised by the Prime Minister.
In a speech at the Country Liberals annual conference in Darwin on Saturday, Mr Turnbull said the Northern Territory was at risk of squandering its "immense" resource opportunities.
"My message to Michael Gunner is: pull the trigger, get on with it," Mr Turnbull said in that speech.
"The jobs, the investment, the opportunities that come with opening up 180 years of gas that you're sitting on is endless."
Like other leaders, Opposition Leader Bill Shorten did not chime into the gas debate, but instead gave advice on the need to develop air, road and tourism infrastructure in the Northern Territory.
"You don't need lectures from fly-in, fly-out politicians on day trips to the Territory, what you want is long-term commitment," he said.
"We get that the Territory has got a future but we also understand that the Territory is not looking for a handout, what it says is that it just wants its fair share of faith and passion for the Territory."


Australia's unemployment rate has held steady at 5.6 per cent in August, due to the creation of more than 54,000 jobs, most of them full-time.

The Bureau of Statistics estimated that 40,100 full-time positions were added to the economy last month, with a further 14,100 part-time jobs also created, seasonally adjusted.
The level of job creation was more than three times higher than what was expected by most economists, pushing the Australian dollar back above 80 US cents upon its 11:30am (AEST) release.
"Employment growth has been phenomenal and there has been a gradual tightening in the labour market," noted Commonwealth Bank economist Gareth Aird.
The reason the strong job creation did not lower the jobless rate from 5.6 per cent is that the ABS survey also recorded an increase in the proportion of people aged over 15 in work or looking for it — the participation rate — to 65.3 per cent.
That is the highest participation rate in almost five years.
The federal Employment Minister Michaela Cash said a lot of the increase was due to a record number of women entering the workforce.
"As the Minister for Women, I am delighted the female participation rate has hit an all-time high of 60 per cent," she told reporters.
"There are now more females participating in the workforce than at any other time in Australia's history, in excess of 3 million."

Despite the increase in full-time work and the participation rate, the ABS only recorded a 0.4 per cent increase in total hours worked last month.
The Bureau of Statistics prefers to look at the more stable trend figures and, on that basis, its chief economist Bruce Hockman noted in the report that the August numbers continue a recent move towards stronger growth in full-time employment.
"Full-time employment has now increased by around 253,000 persons since August 2016, and makes up the majority of the 307,000 person increase in employment over the period," he wrote.
The employment-to-population ratio has also risen to a four-and-a-half-year high, as job creation exceeded population growth.
On a seasonally-adjusted basis, the quarterly underemployment rate has eased from a record high of 8.9 per cent in February to 8.6 per cent in August.
However, Mr Hockman said underemployment — which is where workers want and are available for more hours of work — is still at a record high level in trend terms.
"The underemployment rate is an important indicator of the spare capacity of workers in Australia, and it has remained at 8.7 per cent, a historical high, for the third consecutive quarter," he noted.

Underemployment is much more common amongst female workers, where the trend level is 10.8 per cent, versus 6.9 per cent for men.
Economists are concerned about the persistently high underemployment rate — which is around a percentage point above global financial crisis levels — because the pool of workers who want more hours continue to put downward pressure on wage growth, which is at its lowest level since the last recession.

Paul Dales from Capital Economics said the underutilisation rate — which combines the unemployment and underemployment rates — fell from 14.4 per cent in May to 14.1 per cent in August.
"But it needs to fall to around 12 per cent before we can say that there is a 'normal' amount of spare capacity in the labour market," he wrote in a note.
"As such, while faster employment growth will put more money in households' pockets, it probably won't translate into much faster wage growth."
CBA's Gareth Aird agrees, but said several more months of data like these could turn the economic and interest rate outlook on its head.
"Despite the solid jobs growth, we think that we are still some way from labour market slack being eroded sufficiently to put genuine upward pressure on wages. As such, we have the RBA on hold until late 2018," he wrote.
"However, with each robust monthly employment report the risk of a rate hike before late 2018 inches higher."


Department store Myer has delivered a threadbare full-year profit of just $11.9 million as top-line sales slipped and the company was forced to take a knife to a number of investments.

The result was 80 per cent down on last year's profit, while underlying earnings — excluding one off gains and losses — of $67.9 million dropped 2 per cent and fell short of analyst expectations.
Sales revenue fell 1.4 per cent to $3.2 billion, however it was a number of impairment charges that really ravaged the bottom line.
The recently acquired sass & bide fashion range again recorded disappointing sales and its book value was written down by $39 million.
Myer has also written off the entire value of its $6.8 million investment in Australia, which operated the Topshop chain and was put into administration in May.
Myer chief executive Richard Umbers said it was disappointing to have hit the target of beating last year's underlying earnings and that progress against key measures was slower than anticipated.
However he said a number of initiatives — such as store closures and investments in online sales — had made Myer leaner and a more efficient retailer.
"We have made significant progress to deliver New Myer, which as assisted the company to withstand the challenging retail trading conditions characterised by heightened competition, subdues consumer sentiment and discount fatigue," he said.
Department stores have been the most brutalised sector within retail by tumbling consumer sentiment with ABS figures showing sales having fallen in 11 of the past 13 months.
While talking up "New Myer", Mr Umbers revealed to The Business that the retailer was holding a strategy day on November 1 to review its turnaround strategy.
"The reason we're doing that is because, since the strategy launched, there have been many changes in the marketplace," he said.
"The consumer environment has changed, the market has changed and the competitive environment has changed also.
"We still believe that the strategy is the right one, but what we also talked about today is the changing emphasis of the business to respond to that changing marketplace."
Mr Umbers said Myer will "double down" on its "omnichannel" efforts to integrate online and in-store shopping, and also focus on fresh ways to get more people to come in store through expanded "experiential retailing".
Myer has accelerated its downsizing announcing it would not be renewing leases at Hornsby, Belconnen in the ACT and the Colonnades centre in Adelaide on top this year's closure of three stores at Orange, Brookside and Wollongong.
In addition it has handed back floorspace to landlords in another four stores.
That brings the total loss of space in the past two years to almost 7.5 hectares — or the equivalent of four MCGs.

However Myer appears to be gaining traction in its online sales, which grew by more than 40 per cent and now represent 8 per cent of all sales.
Mr Umbers noted the first six weeks of the 2018 financial year have also been below expectation, but the company was well placed to pick up in the significant spring racing and Christmas trading periods.

"[The] consensus for underlying net profit after tax in 2018 of $66 million already factors in a subdued start to the year," Mr Umber said.
It also signals the market expects another year of lower profitability.
Myer will pay a full-year dividend of 5 cents a share, the same as last year but slightly lower than expected.
Investors were relieved that things were not worse and at 11:30am (AEST) share were up almost 3 per cent to 74 cents.


Former pharmaceuticals company CEO Martin Shkreli has had his bail revoked over a threat made against Hillary Clinton and will sit behind bars ahead of sentencing for securities fraud.

In a Facebook post last week Shkreli encouraged people to grab samples of Hillary Clinton's hair and said he would pay them $US5,000 ($6,262) per sample.
"The Clinton Foundation is willing to KILL to protect its secrets. So on HRC's book tour, try to a grab a hair from her. I must confirm the sequences I have," Shkreli said in the since deleted post.
A judge heard arguments about whether the controversial online antics of Shkreli, dubbed the Pharma Bro, were bad enough to put him behind bars and decided to have him taken into custody immediately.
Prosecutors said the posting prompted the Secret Service to use more resources because it ran the risk many of Shkreli's social media followers would think he was serious and that he should await sentencing behind bars.
A defence attorney argued in court papers that Shkreli's offer was merely a tasteless joke comparable to some of US President Donald Trump's derisive comments, not a threat worthy of putting him behind bars.
"Indeed, in the current political climate, dissent has unfortunately often taken the form of political satire, hyperbole, parody or sarcasm," wrote the lawyer, Ben Brafman.
"There is a difference, however, between comments that are intended to threaten or harass and comments — albeit offensive ones — that are intended as political satire or strained humour."
The Clinton offer could be viewed as "a solicitation of an assault", judge Kiyo Matsumoto said before revoking Shkreli's $US5 million bail.
"This is not protected by the First Amendment," she said.
"There's a risk that somebody may take him up on it."
The Government had told the judge the message had alarmed the Secret Service detail that protects Mrs Clinton, a Democratic former presidential candidate and first lady.

It also argued that it fit a pattern of veiled threats against female journalists who rebuffed Shkreli's social media advances and of taunts aimed at prosecutors in his case.
Shkreli on Monday wrote to the court apologising for his behaviour, saying: "I am not a violent person."
But for Ms Matsumoto it was too little, too late.
"He should apologise to the Government, the Secret Service and Hillary Clinton," she said
Shkreli watched in silence as the hearing unfolded and sometimes put his head down and appeared to scribble notes.
After the judge's ruling, he remained expressionless as deputy US marshals led him out a side door of the courtroom without handcuffing him.
Shkreli, who is best known for hiking up the price of a life-saving drug and for trolling his critics on social media, was found guilty last month on charges, unrelated to the price-fixing scandal, that he cheated investors in two failed hedge funds he ran.
The defence had argued investors got their original investments back and even made hefty profits.
Shkreli has said he felt "exonerated" despite his conviction and thought there was a "50-50 chance" he would not face any punishment. He chatted with fans on his YouTube channel and sparred with a reporter after last month's verdict.
"In sum and substance," he said, "I feel exonerated."
AP


The Australian share market is set to open flat, ahead of the August job figures.

The local bourse may follow a positive lead from Wall Street, which edged marginally higher to close at fresh records for a second straight day.
Sell-offs in most stock sectors drove the S&P 500 and Nasdaq into negative territory for much of the trading day.
But the two major indexes managed to post minor gains in the final ten minutes of trade — enough to carve out record closes.
Since Apple's launch of its new iPhones on Wednesday, the company's share price has dropped 0.75 per cent to $US159.65, which weighed on the technology sector.
Despite most US sectors being sold off, energy stocks rose following a rebound in oil prices.
Brent crude surged by 1.5 per cent to a five-week high after the International Energy Agency (IEA) reported on Wednesday that the global oil surplus is beginning to shrink.
This was due to stronger-than-expected European and US demand growth and production declines (for the first time in four months) from OPEC and non-OPEC countries, according to the IEA.
The IEA said global oil output fell by 0.72 million barrels per day in August. The reason for that was unplanned outages and scheduled maintenance in OPEC member Libya, and non-OPEC countries including Russia, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan.
Another reason for the bullish trading is that the "Trump trade" seems to be back — particularly after comments made by US Treasury secretary Steve Mnuchin on Tuesday.
Mr Mnuchin said he was "incredibly hopeful" that a "competitive" tax rate for businesses would be introduced by the end of this year.
Since President Donald Trump took office investors have been hoping his much-touted corporate tax cuts would become law.
However, their optimism had waned in recent months due to the Trump administration's inability to overcome party infighting, and its repeated failure to repeal Obamacare.
The ASX SPI futures were up by just 1 point. Coupled with Wall Street's fairly flat close, this suggests a subdued open for Australian shares.
The big item on today's economic agenda is the August labour force report from the Bureau of Statistics.
Ecomists polled by  are expecting the unemployment rate to remain steady at 5.6 per cent with 15,000 new jobs to be created (which is not as high as July's figure of 27,900).
But that forecast differs depending on who you ask.
Deutsche Bank and NAB economists are expecting 20,000 new jobs and a steady unemployment rate.
The August employment data will also contain figures on underemployment, which has been stuck near record highs this year.
Australia's major trading partner, China, will also release its August figures for fixed asset investment, retail sales and industrial production.
"We think the data will likely simply confirm the picture of mildly slowing growth," said NAB currency strategist Rodrigo Catril.
Retail giant Myer will release its full-year results this morning.
The market expectation is for Myer to post an underlying profit of around $70 million, weighed down by substantial write-downs on certain fashion labels.


The wife of the bankrupt founder of the Nant whisky and angus cattle investment schemes will be interviewed by the corporate watchdog as part of an ongoing investigation into the saga, the ABC's Background Briefing has learned.

Margaret Batt, who replaced her husband Keith Batt as a director of various Nant businesses before he declared himself bankrupt in late 2015, was told on Tuesday that she would have to answer questions from the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) in Brisbane.
It is understood that ASIC, which declined to comment, is trying to establish whether any alleged offences raised in complaints from angry investors potentially amount to breaches of the Corporations Act.
Almost 900 investors purchased barrels of whisky from Nant after commercial production began at a distillery in Bothwell, north of Hobart, in 2008.
The barrels, which cost up to $14,000 each, were stored on site in a bonded warehouse until the whisky contained within them reached maturity — a process that was expected to take four years.
In an era of low interest rates, Nant promised to then buy the barrels back from investors and reward them with a generous return of 9.55 per cent each year.
The angus cattle scheme was based on a very similar model. Investors paid $30,000 for a herd of 10 black breeding cows and were told they would receive the same return when they sold them back to Nant five years later.
But both schemes have been beset with problems. Hundreds of investors, numerous suppliers, the Australian Tax Office, and even a famous former Australian cricketer together lost millions of dollars.

"On the face of it, you couldn't think of a more diverse set of investments," said financial advisor and commentator Scott Pape, better known as The Barefoot Investor.
"You've got whisky, you've got farmland, you've got cows — come to think of it, I've pretty much described my old man's dream retirement but it was a nightmare for anyone that invested in this."
The first sign of trouble came in December, 2015, when the founder of the Nant businesses, Keith Batt, declared himself bankrupt, owing more than $16 million after a series of failed property ventures in Brisbane. He had earlier removed himself as a director of the Nant operation.
Then, in March this year, an audit of the whisky barrels stored on the Nant estate in Bothwell found more than 700 were apparently never filled, some were missing, and others had been secretly decanted, bottled, and sold to the public.
The audit was carried out by the publicly listed Australian Whisky Holdings, which initiated a takeover of Nant last October before subsequently abandoning the idea.
The company instead purchased only the Nant name and the distilling assets. It is continuing to produce whisky on the Bothwell estate.

Amidst all this worrying news, cattle investors like Raja Barua from Melbourne had no idea what had happened to their cows.
The 48-year-old said police from the Stock and Rural Crime Investigation Squad in Longreach in Queensland's central-west recently told him they had managed to locate some of the animals.
But officers have so far been unable to confirm whether any of them belong to him. That's despite Nant promising to tag the cows and assign to each of them a unique identification number.
"I'm just presuming and hoping that my 10 cattle are among those that have been found," Mr Barua said.
According to brochures promoting the investment scheme, Nant was keeping the cattle on a property in Augathella.
But Background Briefing understands they are now on a different property in Inglewood in the state's southern inland.
In June, the Brisbane Magistrates Court issued Mr Batt with an $800 fine for failing to update the National Livestock Identification System.
Queensland's Office of Fair Trading is conducting its own investigation into the Angus cattle scheme at the request of the state attorney-general Yvette D'ath.
Meanwhile, as revealed by Background Briefing in August, the fraud squad at Tasmania Police has launched a criminal investigation into the whisky barrel investment scheme.



Australia's media industry looks set for a major shake-up, after the Federal Government finally struck a deal to pass a suite of changes.

The Coalition has been negotiating with the Senate crossbench over the proposal for weeks, and has now managed to hammer out a final agreement.
Under the changes the two-out-of-three rule will be scrapped, allowing a company to own a TV station, newspaper and radio station in a single market.
The "reach rule", which prevented a single TV broadcaster from reaching more than 75 per cent of the population, will also go.
There will also be a change to revenue-based licence fees, which will be replaced by a lower spectrum charge.
Key to the passage of the legislation has been the support of senator Nick Xenophon and his team.
Senator Xenophon said the negotiations were "the most difficult and protracted" he had ever been involved in, but key to his support was a fund for regional journalism.
"I and my colleagues welcome the Government's commitment to implement a regional and small publishers jobs and innovation package worth $60.4 million over three years," he said.
The fund will include money for 200 cadetships of as much as $40,000 each, as well as grants for small publishers that will be capped at $1 million.


Larger media companies like Newscorp and Fairfax will be ineligible to access the fund.
Senator Xenophon said he had also secured a deal for an ACCC inquiry into the impact of platforms like Google and Facebook on the media industry.
Debate went late into last night, and there could be a final vote by the end of the week.
Communications Minister Mitch Fifield said the reforms were essential.
"We have the support of essentially the entire Australian media industry," he said.
It has been a protracted negotiation process as Labor was opposed to elements of the legislation.
The Coalition had to strike a deal with Pauline Hanson's One Nation party, which wants an investigation into the ABC.
Senator Fifield said the national broadcaster will be subject to a "competitive neutrality inquiry".
"Whether a government organisation is using its status in a way to compete in a way that isn't reasonable with commercial organisations," he said.

The Minister rejected suggestions that One Nation was attacking the ABC.
"What we have agreed and what we will seek to pursue in relation to the ABC are measures to enhance the ABC," Senator Fifield said.
The measures that relate to the public broadcaster will be dealt with in a separate piece of legislation.
There will also be a requirement for the ABC to have a reference to "rural and regional" in its charter as well as two people on the ABC board with a rural or regional background.


Carina Gabb felt trapped. In 2014, she paid $21,000 to join a timeshare scheme she thought would guarantee cheap international holidays for the rest of her life.

But three years since she signed on the dotted line with timeshare giant Classic Holidays, she had not gone on a single trip.
"We were ripped off," she told 7.30.
"They've taken our money, they've not provided us what they've promised us. They mislead us."
Ms Gabb is among a growing number of consumers who say timeshare operators are behaving unethically, and are offering a products that simply are not value for money.
She says she was told during a Classic Holidays sales seminar that after paying her joining fee, she would be able to book a four-week holiday to the United States for less than $4,000.
But she says when she received her membership details and logged on to book the trip on the Classic Holidays system, she was quoted $8,000.
"My heart sank. I felt betrayed," she said.
After a flood of complaints, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) is now considering introducing tougher rules to protect Australia's 175,000 timeshare members.
The regulator is conducting a review of the sector, and has asked consumer groups and the industry for input on what changes are needed.
"We've received complaints about people being lured in to [timeshare] seminars really under false pretences," Katherine Temple from the Consumer Action Law Centre said.
"What people find once they arrive at these seminars is that they're subject to very high-pressure sales tactics and they feel a lot of pressure to sign up to what is essentially a very poor value product.
"And, really, those practices are disgraceful and we would like to see them stopped."

The Australian Timeshare and Holiday Ownership Council (ATHOC) is contributing the review, but it has warned ASIC against making drastic changes.
"We do hope ... that full and complete consideration has been given to the effect any changes may have on existing timeshare owners and the future growth of the industry which currently contributes more than $692.5M annually directly into the Australian economy," ATHOC's general manager Laura Younger said in a statement.
The timeshare industry has evolved significantly since the early holiday ownership schemes started to emerge in Australian in the 1970s.
Under early schemes, members would pay for access to a particular property for a number of weeks each year.
Australia's biggest timeshare providers, which include Classic Holidays, Accor Vacation Club, Ulitiqa and Wyndham Vacaton Resorts, now offer points-based schemes.
Under most schemes, members pay a joining fee in return for an annual allocation of points — which can be used to purchase accommodation in Australia and overseas.
For higher-end trips, members have to pay to buy extra points.
Consumer group Choice argues that points-based programs "hide the poor value of schemes".
It says many consumers would be better off booking holidays themselves.
"Points schemes appear to be deliberately complex," Choice said in its submission to ASIC's review.
However, Ms Younger said there was no sign that members were unhappy with points-based schemes.
"There are more than 81,000 owners participating in points-based clubs within Australia who regularly use their points for holidays which is testament to the popularity of this product," she said.
"Owners in points-based clubs have increased flexibility and can use their points for both accommodation as well as cruises, car hire, airfares or other holiday related purposes."
Ms Gabb has tried repeatedly to cancel her Classic Holidays membership, but there is no exit clause in her contract.
The contract requires her to pay an annual membership fee for 80 years — until she is 110 years old.
However, after being contacted by 7.30, Classic Holidays said it had cancelled her membership because of unpaid annual fees.
Ms Gabb said she had not received any notification that her membership was cancelled.
Classic Holildays denied Ms Gabb was misled at its sales seminar, saying that the price quoted for the US trip was not all-inclusive.


Whistleblowers should be financially rewarded for speaking up about misconduct, fraud or corruption across both public and private sectors, a parliamentary inquiry recommends.

Current and former staff who put their jobs on the line by speaking up should also be guarded by the establishment of a Whistleblower Protection Authority, according to a joint committee report into whistleblower protections released late on Wednesday.
The new authority would support whistleblowers, assess whistleblowing allegations and conduct investigations into reprisals against staff.
It would also have the powers of an investigative agency with powers to undertake criminal investigations and to refer cases to the Australian Federal Police.
Other recommendations include extending current whistleblower legislation to the private sector and broadening the definition of whistleblowing to current and former staff who make a disclosure and those suspected of making a disclosure.
Financial rewards for whistleblowers would be a proportion of any penalty imposed against an employer or as a result of an investigation initiated by whistleblowing, the inquiry recommends.
The level of reward would be determined by a court taking into account the degree to which the whistleblower's information led to penalties being imposed and whether there was an appropriate and accessible whistleblower procedure within a company or government agency.
The sweeping recommendations come after a range of scandals within corporate Australia where whistleblowers who disclosed misconduct, fraud or corruption were sometimes sacked, demoted or persecuted by employers.
The committee report said evidence to the inquiry shows "whistleblower protections remain largely theoretical with little practical effect in either the public or private sectors".
The report points to the "near impossibility" of current laws to protect whistleblowers from reprisals and to hold those responsible for reprisals being called to account.

To track the effectiveness of proposed new legislation, the committee wants annual reports made to parliament from both public and private sectors as well as not-for-profit organisations.
Another recommendation is that the Small Business and Family Enterprise Ombudsman conduct an inquiry into protections for whistleblowers against reprisals.
Former public officials as well as former contractors to the Australian Public Service would also be able to make disclosures under a recommendation that the Public Interest Disclosure Act of 2013 be amended.
The report says that where a whistleblower discloses information to a law enforcement agency, he or she must receive regular updates on whether or not the matter is being pursued.
The inquiry considered 75 submissions including ones from the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, Transparency International Australia, trade unions, business groups and whistleblowers such as Jeff Morris, whose career at the Commonwealth Bank imploded after he disclosed allegedly inappropriate behaviour.
Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter: @peter_f_ryan


Adelaide rail commuters are set to endure more months of frustration and delays because of works affecting three city train lines.
The State Government said the Outer Harbor and Grange lines, and about a third of the Gawler line, will be out of action for up to 10 weeks because of the Torrens Rail Junction project.
From September 24 until December 3, Outer Harbor and Grange passengers will be forced to use substitute buses.
On the Gawler line, substitute buses will operate between the city and Mawson Lakes from October 1 until October 16.
The closures are to allow for the removal of three level crossings in Bowden — on Park Terrace, and on Gibson and East streets.

The State Government said the closures would also allow for excavation to begin on the new rail underpass and an upgrade to Croydon railway station.
"While it is disappointing that we need to disrupt train services to do these works, when they are complete they will have a big impact in reducing delays for both road traffic and rail services," Transport Minister Stephen Mullighan said in a statement.
The work is part of a $238 million upgrade to separate freight and passenger rail lines, and will see the freight line lowered beneath the Outer Harbor line in Adelaide's parklands.
"Once these works are complete, Outer Harbor and Grange trains will no longer need to slow down at these level crossings and the requirement for trains to give way to one another will also be removed, improving the travel times for all services," Mr Mullighan said.
Adelaide's suburban train lines have been closed for extended periods in recent years to allow for upgrades including electrification and track works, and because of problems such as electrical faults.


A Labor frontbencher is demanding the resignation of Employment Minister Michaelia Cash after it was revealed she knew the head of the building watchdog breached the Fair Work Act almost a year ago.

Australian Building and Construction Commission boss Nigel Hadgkiss resigned today after admitting to breaching the act over right to entry rules.
In court it was revealed Mr Hadgkiss knew about material distributed by his organisation that suggested employers could make reasonable requests to stop union officials holding meetings in workplaces.
But under changes to the laws, the employer no longer had that right and unions could meet workers in meal rooms for talks if needed.
Unions reacted with fury to the admission.
And when pressed in Question Time, the Employment Minister revealed she had known about the matter for some time.
"I became aware of the behaviour in October 2016," Senator Cash said.
Labor senator Doug Cameron was furious.
"Not only should Mr Hadgkiss have resigned today, but the Minister should resign as well, she is responsible for him," he said.
"She should take responsibility for appointing someone who breached the law he was supposed to make sure was complied with."

Australian Council of Trade Unions president Ged Kearney was equally unimpressed.
"He was prepared to put up misinformation, it appears he wanted fact sheets to reflect laws he wanted to be in place rather than what was actually there," he said.
"It just makes a complete mockery of this Government's agenda to break down unions and to stop working people get justice at work."
Liberal senator and former employment minister Eric Abetz accused the union of seizing on a "slip-up" to distract from their own problems.
"That which Mr Hadgkiss is alleged to have done pales into absolute insignificance, it is literally in the parable, they are pointing out a little speck in Mr Hadgkiss's eye," he said.
Mr Hadgkiss has had a long career, heading up the Building Industry Taskforce, the office of the DPP in New South Wales, and the Construction Code Compliance Office in Victoria.
Senator Cash's office issued a statement to the ABC, but did not respond to specific questions about Mr Hadgkiss's actions.
"Minister Cash was first advised of the CFMEU's allegations against Mr Hadgkiss in October 2016," a spokesman said.
"Yesterday Mr Hadgkiss admitted to a contravention of the Fair Work Act. He has today submitted his resignation to the Government which the Government has accepted."


South Australia is home to some of the oldest vines in the world, which comes with a longstanding problem.
Grape growers have faced an ongoing issue when disposing of wooden posts which support the vines to grow.
Typical pine posts are treated with arsenic, so growers are forbidden to throw away, burn or bury them.
Jack Papageorgiou has been growing grapes in the Riverland for more than forty years.
He said it was a problem every grape grower in Australia faced and it was only getting worse.
"Posts do break during harvest and in other weather conditions," he said.
"The biggest problem we have is... how are we going to dispose of all these broken posts?"
Mr Papageorgiou has to replace at least 1,000 of his posts each year.
But one South Australian company believes it has a solution for the thousands of grape growers lumped with the problem.
Conma Industries — which used to supply to the automotive industry — has developed an environmentally-friendly metal post for grape growers to use instead of traditional wooden posts.
The company, which is based at Edwardstown in Adelaide's south, has received a $328,000 grant from the State Government to assist in its transition.
Agriculture Minister Leon Bignell said it costs the wine industry around $107 million a year to replace broken wooden posts, and believes producing metal posts could solve the problem while creating jobs.
"We have people in the wine industry with great ideas," he said.
"It's terrific to see them coming together rather than going offshore."
Conma Industries is already selling to 137 vineyards locally and also overseas.
Automotive Transformation Minister Kyam Maher said the demand for metal posts continued to grow.
"The manufacturing has doubled pretty much each year for the last three years," he said.
"It is a great story about how the company is doing something different and keeping on going after the closure of Holden."
Mr Papageorgiou, who has not used metal posts in the past, is keen on trying them out.
"We need that sort of investment," he said.
"I am willing to listen and to be able to use the product and be able to do a bit of a trial on my vineyards. Bring it on."


Tens of thousands of Papua New Guineans have been without electricity for the past two days because of an electronic payment system glitch.

PNG Power's pre-paid Easipay system failed on September 11, leaving customers unable to top-up their accounts.
The company promised to have the system restored by midnight on the September 12, but failed to do so.
Those customers with limited credit spent the time without power to their homes.
Yolandrea English said the outage spoiled the food in her family's freezer.
"Our cleaner here is trying to throw out all our meat, because [the electricity has] been out like that for two days now," she said.
The pre-paid power is usually purchased on mobile phones or from shops.
Ms English and her one-year-old daughter Rubie spent the time outside on their verandah trying to keep cool, as their fans and air-conditioning system could not be used.
"I can't cope up with the fact that PNG Power doesn't have a back up system in play," she said.
"Its just unrealistic."

Ms English's brother Patrick was angry that PNG Power, which is a government-owned utility, could not fix the problem.
"Services from the Government is very poor, they need to step up, pull their socks up, do something about it," he said.
"We actually pay tax, I am very frustrated and pissed off that we update our tax and they don't do their jobs."
In a statement released today, PNG Power said the system had been fixed, but that customers would need to buy vouchers from its offices.
It promised to progressively restore the other parts of the service.


Some of Australia's top restaurateurs are warning their businesses are being put at risk due to an extreme skills shortage in hospitality that is being exacerbated by the Federal Government's drastic changes to the 457 visa program.
The changes, announced in April, will abolish the pathway to permanent residency for key roles including restaurant managers, bakers and cooks.
The hospitality industry relies on foreign workers to fill certain roles, from a French pastry chef to a specialist in sake.
But business owners have told Lateline the changes mean a level of uncertainty that will jeopardise their plans for expansion — and ultimately impinge on the quality and diversity of the Australian dining scene.
Celebrity chef Neil Perry has about 3,000 staff across dozens of restaurants, including Rockpool, Jade Temple and Rosetta in Sydney, about a third of whom are on some kind of temporary work or student visa.
"[Workers on 457 visas] are super important for the restaurant industry because there are skills we need to bring in, both back- and front-of-house, in cooking, service [and] sommeliers," he said.
He said he had always sought to employ Australian staff in those positions, but it was not always possible to find the right skillset.
"It means we have to reflect on [any possible] expansion — can we or can't we. [With the] labour market saying [it] can't supply any more, we have to rethink what we're planning to do."
Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, in announcing the abolition of the 457 visa category, said the change was designed to ensure Australian jobs were filled by Australian workers where possible, and that foreign workers were not being brought in "simply because an employer finds it easier to recruit a foreign worker than bother hiring an Australian".

Will Aldous, a migration agent at TSS Immigration, called that scenario "ridiculous".
"Our clients go through an extensive application process, and face delays of accessing staff of many months while visas are processed," he said.
"Employers and visa applicants are vetted by the Government. It's not a quick fix for businesses; it takes a long time. The business that will typically use this program will do so as a last resort  — they pay $4,000 to $5,000 to bring someone in on a 457 visa."
Critics say the changes, which not only remove the pathway to permanent residency but increase the cost of hiring a skilled migrant and place a higher English language requirement on applicants, will create uncertainty for those currently here.
"These are people who have uprooted their lives, taken children out of schools in home countries [and] put them into an environment where English is a second language," Mr Aldous said.
"[They] now face the prospect of that dream being shattered because of this change in regulation. They will have to depart — some [won't] even work out the term of their of 457 visa."
Migration consultant Angela Chan said that would be problematic for an industry already facing a skills shortage.
"It was faced with a critical shortage before the abolition of the 457 program," she said.
"It's projected that there will be a skills shortage of 120,000 by 2020 of workers within hospitality and tourism industry."
A Federal Government spokesperson said foreign restaurant managers, bakers, pastry cooks, and chefs remained eligible for sponsorship under the new arrangements, "however they are not intended to substitute for Australian workers".
"The 457 visa is a temporary visa and has never provided a guaranteed permanent resident outcome," the spokesperson said.
"Current subclass 457 visa holders can continue to hold their visa until its expiry and will not be affected by the changes to the lists of eligible occupations unless they apply for a further subclass 457 visa or change employers."
Nino Zoccali, who runs Italian restaurant Pendolino in central Sydney, said the mood in the industry since the announcement had been dire.
"Everybody is freaked out," he said.
"Everybody is talking about key staff leaving and not wanting to stay because of the changes to the rules."
He said 70 per cent of his front-of-house managers were on a 457 visa.

"It's much easier for us and much less costly to employ Australian residents or Australian citizens but they're simply not there," he said.
"That's a big problem for us — when you have key managers in senior roles that you can't fill over a two- or three-year period it becomes quite desperate."
He said the best foreign workers would not come without the possibility of making a life long-term in Australia, and that meant the talent pool in the local hospitality industry would shrink.
The end result, said Mr Zoccali and Perry, would be a downturn in the quality of the Australian food scene.
"I'd love some permanent residency pathways for front-of-house people," Perry said.
"Service is a skill. If you don't think that, it's crazy to go out and promote [Australian] restaurants and tourism around the world and waste our money.
"Because if we don't deliver on the service promise when people come to Australia, they're not going to come back — it's as simple as that."
Watch the story on Lateline tonight at 9:30 on ABC News or 10:30 on ABC TV.


There is no urgency for Ten Network creditors to sign off on a recommendation to sell the embattled broadcaster to US television giant CBS, a court heard today.
Dr Andrew Bell SC, representing media baron Bruce Gordon, said a deed of company arrangement (DOCA) with CBS does not expire until December 15 this year, allowing creditors sufficient time to consider an alternative bid from Mr Gordon and Lachlan Murdoch.
Mr Gordon and Mr Murdoch through their respective companies, Birketu and Illyria, have challenged the decision by administrators KordaMentha to sell Ten to CBS, claiming that Ten creditors have not been told the full story about their unsuccessful bid.
A second meeting has been called for 19 September where Ten creditors will be asked by KordaMentha to vote for the CBS deal.
However, Mr Bell is seeking to derail the scheduled creditor meeting so the joint proposal from Bruce Gordon and Lachlan Murdoch can be considered.
"No evidence has been put in relation to any particular urgency regarding the DOCA with CBS," Dr Bell said referring to the December 15 sunset clause when the CBS proposal expires.
"Creditors are being asked to do something very significant in terms of their economic self-interest and should be properly informed."
Arguing that KordaMentha had acted improperly by only proposing the CBS deal, Dr Bell also suggested that the KordaMentha recommendation be scrutinised by an independent expert.
Justice Ashley Black dismissed an application from Dr Bell that both the CBS and Gordon/Murdoch proposals be put to the September 19 creditors meeting.
While agreeing that Dr Bell's questions were "very real and not theoretical", Justice Black cited the reluctance of all parties to agree to the terms of the proposal as his reason for refusing the application.
"It seems to be absolutely clear that the (proposed) amendment is factually based on whether there would have been any futility in putting forward a proposal that was substantially similar," Justice Black said earlier.

Richard McHugh SC for KordaMentha opposed Dr Bell's bid, saying it was unfair to permit any amendment without the administrators being able to properly respond.
Mr McHugh said his clients would require an adjournment to consider their response, which Justice Black refused.
The hearing in the NSW Supreme Court has been set down for two days and is scheduled to end late today.
However, in warning Dr Bell to expedite his arguments Justice Black warned he was prepared to continue the case into the early evening.
The court action by media rich-listers Bruce Gordon and Lachlan Murdoch is attempting to overturn the decision to sell Ten out of receivership to US media giant CBS.
The hearing also marked the first time that Mr Murdoch — through his family-controlled 21st Century Fox business, rather than his private Illyria company — intervened and joined the proceedings.
Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter @peter_f_ryan.


It may seem at first like an unlikely source, but Adelaide's oldest cemetery has released its very own olive oil harvested from trees growing on its property.
There are around 60 olive trees at the West Terrace Cemetery, believed to be Olea Europaea — a small and fairly common type of olive. The majority sit in a row between the property and the main road.
While olive oil is not necessarily the cemetery's core business, it is something its chief executive Robert Pitt believes is very special.
"I don't know of any other cemeteries that produce olive oil. We're quite proud of it, it's unique and we get a really good reaction from it," Mr Pitt said.
"We get a couple of tonnes of olives off them [during harvest] and my staff and some volunteers pick them, it's a fairly manual intensive job."
Each year, Mr Pitt and his staff partner with a local company to help press and bottle the oil. But this year's batch of 200 bottles is commemorating the cemetery's 180th anniversary.
"We have from year to year a variation in the quality, but that's my understanding of the fruit and of course it depends on the quality of the olives and when you pick them," Mr Pitt said.

West Terrace Cemetery is Adelaide's oldest, with the first burial at the site dating back to 1837.
The olive trees have been around since the 1860s, but how they came to be there remains a mystery, according to Mr Pitt.
"The first curator who took interest in the landscape was Henry Brooks. He was here from 1861 and retained an interest in the cemetery for 30 or so years after he left," he said.
"We think he worked with George Francis, the superintendent of the Botanic Gardens, and who brought the first olive trees to South Australia and produced the first olive oil."
The olive oil is part of an effort by the Adelaide Cemeteries Authority to help people think of cemeteries as not just a places to mourn the dead, but as spaces with a new lease of life.
"There seems to be a growing interest in death and dying, and there is certainly an interest in genealogy" Mr Pitt said.
"Also [it is important to educate people] about the roles of cemeteries as providing open space or space for passive walking or other recreation activities, and thoroughfares in communities."

The oil is only sold at one outlet, Jagger Fine Foods, in the Adelaide Central Market. Outlet owner Robyn Siebert said she gets all sorts of responses from customers.
"Some people are quite curious, some people are a little unnerved by it, some like to make good jokes about how well fertilised the olives might be," Ms Siebert said.
"I have some customers who live locally, so they really like the idea that it's a very local olive oil."
It is that idea of being local and connected that makes the West Terrace Cemetery oil unique, according to cultural heritage expert Alice Gorman from Flinders University.
"I think that is pretty unusual, I've never come across a similar example of certainly not in Australia, of such a thing happening," Dr Gorman said.
"What we're looking at the in the modern era is a new appreciation of cemeteries as heritage places that are important in connecting us to the past.
"Death used to be much more a part of people's lives. [Today] it's more likely people will die in a hospital or hospice so we have lost that integration with death in our societies."


The boss of one of Australia's largest nursing home chains told a 94-year-old resident she had to leave if she continued "intimidating" the facility manager.

Marie McLean had been at the Opal nursing home in Coffs Harbour — which is half owned by AMP — for six years when the managing director, Gary Barnier, visited her.
"He said, 'I've come to inform you that you've breached the Aged Care Act'," her daughter Kaye Campbell told 7.30.
"'We're asking you to leave the facility because we have documented evidence that you have intimidated the manager of the facility'.
"I said, 'You've got to be joking'. He said, 'No, I'm not joking, we have sought legal advice from our solicitors'.
"It scared my mum and he scared me too.
"I wasn't sure then what our legal avenues were. Was he able to just walk into the room and speak to us in that manner?"
Opal confirmed Mr Barnier met with Ms McLean and her daughter to "indicate unless their inappropriate behaviour towards the facility manager ceased, they would be asked to leave".
Opal said it had records which showed Ms McLean was "actively denigrating staff" and "had commenced an informal campaign to have the facility manager removed from her role".
Opal said it had a responsibility to ensure their homes are safe for staff.


Ms Campbell told Mr Barnier it was her mother who had been feeling intimidated by management.
Ms Campbell took the opportunity to complain about the lack of staff, especially at night, at the facility.
"His response was, 'we don't have any issues with staffing because we are owned by AMP and we have plenty of money','" she said.
AMP owns almost 50 per cent of Opal. The other half is owned by Singaporean company GK Goh.
There are no mandatory staff-to-resident ratios in nursing homes in Australia. Opal confirmed it typically has a ratio of one staff member for 20 residents at night, which "is in line with industry standards".
Mr Barnier ended the meeting telling Ms McLean she could stay as long as she didn't say anything derogatory about the manager.
"She just looked numb, like she didn't know what had happened," Ms Campbell said.
Ms Campbell said the meeting had a long-term effect on her mother, who changed from a socially active 94-year-old to someone who stayed in her room and needed counselling for anxiety.
"She was frightened because at that meeting they told mum, 'You are not to say anything about what happened in this room today to anyone'," she said.
"I don't know what he thought a 94-year-old was going to do to his company."
Ms Campbell's account comes after 7.30 broadcast the stories of two other Victorian families who said they had been bullied by Mr Barnier.
In one case Mr Barnier offered $10,000 to a man whose mother had died in Opal's Lakeview home. The Opal boss said the money was offered because the son was so distressed.
Since the story aired, the Opal board has commissioned an independent review "into clinical leadership, customer service and complaints management".
When 7.30 contacted AMP a spokesperson pointed to the review and said "we await the findings with interest and have been assured the conclusions will be made public".

However, Opal confirmed none of those interviewed by 7.30 will be part of the review.
7.30 also contacted Aged Care Minister Ken Wyatt to ask whether he would investigate the incidents involving Mr Barnier.
Opal's CEO is on two key government committees which advise on policy — the Aged Care Sector Committee and Aged Care Financing Authority.
The Minister said he retained "confidence" in Mr Barnier.
However, Labor's aged care spokesperson, Julie Collins, said "these are serious allegations that demand an investigation".
Ms McLean died last year.
Ms Campbell says her overriding memory of her mother now is the encounter with Mr Barnier.
"What I see when I close my eyes is my mum sitting in that chair totally shattered," she said.
"I will never get over it."


The ABS has released its latest Household Expenditure Survey, and it's not looking good for the average consumer.
We're spending more on the basics — $190 more per week — than six years ago.
We're also deeper in the red, with household debt doubling to $169,000 since 2003-04.
So how can you cut down on the biggest three household expenses — housing, food and transport?
Here's a few tips and tricks from the experts.

According to the survey, Australians are spending 19.6 per cent of their household expenditure on housing.
That's up from 18 per cent in 2009-10.
And for low income families that's even higher with the average household spending a whopping 23.4 per cent on average just on housing.
And when it comes to powering those homes, the amount spent on energy has jumped 26 per cent since 2009-10, an increase of 11 per cent in real terms.
A recent survey by consumer group CHOICE found the housing crisis was worrying 77 per cent of young Australians.
The survey found out of renters, 9 per cent of renters had deliberately missed rental payments, 28 per cent have had to borrow money from friends and family and 19 per cent have had to live off a credit card until pay day.
And for those who own homes, they were fearful of a rates rise.
So can you actually cut your housing costs back?
If you're renting, consider more affordable suburbs with good public transport options.
And if you're in a city like Brisbane or Melbourne where there's an apartment boom, make the most of it.
CHOICE spokeswoman Stefanie Menezes said you shouldn't be afraid to exercise your consumer power when it comes to negotiating.
"Balancing a household budget is never easy but there are ways consumers can change their everyday spending to make sure they get bang for buck," she said.
Last month the ABC spoke with Carbon + Energy Markets director Bruce Mountain on his top energy saving tips which included heating water with solar, choosing energy efficient appliances and looking at your insulation.
Check out his full list of tips here.
Australians are spending 16.6 per cent of their household budgets on food.
And out of the lowest income households that number is 18.7 per cent.
So how can you cut back?
Queensland mum Jody Allen is part of a growing community of bloggers writing about ways to save money online.

Her website, Stay At Home Mum, shares tips on cutting down your grocery bill and other savings hacks.
She started the website after being made redundant while on maternity leave in 2011, prompting a drastic look at her household expenses.
She told the ABC the first tip for reducing your weekly shop was using what you already had in the cupboard.
"So many people go shopping, and they still have so much food in their pantry, freezer and fridge," she said.
"Make sure you really use up everything you possibly can before going shopping.
"Another tip is to halve the amount of meat you consume," she said.
"Meat is expensive — instead bulk up your meals with rice, beans or vegetables.
"Not only will you save money, you will lose weight and be healthier."
She said her favourite and most cost-effective meals were simple "but simple doesn't mean boring".
"We have sausage casseroles, burritos, baked potato nights where we pick our own toppings, we make a lot of stir-fries as they are healthy and fast," she said.
Her other tips include planning ahead, freezing meat if you don't cook it that night, cooking meals in batches and avoiding the frozen food aisle.
"It is an easy trap to fall into if you are time poor," Ms Allen said.
Australians spend an average of 14.5 per cent on transport, which is down on the 15.6 per cent we spent on transport back in 2009-10.
For the lowest income households this is 15.7 per cent.
But it's still the third biggest drain on household finances.
So where can you make cuts?
You can start by looking at the total cost of your transport for the year.
It might be paying for parking near your workplace or catching public transport.

Once you've calculated the total cost for the year, take a look at how that can be reduced.
Could you park somewhere without a fee? Or carpool with a colleague?
And if you're catching public transport can you drive to another train stop with a cheaper zone? Or ride or walk to work one day a week?
If you own a car take a look at how much you're spending on insurance. Can you negotiate a better deal?
And make sure to do regular car maintenance — like filing you tyres with air and keeping the oil topped up — that will save you in the long run.
CHOICE told the ABC consumers should think twice before making any purchases on luxury items, don't renew your insurance without shopping around and beat the bowser blues by doing your homework on websites such as accc.gov.au on when and where to fill up your car.
"Choice's latest quarterly Consumer Pulse report found that more than half of all Australian consumers are worried about how to pay for health care, electricity and next week's groceries," Ms Menezes said.
"Concerns over the cost of fuel, car insurance and home insurance weren't far behind, showing the nation is feeling the squeeze on many basic services."


Flinders and Franklin streets have been selected as the preferred route for an east-west bikeway in the CBD, but traders and some city councillors believe it will be another Adelaide City Council "muck up".
The bikeway location was agreed to at an Adelaide City Council meeting on Tuesday night and design plans will now be drawn up.
The project has a budget of $5.5 million, with half of that to be funded by the State Government.
Councillor Houssam Abiad said the project would ensure improved road safety for cyclists.
"We need to make sure whoever wants to come to our city is welcome and know it's very accessible," he said.
Council documents showed the size of some existing outdoor dining areas along the route would be affected due to angle parking being changed to parallel parking and off-peak parking only being available along some sections of the bikeway.
Publishers Hotel director Peter Buik said his Franklin Street business was one of many which would experience a drop in customers when the bikeway opened.
"I'm totally opposed to it," he said.
"It doesn't produce economic benefit and the number of people affected outweighs the benefit, it's not worth it."
According to the Adelaide City Council, almost 400 cyclists use Flinders and Franklins streets every day as they ride to and from the city.
Mr Buik said he believed the bikeway would make an already dire car parking situation even worse.
He said customers often called his hotel apologising that they could not visit because they could not find a car park.
"Why are we spending a huge amount of money on a bike lane that no-one uses?" Mr Buik said.
At last night's meeting, several councillors expressed their disappointment with the current north-south bikeway which uses Frome Street and has been the subject of several controversies.
Councillor Anne Moran said the council should stop "flipping from one project to another" and learn from the "muck ups" of the Frome Street bikeway.
"It's [Frome Street bikeway] been denounced by the State Government, by locals and by local government," she said.

Several businesses along Flinders Street voiced similar concerns.
German Club manager Adrian Vomberg said parking was already a major problem for patrons.
He wrote a letter to the council yesterday describing how the bikeway would affect his business.
"If it goes through, our loading zone goes and two car parks [out of four current car parks]," he said.
"How can we contribute to vibrancy and trade in the area when no-one will be able to park in the vicinity.
"Vibrant Adelaide seems to be falling on deaf ears."
But Cr Abiad said the council would try to retain as much parking as possible.
"When you look at Franklin-Flinders street, there's a lot of little laneways with a lot of parking," he said.
"It doesn't have as much pressure on it when comparing it to Pirie Street or some of the other streets."
The council will consult with businesses in the coming weeks.


In a blow to Rupert Murdoch's takeover plans, the British Government will refer Twenty-First Century Fox's bid for satellite broadcaster Sky to the competition regulator.
Culture Secretary Karen Bradley told lawmakers on Tuesday that she intended to refer the takeover to the Competition and Markets Authority because of concerns that the deal might concentrate too much power in one company's hands.
Mr Murdoch's media group is trying to buy the 61 per cent of Sky it does not already own.
Currently, he owns British newspapers including the Sun and The Times of London.
Ms Bradley said she was also "minded" to refer it out of concerns about broadcasting standards.
She said there is a risk, "which is not purely fanciful," that the merger would not be in the public interest.
In a statement on Tuesday, Fox said it was "disappointed" in the decision, and that UK broadcast regulator, the Office of Communications (Ofcom), had previously advised the government that the deal did not raise concerns about broadcast standards.
But Ofcom said in a July report that the Sky takeover may "have the effect of amplifying the influence of members of the Murdoch Family Trust over the political process".
"We urge the secretary of state to take a final decision quickly," Fox said.
Fox also said the deal, announced in December 2016, was now likely to be completed by June 30, 2018, "subject to any further delays in the decision-making process".
The takeover values Sky, which broadcasts Premier League soccer and top film and television offerings in Britain and other European markets, at 18.5 billion pounds ($30.6 billion).
An earlier attempt to buy the remaining shares was scuttled by the 2011 phone-hacking scandal that rocked Mr Murdoch's British newspapers and led him to close the 168-year-old News of the World.
Ms Bradley's announcement was seen as a victory for Mr Murdoch's critics, who have been emboldened by scandals over alleged racial discrimination and sexual harassment at his US TV network Fox News.
They say Mr Murdoch does not meet the requirement that UK media owners be "fit and proper" people.
Ms Bradley said that, because of submissions she had received over the summer, "I am now minded to refer the merger to the (regulator) on the grounds of genuine commitment to broadcasting standards."
She said one area raised by critics of the deal was "what they termed the 'Foxification' of Fox-owned news outlets internationally."
British broadcasters are bound by stricter rules governing balance and neutrality than those in the United States, where Fox News' partisan style has won it a large audience.
It is "important that entities which adopt controversial or partisan approaches to news and current affairs in other jurisdictions should, at the same time, have a genuine commitment to broadcasting standards here," Ms Bradley said.
Tom Watson, media spokesman for the opposition Labour Party, congratulated Ms Bradley on her decision.
"This is the first time a minister in the current government has ever stood in the way of what the Murdochs want, and frankly it's about time," he said.
Douglas Wigdor, a US lawyer representing current and former employees who are suing Fox for racial discrimination, also welcomed the announcement.
Mr Wigdor, who previously wrote to Ofcom listing allegations against Fox News, said he was "hopeful that Fox will now waive any gag orders so that other individuals can provide relevant information without fear of reprisal."
Once a formal referral takes place, the regulator will have six months to conduct an investigation.
Sky said in a statement it was "disappointed by this further delay".
"Nevertheless we will continue to engage with the process as the secretary of state reaches her final decision," the company said.
AAP


The rapidly rising cost of essentials like housing, energy and education is pushing households deeper into debt, according to the latest figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS).
The 2015-16 Household Expenditure Survey shows the average family spent about $1,425 a week — $190 more than six years earlier.
Household debt had also doubled since 2003-4, with the average family owing $169,000. Property debt accounted for nearly 90 per cent of this.
The largest weekly expense for families was housing — such as rents and mortgages — followed by food and then transport.
However, the amount spent on power and energy had jumped 26 per cent since 2009-10 — an increase of 11 per cent in real terms.

Emily Maron and Peter Gagliardi have five children under the age of nine and balance their weekly budget down to the last cent.
They have amassed a $6,000 power bill debt, despite using a payment plan.

"Most of the money goes on rent. Food is a big one and school, and then the bills are huge," Mr Gagliardi said.
The family lives on $597 a week, less than half the average income.
"It comes to the point where it is ridiculous," Mr Gagliardi said.
According the latest ABS figures, the largest proportional increase of any spending category was on education — jumping 24 per cent in six years.
Ms Maron said money needed for school trips could blow their budget, with their eldest children needing iPads for class, and constant demands for special school days and trips.
"Things are always coming up at school that they can't participate in and that separates them from the rest," she explained.

Going back further, in 1984 it was food and non-alcoholic drinks that most people spent their money on, and housing was the third-highest category, making up just 13 per cent of spending.
The proportion spent on education has more than tripled over the past 32 years, while money spent on clothing and footwear has more than halved.
Across Australia, the Northern Territory and ACT spent the most on goods and services, despite Western Australian having the greatest rise in median weekly household income, from $1,111 to $1,782 over the past 10 years.
Tasmania saw the smallest rise in average weekly income, from $950 to $1,209, and had the highest number of low-income families.

The ABS said nearly 30 per cent of Australian households were over-burdened with debt, with mortgages the driving cause.

Not surprisingly, higher-income households were more likely to be swimming in debt, given their access to credit.
A quarter of the households in the top income bracket were over indebted, compared to one in six low-income families.
However, the ABS said the gap between rich and poor remained stable.
"The wealthiest 20 per cent of households in Australia has remained stable since 2013-14," ABS chief economist Bruce Hockman said.

Yet figures showed inequality in net wealth was higher than income inequality.
However, the St Vincent De Pauls Society said over the past three years, more and more low-income families had come to them needing help.

"They are seeing mounting bills and have to make choices every week as to what they can pay and can't pay, and always have that sense of dread about the next bill," the charity's Victorian CEO Sue Cattermole said.
"So they may ask us for food but in fact it may be something else that is a stress for them."
While Mr Gagliardi struggles to make ends meet, he remains confident he can clear his mounting debt and get his family back on track.
"I have worked out a 10-years plan, just give me another five years," he said.


The WA Government's decision to slug big businesses with increased payroll tax will lead to the loss of 1,300 jobs, a peak industry group has said.
Labor reneged on a key election commitment not to increase taxes when it handed down the state budget last week, lifting payroll tax on companies with a wages bill of more than $100 million a year.
Under the move, companies paying employees between $100 million and $1.5 billion will have payroll tax increased from 6 per cent to 6.5 per cent.
Unless it is blocked by opposition parties in state parliament, the increased tax will remain in place for five years, when it is estimated the budget will return to surplus.
WA's Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI) said modelling showed the tax would result in 1,300 job losses and also affect small to medium businesses.
CCI chief economist Rick Newnham said the tax would damage a fragile economy that was starting to show early signs of recovery.

"Thirteen hundred jobs is roughly six carriages of a train, so if you imagine six carriages pulling up at the football and everyone getting off that train that's 1,300 people that now don't have a job," he said.
Mr Newnham said businesses affected by the change had already indicated they would pass on the tax.
"It's false to claim it will only impact on the big end of town," he said.
"We know that those costs will be passed immediately through the supply chain to small and medium sized businesses."
However, Mr Newnham said modelling also showed the Government could limit the amount of damage the tax would have on the economy and jobs.
He said hundreds of jobs could be saved if the threshold for paying payroll tax was increased from $850,000 to $950,000.
"The payroll tax hike will cost 1,300 jobs, but lifting the payroll tax threshold will create 900 jobs," he said.
"So it will partially offset those job losses while allowing the budget to be repaired."

The outgoing chief of Wesfarmers, Richard Goyder has described payroll tax as a "dud tax".
Wesfarmers, which owns the Coles supermarket chain and Bunnings, is one of the state's biggest employers paying around $60 million in payroll tax a year.
Mr Goyder has estimated the changed to the tax will cost Wesfarmers about $10 million a year.


It was hardly a heroic fightback by beaten down consumers, but they appear to have become marginally less glum.

The September reading of the national consumer psyche by Westpac and the Melbourne Institute found, despite a slight pick-up, the overall mood remains downbeat, with pessimists outnumbering optimists for the 10th straight month.
"Pressures on family finances, concerns around interest rates, deteriorating housing affordability and rising energy prices have all weighed on confidence in 2017," Westpac's chief economist Bill Evans said.
"These factors are more than offsetting the boost from an improved outlook for jobs, particularly when a stronger labour market has not been associated with increased wages growth."
While consumers had a more positive view of household finances compared to a year ago, expectations for the next year fell — giving up last month's gains.
The consumer sentiment index edged up 2.5 per cent to 97.9 points, still below the long run average of 101.4 — where 100 is the dividing line between net optimism and pessimism.

Capital Economics analyst Paul Dales drilled into the survey and found that, while overall headline confidence improved, concerns about the housing market and household debt remained elevated.
"The share of respondents that identified real estate as the wisest place to put their savings fell from 13.3 per cent to 10.5 per cent, the lowest share since records began in 1974," Mr Dales noted.
"Based on past form, that's consistent with house price inflation slowing further, from 9.3 per cent in August to zero."
The "time-to-buy-a-house" index edged up marginally, but remains very low by historical standards.
Mr Dales also highlighted the share of people who identified paying off debt as the wisest place to put their savings remained high.

"This suggests that households remain reluctant to take on more debt to offset weak income growth and support consumption growth," Mr Dales argued.
"All told, these figures tally with our view that the pick-up in consumption growth in the second quarter won't mark the start of a sustained turnaround."
Commsec's Craig James says it appears Australians are growing cold on real estate investments.
"Putting money in the bank or paying down debt are still regarded the wisest places for new savings. And shares have narrowed the gap with real estate," Mr James said.
"A less frothy real estate sector would be very much embraced by the Reserve Bank."
Westpac's Bill Evans said from his perspective prospects for consumer spending and residential construction continue to be soft.
"We do not expect that economic conditions in Australia in 2018 will be consistent with the need for the Bank to raise rates," Mr Evans said.



Australian shares are likely to start the day higher, following solid leads from global markets overnight.

Risk-on sentiment has returned since the weekend as global markets were relieved that Hurricane Irma's financial impact was not as bad as expected, and North Korea did not launch any further missile tests.
As more investors put their funds in shares and the US dollar, traditional safe-haven assets like gold and the Japanese yen weakened slightly.
European stocks also rose to a five-week high, led by gains in financial and industrial stocks.
The S&P 500 hit a fresh record for the second day in a row, up 0.3 per cent to 2,496.
Nearly every sector posted trading gains, except for utilities. Some of the best performing stocks were in the energy and financial sectors.
Financial stocks were boosted by an uplift in government debt yields, as the benchmark 10-year Treasury yield rose to trade at 2.17 per cent — its highest level since early September.
Investors also paid attention to public comments by US Treasury secretary Steve Mnuchin about "tax reform" on Tuesday.
Mr Mnuchin said he was "incredibly hopeful" that by the end of this year a "competitive" tax rate for businesses would be introduced, with retrospective effect from January 1.
Apple also unveiled its latest offerings on Wednesday morning (AEST) — including the new iPhone X (to mark the 10th anniversary of its smartphone).
The technology giant also unveiled a new iWatch, which make calls without needing to link it with an iPhone like its previous watch models.
During the launch event Apple's shares had some wild swings — falling by 1 per cent, and rising by as much as 1.5 per cent.
Apple's shares finished 0.4 per cent lower at the close of Wall Street's trading day.
Meanwhile, US energy shares received a boost from rising oil prices.
This was after OPEC (the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries) forecast higher demand in 2018, and Russia and Venezuela confirmed their commitment to a deal that would cut production, in an attempt to reduce the global crude oversupply.
OPEC also said in its monthly report that Hurricanes Harvey and Irma would have a "negligible" impact on oil demand.
During the Wall Street trading session, an upbeat economic release from the Bureau of Labor Statistics revealed there were a record number of job vacancies — according to the JOLTS (Job Openings and Labor Turnover Summary) report for July.
Vacancies rose to a high of 6.17 million, while the "quits rate" rose slightly to 2.2 per cent
ASX futures have risen by 0.4 per cent, pointing to the local share market's likely higher opening.
Iron ore prices lifted 2.5 per cent overnight, which should bode well for the share prices of big miners BHP and Rio Tinto.
It will be a quiet day for local economic data. Westpac and the Melbourne Institute will release the results of their monthly consumer confidence survey.
Consumer sentiment has been negative for the last nine months.
Last month's drop was due mainly to concerns about slow wage growth, higher power costs, and rising interest rates.


A deal between a private company and the University of Tasmania will see the development of what the group says will be the world's first commercial rock lobster hatchery.
It is claimed Tasmania will become the birthplace of a global industry for rock lobster aquaculture following the deal between the PFG Group and the university.
Researchers at Hobart's Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies (IMAS) hope the move will commercialise their breakthrough research into the lobster's complex larval cycle.
Until now, the lobster's long and complex lifecycle has made it impossible to farm the species in a commercially scalable hatchery.
Researchers said the world's first commercial hatchery could reshape the lucrative industry.
PFG Group, a Tasmanian plastics and maritime equipment manufacturer, has invested in a university spin-off company giving it licensing rights to the research.
Scientists at the IMAS Taroona laboratories will spend the next two years finalising development of the hatchery process while the company builds a commercial-scale hatchery.
The company said it hoped the first commercial production of farmed rock lobsters would start by 2021.

The university's deputy vice-chancellor for research, Professor Brigid Heywood, said the development had been more than 15 years in the making.
"For those who have not actually seen the facility working and seen science in action, it's unbelievably special," she said.
"It's a spectacular example, it's almost too exciting.
"The fact that we've been able to get to the point of real technology transfer, so that we're not just talking about it, we're not just anticipating it.
"We are creating a new world first, it can't be anything else but exciting."
Rock lobsters were farmed in Indonesia, but they were stocked by taking young lobsters from the sea.
Chief executive Michael Sylvester said it was an opportunity for a local Tasmanian manufacturer to develop world-class science and exploit that technology on the world stage.
"This ultimately leads to commercial hatcheries around the world and this leads to more Tasmanian jobs, and it leads to Tasmanian expertise being world-recognised," he said.
"We started out working with IMAS as a supplier of equipment and we grew that capability by bringing our aquaculture expertise into the hub and now we're a partner with the university."

Director of the research program, Associate Professor Greg Smith, said the IMAS team had taken work done on a laboratory bench to a commercial level.
"It's world-leading research," he said.
PFG Group chairman James Cretan said the sky was the limit for this kind of research.
"Someone's got to feed the world," he said.
"We sometimes underestimate as Tasmanians what we've got on your own backyard and the quality and the importance of this sort of applied science on a world scale.
"I think with recent developments in aquaculture we are now understanding the benefit of having a robust and sound science and unimpeachable science informing the growth of the industry."


Catching the train in Melbourne has become a physical sport that most commuters just aren't dressed for.
The pushing and shoving needed to claim a spot in a carriage — let alone a seat — is like a subtle form of judo, but without the comfort of any rules.
Success is measured by how long you can stay on your feet, but these days getting in the ring might be the biggest challenge facing commuters, according to the Public Transport Users Association (PTUA).
"It's twice as busy as it was 15 years ago," PTUA spokesman Daniel Bowen said.
Some relief might be on the way with Melbourne's rail operator Metro Trains subject to tougher performance targets and penalties as of yesterday.
That includes a ban on the controversial practice of skipping stations, which is used to meet punctuality standards.
But what happens if you can't fit onto a train that rolls into the station?
With the help of the PTUA, we've compiled a list of Melbourne's most overcrowded stations.

Caulfield is an interchange station for Melbourne's south-eastern suburbs, which has huge passenger loads from the Cranbourne, Frankston and Pakenham lines.
The PTUA says Caulfield Station, where commuters use tunnels and ramps to get to different platforms, struggles to cope with commuters during the evenings, and that's set to get worse when the Metro Rail Tunnel opens.

This inner-city station is best known for being the ideal walking distance to the MCG.
But with eight lines, it's also extremely busy and the tunnels connecting the platforms experience a crush of passengers during peak hour and especially after sporting events.
That's expected to get worse with Melbourne's population set to reach 7.7 million by 2031.
"The perfect storm is what it is," Mr Bowen said.
"Melbourne is a growing city and it's actually great that so many people are choosing to use public transport.
"But there are hotspots where the infrastructure doesn't cope."
Not very busy, but it's been singled out because of its design, which the PTUA says is poor.
The station has narrow platforms and no waiting area, aside from old bus shelters.

One of the busiest stations on the Frankston line, and trains are packed whenever there are delays.
Trains also have to slowly rumble over the tram crossing, causing delays and crowding on the entrance ramp.
University of Melbourne transport planning expert John Stone says he isn't surprised Melbourne's inner and middle suburbs are copping the brunt of the network's crowding problems.
"That's where population is growing," Dr Stone said.
"We're just not keeping pace with the services we need to match that demand."

There are queues to get onto the escalators in the morning at Parliament but during the evening peak, it's the last station pick-up in the city for three out of four platforms.
The PTUA says that means the passengers wedged onto the already-narrow platforms face the prospect of a packed train.

Melbourne's most iconic station and home to every train line, which also makes it extremely busy and congested. Some of the older platforms and the Elizabeth Street subway are short on space.
Over the last 10 years, there's been an explosion in the number of people using public transport, Dr Stone said.
"We really took our eye off the ball during the 70s and 80s and into the 90s when planners really thought that the city would be serviced by cars."
"There's really lost decades where we just didn't see public transport growth as something that was likely to happen, and now that it is happening, it's a problem for governments to catch up."
An inner-city station which is the last stop on the Frankston line just before South Yarra.
Delays mean crowding is so bad that people can't fit on the train.
Prahran is on the Sandringham line and is a stop before South Yarra.
There are trains every seven or eight minutes in peak hour, but any delay means commuters start to feel the crunch.

Kensington is the last station before the city on the Craigieburn line, meaning it's often crowded.
"If there are delays on cancellations, then it can really be a problem because often you'll find it difficult to squeeze onto the train," Mr Bowen said.
"You might be left waiting for several trains to go by before you can actually fit onto a service."

It's a trophy they'd probably prefer not to win, but passengers at South Yarra face the roughest commute.
The PTUA ranks South Yarra as the worst station for overcrowding during the morning peak because it's so close to the city.
"The next time you are crammed in like a sardine, when you get off that train, make a note to send an email or give a phone call to your local and state MP," Mr Bowen said.
"Ultimately the Government runs the rail network ... state politicians do need reminding that the funding needs to keep coming to help relieve the rail network."

Mr Bowen says it's vital projects like the level crossing removal plan continue so that trains can run more often.
"Running those trains frequently, not just in peak hour but also across the day, seven days a week, helps spread that peak load and helps more people use the rail network without having long waiting times between services," he said.
Dr Stone said the Victorian Government had some hard choices to make about Melbourne's transport future.
"The international evidence is really clear that if you try and build a city around both roads and public transport, as we're doing with the West Gate tunnel and Melbourne Metro, you end up spending more and not getting good outcomes," he said.
"The key is to provide a seamless network between bus, trains and trams. That's the sort of thing which gives you the opportunity to do very many more journeys than you can do now with public transport.
"People need to be be putting their vote where those sort of solutions are being offered."
Yesterday, Victoria's Transport Minister Jacinta Allan said the Government's new seven-year deal with Metro Trains was made with passengers in mind.
"We are cracking down on those things that really frustrate passengers, whether it the bypassing of the City Loop, station skipping, short-running," she said.


It's September, which means just like footy finals, Apple fans are getting excited after a new iPhone announcement.
Apple held its annual keynote presentation early this morning (AEST) and unveiled a bunch of new goodies.
Leaks in the lead up meant not much was a surprise, so let's dig deeper into the announcements.
Quite a bit actually.

The iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus are basically the normal yearly update we've come to expect.

It's got a new brain (what Apple is calling the A11 Bionic chip), a new camera (including a spiffy new portrait mode for A+ selfies) and wireless charging.
The 8 and 8 Plus cost $1,079 and $1,229 respectively.
It's the iPhone X where Apple has really pulled out the stops.
Apple CEO Tim Cook has called it the "the biggest leap forward since the original iPhone".
It's got an edge-to-edge display and an OLED screen for the first time.
Gone from the X is the Home button that's been a fixture on the iPhone since its launch in 2007.
You're going to be unlocking it with your face.
Yep.
The loss of the Home button means no more using your fingerprint to unlock your phone.
Instead the X will use an infrared camera and special hardware for facial recognition instead.
Apple says the phone will still be able to recognise you if you wear a hat, put on glasses or grow a beard.

The technology also knows if you're looking at it, so it won't unlock if you give it a passing glance.
It's not all serious though.
Face ID will power Apple's new "Animojis". They're emojis that will match an expression you're making with your face.
So if you ever need the poop emoji to look particularly shocked...you now have the technology.
In a bit of an embarrassing moment though, the Face ID didn't work first crack for Apple senior vice-president Craig Federighi during the keynote.


Apple reckons there is a one in one million chance that your phone can be unlocked by someone that isn't you.
It says the X won't unlock with a photo of your face or if someone is wearing a mask either.
Apple says all the data will be stored locally on your phone, not in the cloud. So there isn't going to be database of 400 million faces that someone could easily hack.
Foad Fadaghi, managing director of emerging technology analyst firm Telsyte, is taking Apple's claims at face value.
"Apple's privacy stance and lack of advertising business should help mitigate security concerns," he said.
Nope.
Bingo.
In Australia the iPhone X will cost $1579 for the 64GB model and an eye watering $1829 for the 256GB one.
Mr Fadaghi said some old mobile phones flirted with a similar price, so it's not unheard of.
"The higher prices mean greater likelihood of telco contract sales as well as longer usage lifetimes," he said.

The introduction of 4G connectivity is a big leap forward.
In short, it means you'll be able to use functions like making phone calls, sending texts or navigating using maps without your phone nearby.
It essentially turns the watch into a mini-smartphone.
Mr Fadaghi says he expects the introduction of 4G will push the number of Apple Watch users in Australia beyond one million.
"The ability to access streaming music services without tethering to the iPhone will appeal to those who want to access a huge library of songs rather than be limited to onboard memory," he said.
"Similarly we will start to see more Apple Watch App developers take their WatchOS apps more seriously."
Apple stock fell slightly after the announcement because of the delayed release of the iPhone X and concerns about Face ID, according to CNBC.
On social media, people had plenty of fun with the keynote.


But others were raising plenty of questions about the security of the Face ID tech.


Mr Fadaghi said months of leaks and rumours meant the normal excitement that would accompany a new iPhone announcement might be a bit tempered, but that won't stop people from opening up their wallets.
"Apple has an extremely high repeat purchase intention rate (93%) in Australia and the tech media narrative has been iPhone rumour focused for many months," Mr Fadaghi said.
"Android manufacturers have had similar features in their handsets for some time, but Apple's unique ability to market them will create demand in its customer base."
The iPhone X will be available from November 3, whereas the iPhone 8 will be released on September 22.
ABC/Wires


The Federal Government is facing an uphill battle to get its plan to overhaul university funding through the Senate by the end of this week.
Back in May, the Education Minister unveiled the plan to gradually increase student fees from next year and to make students start repaying their HELP loans once they are earning $42,000 a year, down from the current threshold of around $55,000.

Under the changes, universities will also be hit with a 2.5 per cent efficiency dividend for the next two years and some funding will be contingent on performance in areas such as student retention.
With Labor and the Greens opposed, the Government needs 10 of the 12 Senate crossbenchers to get its plan through.
Here is what we know so far about the way the crossbench is thinking.
Is the only confirmed yes vote at this stage.
But it comes with a condition attached. He will only support the bill as long as it is not watered down during negotiations with the Nick Xenophon team.
So that puts a big question mark over his support.
Nick Xenophon and his team hold three votes in the Senate, so the Government cannot succeed without them.
The party has been heavily focused on media laws so far this week and will turn attention to higher education once that is dealt with.
That means a vote could be delayed and pushed out until the next sitting in a month's time.

One Nation has four votes in the Senate and at this point has not declared its position.
But earlier this year, Pauline Hanson called on the Government to make students start repaying their HELP loans once they start earning $22,000 a year.
The Government will not agree to that.
Senator Bernardi also wants changes to the package.
He says he wants to save taxpayers' money and will try to make some improvements.
He is concerned about penalties for private institutions and wants to make universities more accountable when it comes to the job prospects of their graduates.
Senator Lambie is concerned about several elements of the package but willing to talk to the Government.
In particular she is worried about students having to pay higher fees.
She is also concerned about a decision to start charging students for enabling courses.
These courses help students prepare for university. Under the changes, institutions will be able to charge more than $3,000 and she is worried that will deter students from low income backgrounds.
Senator Hinch said the Government has not spoken to him yet, but he will not support the change to make students start repaying their HELP loans once they earn $42,000.
He said he would agree to $50,000 but no lower.
He also doesn't want to see any cuts to funding for institutions in regional Victoria.
Is still receiving briefings from the Government and has not decided.


Battle lines have been drawn between the gas industry and its critics over whether allowing fracking to resume in the Northern Territory could help solve the east coast energy price crisis.

The industry is using the idea of NT gas being a solution, rather than a problem, to persuade the NT Government to lift its fracking moratorium by the end of this year.
Gas companies are arguing that bringing more supply into the domestic market will bring down prices.
"Supply is needed to put downward pressure on domestic gas prices. And that is simply supply-demand economics," Santos CEO Kevin Gallagher said.
The big LNG producer, generator and retailer Origin Energy has the same position.
"We'd expect improved and increased supply would ultimately lead to a competitive environment and lower cost to consumers," its unconventional exploration manager David Close said.
Their assertion is supported by corporate analysts including Deloitte's Australian oil and gas lead Bernadette Cullinane.

"Overall if there is more supply in the Australian marketplace then that will make prices more attractive, and will bring down the cost as well as the price to consumers, she said.
But analyst Bruce Robertson from the green-tinged Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis points out that the Territory is a remote, high-cost location, with high pipeline transport costs.
"Producing high cost Northern Territory gas, which is very high cost gas, about $7.50 a gigajoule, is no way to bring down the cost of gas on the east coast of Australia," he said.
He blames the big companies for high prices, because they have committed to selling most of their gas overseas under long term contracts.
Under those contracts the companies are getting paid less because, ironically, international oil and gas prices have fallen due to a global glut.
"They simply cannot produce the gas cheaply enough to make money on their export business," Mr Robertson said.
"But what they're doing is they're making that up by gouging the east coast consumer.
"The high price is entirely due to cartel-like behaviour."
The companies are rejecting the accusation they are running a cartel.

"I think that shows a fundamental misunderstanding of Australia's east coast gas market, what export contracts and oil-linked export contracts mean, and what it means to be a stable investment ready destination, honouring and meeting its contracts," Mr Close said.
But Mr Robertson thinks the big producers are uneconomic.
He believes they are pursuing Northern Territory gas because they contracted to export more gas than they had access to, and invested in more LNG processing capacity in Queensland than they could fill.
"They are pursuing a loss making business because they basically can't afford to write off their plants at Gladstone," he said.
"And that is what in the end will happen, I believe, to at least half of them within two years. I believe you'll see them shut down, because they are the high cost producer in the world and we are in a massive global glut of LNG.
"Barring some major supply disruption like a geopolitical event, like a war, the glut's not going to go soon."
Mr Robertson is arguing that unless there's a big international price increase, Northern Territory gas will be too expensive for either the domestic or export markets.
"You cannot be producing gas at $7.50 and selling it for $6.90 on the spot market in Japan, as you are currently, it just doesn't work," he said.

But the companies believe the Territory's remote Beetaloo Basin, south of Mataranka, contains such a large and high quality resource, it shouldn't be written off.
"Commerciality at this point cannot be known without more data," Mr Close said.
"It will really come down to the well performance, the amount of gas that each well produces, the amount of liquids that each well produces and the cost of those wells.
"And until we know those data, these predictions made by analysts, they aren't accurate, they're based on false assumptions without data."
According to Santos chief  Kevin Gallagher, the economics — and whether development is worthwhile — are unknown until the explorers can appraise and test the resources underground.
"Santos is positioning itself as the lowest cost onshore developer of gas resources across onshore Australia, and as such, we are confident that if it can be developed economically Santos will be the company that can do that," Mr Gallagher said.
Central Australian producer Central Petroleum is continuing to develop its operation in Mereenie field near Alice Springs, because that doesn't require fracking.

Its managing director Richard Cottee is bullish about the prospects for expanding the Territory gas industry because he expects the cost of piping gas will come down.
"COAG and the Federal Government have bit the bullet of pipeline reform, the first tranche of which went through in August," he said.
"That will reduce the costs of piping gas, and also give the economic signal to encourage more investments in increasing supply."
Deloitte predicts the global gas glut will last until 2024.
Ms Cullinane is warning the United States, Russia and Qatar are producing gas at a fraction of Australian costs.
"There is a gap, that we need to very actively work on to close, but that being said, we can bring to bear some of the newest digital technologies and predictive analytics to be able to reduce that gap," she said.
And she believes Darwin has the potential to become a major gas hub.
"I believe the Northern Territory can turn its competitive disadvantage, its remoteness, into an advantage, and the way to do that is to co-locate companies in a cluster," she said.
"Darwin LNG has been joined by Shell, with the development of Prelude LNG and the Supply Base in Darwin, as well as Inpex, a massive project with onshore LNG processing, so it's now truly a tipping point where the Territory can become a global leader in gas."


Tens of millions of dollars raised by Western Australia's gold royalty increase will be lost to other states, raising questions about why the McGowan Government went ahead with the idea.
Figures provided by the Government confirmed that, due to the GST distribution system, more than half of revenue raised by Treasurer Ben Wyatt's gold royalty increase would eventually flow to the coffers of other states and territories.
In the next four years, WA will end up losing $50 million of the $392 million raised by the gold royalty increase.
But that will increase over time, with a spokesman for the Treasurer confirming that "roughly 60 per cent" of the additional royalty revenue beyond the next four years would be lost.
The confirmation that WA would lose a large share of the revenue prompted questions from the Nationals about why the Government chose to hit gold miners with bigger royalties.
Premier Mark McGowan said WA's bleak budget situation left his Government with no choice.
"If in the [previous] term in office the [former government] had not so comprehensively devastated this state's finances, these sorts of things would not have to happen," Mr McGowan said.
Mr McGowan said WA would have lost an even greater share of other revenue from other measures, due to the way the GST system works.
The gold royalty hike and an increase in the payroll tax paid by big business were key measures in last week's budget, which predicted WA would finally return to surplus early next decade.
But the McGowan Government is now facing a heightened prospect of key budget measures being defeated in State Parliament, after the WA Nationals vowed to vote against both the royalty and payroll tax increases.

"It is the wrong choice to increase a royalty on a sector that cannot afford it and will cost jobs and it is the wrong choice to increase payroll tax, which is the most insidious tax we have," Nationals leader Mia Davies said.
But Mr Wyatt blasted the Nationals' attempt to block the measures, saying it was hypocritical following the party's mining tax campaign both before and after the election.
"They have decided to take zero responsibility for the fiscal consequences of their time in government," Mr Wyatt said.
Labor needs the support of either the Liberals, Nationals or at least one key crossbencher to ensure its budget measures survive, a situation that is now looking increasingly perilous for the Government.
The Liberals have threatened to vote against both measures but are yet to make a firm decision.



Hurricane Harvey's floodwaters have triggered a spill of more than 1.5 million litres of petrol from two storage tanks along the Houston Ship Channel, marking the largest spill reported to date from a storm that slammed into the heart of Texas' huge petrochemical industry.

The spill measured 10,988 barrels, or more than 1.7 million litres, and occurred at a petroleum tank farm in Galena Park, east of Houston, operated by Magellan Midstream Partners, according to the Oklahoma-based company and accident reports submitted to federal officials.
Some of the spilled fuel flowed into a waterway adjacent to the ship channel, a heavily-industrialised area lined with dozens of petrochemical facilities, the reports said.
Petrol is more volatile than oil, meaning it evaporates more quickly after it has spilled. But it is also more likely to catch fire and can more rapidly penetrate the soil and potentially contaminate groundwater supplies.

The spill came after twin blasts rocked a chemical plant north-east of Houston as floodwaters receded in the wake of the storm that left dozens dead last month.
Magellan spokesman Bruce Heine said the petrol that reached the small, unnamed waterway had been contained. The spilled fuel was sprayed with foam to prevent it from releasing harmful vapours, he said.
"Federal and state regulators have been on-site during the recovery and clean-up procedures.
"Clean-up activities at the facility are continuing and we are currently removing and replacing affected soil."
The US Environmental Protection Agency said in an emailed statement that it was not aware of any environmental damage from the spill outside of Magellan's Galena Park facility. The agency said there was a chance the petrol would enter the ship channel but agency personnel were not aware of that happening.
The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (CEQ) planned to investigate the accident to determine if Magellan had complied with its operating permit and state rules that require the company to disclose any air pollution emitted by the spilled petrol, CEQ spokeswoman Andrea Morrow said.

Environmentalists criticised officials for not being proactive in publicising the spill and warning Houston-area residents that it had occurred.
Luke Metzger, director of Environment Texas, said the group had received anecdotal reports of people in the Houston area suffering headaches, respiratory problems and other symptoms associated with exposure to chemicals in contaminated floodwaters.
"They ought to know exactly how much gasoline was spilled, where it is now, how the state is containing it, and whether they should worry about any ongoing public health threats," said Kara Cook-Schultz with the advocacy group TexPIRG.
The spill was first reported to state and federal officials on August 31, but no volume was given at that time. The company later that day reported the spill was 1,000 barrels.
In a report filed last week and released on Monday (local time), Magellan put the spill more than 10 times higher at 10,988 barrels: equivalent to the combined volume of about 51 tanker trucks used to deliver petrol to service stations.
Mr Heine said state and federal regulators had been notified promptly of the company's best assessments of the volume.
The Associated Press has identified more than two dozen spills from fuel and chemical tanks that failed during Harvey. At least 14 tanks failed when their roofs sank under the weight of Harvey's unprecedented rainfall. Others were swept away by floodwaters.
Including the Magellan spill, the accidents have released more than 2 million litres of fuel.
Mr Heine said what happened with Magellan's tanks was "related to flooding associated with the hurricane," but would not elaborate and said the cause was still under investigation.
Government regulations do not require tank owners to take specific steps to make the tanks flood resistant, although researchers have warned for years they are prone to break open during severe hurricanes. In 2005 during Hurricane Katrina storage tank failures spilled millions of gallons of fuel into floodwaters.
AP


A South Australian detective has gone on trial accused of abusing his position by leaking sensitive information to reporters, placing several investigations "at potential risk".
Peter Dawe Martin, 57, has pleaded not guilty to 10 charges of abuse of public office.
The detective is alleged to have leaked sensitive information in 2012 to Channel Seven reporter Michelle Vella and News Corp Australia reporter Nigel Hunt.
At the time, Detective Martin was working in the Major Crime squad which investigates serious crimes including murders.
Opening the trial, prosecutor Mark Norman SC told the District Court jury the detective knew "very well" that he was not authorised to pass on the sensitive information.
"As a detective in that position he had a particular duty to keep that information confidential, but he didn't," Mr Norman told the jury.
Mr Norman said the detective was a "gold mine" to the journalists because exclusive insider information was the "lifeblood of journalism".
"By providing that information to those journalists the prosecution suggests Detective Martin destroyed that confidential nature of that information and in the process police lost control of that information and he put several investigations at potential risk in one way or another."
Mr Norman said Detective Martin was not paid or bribed for the information, but his motives were "far more subtle and human".
"He was angry, he was angry at his police superiors for a variety of reasons," Mr Norman said.
Mr Norman said Martin was "flattered" by the journalists' interest in him.
"He was flattered by the interest in him and his work and he wanted to very much to sustain that relationship by helping them with their work as crime reporters," Mr Norman said.
"Detective Martin was, in effect, trading information for attention and he was prepared to betray his position as a police officer to do it."
Mr Norman said hours of telephone intercepts which would be played to the jury would leave them with "no doubt that Detective Martin was enjoying the attention, was enjoying the relationships" and was "doing everything he could to benefit them".
Mr Norman said there were strict police protocols about what information could be divulged to the media.
"There's no suggestion the press or media should be prevented from doing their job, there's no suggestion that having journalists as friends is, in itself, a criminal offence," Mr Norman said.
The jury was told the prosecution would have to prove the alleged leaks amounted to "improper" conduct.
The detective has denied any wrongdoing.
The trial continues.


There is a two-stroke economy in Queensland's property market, with the state's south-east booming while many regional markets struggle, a report by the Real Estate Institute of Queensland (REIQ) has revealed.
Centres hit hard by the mining downturn — including Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Gladstone — saw median prices fall 27.7 per cent since 2012.
Unit markets in Bundaberg, Fraser Coast, Townsville, Mackay and Gladstone fared even worse with median prices plunging almost 44 per cent in the past five years.
The Gladstone market faced the most significant challenges with the annual median price dropping from $458,000 in 2012 to $295,000 this year.
The REIQ report attributed the poor performance to the mining downturn and a declining population in the regions.
In contrast, Brisbane's average house price hit a new high of $665,000 this year, up from $505,000 five years ago.
REIQ spokeswoman Felicity Moore said the increase represented "consistent growth for the market".
"This is remarkable given there's been some economic forces that have been detracting from the state's economy," Ms Moore said.
House prices on the Gold Coast also grew steadily, improving 6.8 per cent to $620,000 in the year to June.
The REIQ report said State Government investment and construction in the lead up to the Commonwealth Games had boosted the local economy.

The only blip on the radar in the south-east was Brisbane's unit market which fell almost 3 per cent due to increased supply and falling demand.
Ms Moore said in the regions, any future housing recovery would be closely tied to the local economies and populations.
"When jobs dry up, people leave town and that means there are houses in oversupply and that's what has happened," Ms Moore said.
"There are several mines that are setting up and ramping up their production levels … this is going to attract workers back to the area.
"Typically [workers] will rent, so you'll see vacancy rates drop a little bit and then they'll move into buying once their job security is a bit more firmly established."
She predicted that barring any disruptive events — such as a state election — regional communities should start to see recovery in the market.
"What we know from history is that people tend not buy and sell while we're in a campaign period and they'll wait till the election's been finished," Ms Moore said.
"Particularly as we get closer to that … we may start to see a slow down as the media attention on when the date will be set begins to ramp up."


Single-use plastic shopping bags will be banned in WA from July 1 next year. So will you still be able to line your bins and scoop up your doggy-doo?
According to the McGowan Government, the ban applies to lightweight plastic shopping bags — the thin bags with handles usually found at supermarket checkouts.

The ban also includes "degradable" plastic bags, which the Government says are no better for the environment than ordinary plastic.
The jury remains out on bioplastic and compostable bags, however. Labor is still deciding whether they will be allowed.
Stores will also be allowed to sell alternative bags which meet certain criteria, including thicker plastic reusable bags and "green" bags.

The ban won't apply to carrier bags needed for food safety — for example for meat and fish — while thicker department store bags and reusable bags will remain fine to use.
Councils will presumably be allowed to keep distributing those doggy-doo bags in public parks as well, or we could have an environmental crisis of another kind on our hands.
South Australia, the NT, ACT and Tasmania already have a bag ban in place. Queensland has vowed to bring one in by mid-next year as well.
South Australia introduced its ban in 2009. The SA Government says it has resulted in 400 million fewer bags in the state per year.
Compostable bags and paper bags are still allowed in South Australia.
According to the WA Government, "plastic bags make up a relatively small portion of solid waste and litter but can significantly harm marine wildlife and birds, which can inadvertently eat or become entangled in plastic bag waste".

A 2015 study found 60 per cent of seabirds had plastic in their guts, and that number was expected to rise to 95 per cent by 2050.
The plastics can cause blockages of the gut or perforation of the intestines.
Concerns have been raised that if customers can opt to buy thicker plastic bags at the checkout, it won't make much of a dent in the amount of plastic.

In the NT, an environmental group claimed the ban introduced in 2011 had failed to reduce plastic bag litter.
However in the ACT, in the six months before they brought in the ban, 266 tonnes of plastic bags went to landfill.
Two years later, it was down to 171 tonnes over the same time period.
So the amount of plastic weight had reduced, but people were continuing to buy boutique plastic bags and throw them away — but at a slower rate.
A recent Keep Australia Beautiful report found that plastic bag litter "fell significantly and almost immediately after the [ban] came into effect in the ACT and Tasmania, and remained down over subsequent years".
However in SA, it didn't fall as much and has now almost returned to pre-ban levels, while in the NT the ban appears to have had little effect, with lightweight plastic bag litter actually increasing.



Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull's trumpeting over yesterday's meeting with AGL boss Andy Vesey is nothing more than "Trumpean showmanship", says former prime ministerial adviser and business veteran Geoff Cousins.
Mr Turnbull called Mr Vesey to his office in Canberra to try to convince him to keep the company's Hunter Valley Liddell power plant open beyond its 2022 closing date.
While the Government says it emerged successful, the two parties have offered differing accounts of what was agreed during the 90-minute meeting.
But Mr Cousins, who has served on several company boards and was an adviser to former prime minister John Howard, said no government can instruct a CEO how to conduct their business.

"It's kind of a piece of Trumpean showmanship is all this is. You might remember when Trump first became the President in the United States, he was suddenly calling CEOs of major companies into his office," Mr Cousins said.
"What they do look to prime ministers for is sound government policy in the industries in which they operate, but they don't take instructions and prime ministers don't have any ability to give any instructions."
Mr Cousins, who currently chairs the Australian Conservation Foundation board, said the Prime Minister has been hamstrung by members of his own partyroom.
"I don't think there's any doubt about it at all. Malcolm Turnbull in his heart of hearts knows perfectly well that the important thing for Australia is to transition from this old technology," he said.
"I'm sure Malcolm Turnbull would like to do it, but it would appear that certain elements of his party have captured him and they won't allow him to."
Yesterday's meeting, which also included Energy Minister Josh Frydenberg, would likely have involved Mr Turnbull asking for a favour, according to Mr Cousins.
"The Prime Minister would have said to Andy Vesey, 'I'm in a bit of a spot. I'd like you to give me a hand. At the very least, say you'll take this plan to your board'," he said.
"Andy Vesey is a man of some conviction. He has made his views on what should happen in the energy sector entirely clear.
"But he would have said, 'I'll take it to the board. But please understand that it is a matter of long-term policy we do not believe investments of this kind are viable'."

Mr Cousins says AGL's decision over the Liddell plant would not have come as a surprise to the Federal Government.
"AGL and Andy Vesey, the CEO, who I know well, has made the policy of the company extremely clear a couple of years ago that AGL wanted to get out of coal, out of fossil fuels," he said.
"The Government just ignored all that, as it has ignored also comments from the banks that they are not going to invest in fossil fuels any more."
Government MP Craig Kelly also weighed in, describing AGL as "probably one of our biggest corporate villains" and accused the company of duplicitous behaviour.
"This seems to be completely contrary to the information that was coming out of the meeting with the Prime Minister, and I think it appears AGL speaks with forked tongue," he said.
But Mr Cousins said the Government's claim that it is acting in the national interest and that the company is only acting in its own corporate interests is untrue.
"I think the actions of the Government give the lie to that. The Government is acting in its own political interest," he said.
"It's a bit like Turnbull suddenly turning around and saying, 'We're not going to invest in the NBN anymore. We're going to revive the old copper network for telephony'."


The Ten Network's employees have been "poisoned" by not being allowed to properly consider a competing bid to buy the struggling broadcaster, a court has heard.

The court action by media rich-listers Bruce Gordon and Lachlan Murdoch is attempting to overturn the decision to sell Ten out of receivership to US media giant CBS.
However, whether Mr Gordon and Mr Murdoch were the "disappointed under-bidders" or "disappointed over-bidders" became a point of argument early in the packed hearing before NSW Supreme Court judge Ashley Black.
The hearing also marked first time that Mr Murdoch — through his family-controlled Twenty First Century Fox business, rather than his private Illyria company — intervened, and joined the proceedings.
Ian Pike SC, for Fox, told the court Fox was questioning why it would only receive less than 2 cents in the dollar, unlike other creditors who received a full payout.
However, the decision of Ten's administrators KordaMentha to go with CBS as the preferred bidder was a "completely disingenuous proposal", Dr Andrew Bell SC argued on behalf of Mr Gordon's companies.
Mr Gordon's commercial interest involves two entities, his private investment business Birketu and the regional broadcaster WIN Corporation.
Dr Bell SC said Mr Gordon was a "disappointed over-bidder" given his joint bid with Mr Murdoch would have offered 10 per cent more to creditors.
"The administrators have unilaterally made a decision not to put the competing Birketu and Illyria proposals to creditors for a vote," Dr Bell told the the court.
"This should immediately raise the interests of the court to be zealous to ensure full disclosure before the creditors meeting takes place.
"It is not reasonable to remove the decision from creditors of which vote to accept.
"Significant problems remain in the new disclosure (released yesterday by KordaMentha) and some of the earlier problems have been exacerbated."
But Richard McHugh SC, acting for Ten's administrators, had harsh words for Mr Gordon's legal team.
"There is no substance in the Birketu and Illyria complaint," Mr McHugh argued.
"The bid had conditions which made it less attractive and less certain."

He said the Gordon-Murdoch bid depended on changes to be made to Australia's broadcasting laws, which still have not been made by the Federal Government.
In addition Mr McHugh argued creditors would be worse off under the Gordon-Murdoch bid, which is allegedly "not open for acceptance" because it was submitted after the August 25 deadline.
CBS' barrister, Jason Potts SC, also appeared at the hearing.
He argued that Mr Gordon's legal team had made some "extraordinary" and "unprecedented" propositions.
Earlier Mr Gordon's legal team argued the value of CBS's vote should be restricted to just $1.
Mr Potts SC said the complaint made by Messrs Gordon and Murdoch is one which involves "an ungrounded, unanchored notion of commercial fairness".
Mr Potts argued that the court "would not find anything justify blocking the vote of CBS, a major creditor".
The hearing continues.


The Queensland Opposition has suggested duplicating a large stretch of the M1 motorway on the Gold Coast, but stopped short of promising to build the road if it wins government.
Opposition Leader Tim Nicholls instead launched a petition, in what he said was an effort to pressure the Palaszczuk Government to build it.
Mr Nicholls said the first stage should be a 37-kilometre, four-lane stretch between Stapylton-Jacobs Well Road and Nerang-Broadbeach Road at a cost $500 million.
A recent upgrade of one exit on the M1 cost more than $74 million.
Mr Nicholls said the existing stretch of road was reaching capacity.
"This is a transformative project … it'll help families, it'll help business, it'll help industries, it'll help the cities of Gold Coast, Logan, Redlands and Brisbane," Mr Nicholls said.
"We all know what it's like on a Friday afternoon when the M1 is chock-a-block chocked up with traffic and you want to get home."

But Mr Nicholls stopped short of committing to build the project if the LNP wins government at the next election.
"Annastacia Palaszczuk could end the uncertainty around jobs, jobs security by simply naming the election date instead of playing ducks and drakes as she has been for the past couple of months," Mr Nicholls said.
"When she names the election date we'll be starting to announce our policies.
"But the important thing here today is if you want to see a second M1 then go online, sign the petition and let the Government know what you think".
In March, the State Government and Federal Government jointly agreed to pour $500 million into upgrades on the M1 and three other road projects.
Transport Minister Jackie Trad said Mr Nicholls should instead be petitioning the Federal Government, which has refused to fund the road at the same level as other interstate projects because Queensland has refused to sell assets.
"He should be petitioning his millionaire mate Malcolm Turnbull to make sure that Queensland get its fair share," she said.
"If he is so intent on making the [road] an election commitment, he should actually be fronting the people of Queensland and making the commitment himself and also explaining to Queenslanders how he's going to fund it.
"Because this is a plan for a petition, not a plan to build a road."
RACQ spokesperson Paul Turner told the ABC the alternative corridor would alleviate congestion for residents in Brisbane and the Gold Coast.
He said it was very likely residents would support the project.

"There's also some major communities being developed on the eastern side of the M1 between Brisbane and the Gold Coast. This road would provide access for them as well, keeping them off the M1," Mr Turner said.
"Anyone who travels between Brisbane and the Gold Coast regularly knows that the M1 is very close to capacity, particularly during rush hour and that rush hour itself now goes for hours."
Mr Turner welcomed debate about the corridor and said he hoped the State Government would back the project.
"We think it is realistic. We've got to look long-term. The M1 is the busiest road in Queensland — 141,000 vehicle movements a day — we need some alternatives," he said.
While the RACQ would not say how much the project could cost, Mr Turner said it would be cheaper to build a new road corridor than make upgrades to the existing M1.
"If you're able to build alternatives off on greenfield sites, essentially, without having to duck the traffic as well, you can save a lot of money," he said.
Engineers Australia spokesman Chris Warnock said the debate over building an alternative corridor was nothing new and it showed residents were growing more frustrated with congestion.
"Traffic congestion is really the symptom, it's not the problem — you need to look at why people are travelling in the first place," Mr Warnock said.
"You can either try to say: 'Look, let's just build another road or build two more lanes on to the motorway', but I think that's very short-term thinking."
Mr Warnock warned against building more infrastructure to try and beat traffic.
He said another corridor would lead to more congestion and frustration in the future.
"If you build more capacity on your road networks, you will attract more people into their cars onto the road network and then in five to 10 years we will be having this discussion again," he said.
"That disconnect between where jobs are located and where the residential population is based is what's driving a lot of the traffic demand."


West Australian retailers will be barred from giving shoppers single-use plastic bags from next July, with the state becoming the latest Australian jurisdiction to announce a ban.

Shoppers will instead be required to bring their own bags or forced to purchase reusable ones from stores under the changes announced by the McGowan Government.
Environment Minister Stephen Dawson said the announcement had the backing of major retailers, and was confident any backlash from shoppers and smaller stores would be minimal.
"We will talk to industry over the next few months about our scheme," Mr Dawson said.
"There is public support for it now so we wanted to give the community some confidence that we are bringing in a ban across the state."
Premier Mark McGowan said the distribution of single-use plastic bags at shops had a devastating environmental impact.
"Plastic can blow all over the place. It can blow into our rivers, our wetlands and our oceans and it kills marine life," Mr McGowan said.
"We think the time has come."
Shopper Wes Capper said he could not see any harm in the ban.
"It's not a bad idea, to be honest. Save the planet a little bit, seeing as we're destroying it pretty good, I reckon."

Conservation Council WA chief executive Piers Verstegen welcomed the move.
"Plastic is created from petrochemicals, so it pollutes the environment when it's created and it also pollutes the environment when we dispose of it," he said.
"Overall this is going to lead to a massive reduction in the amount of plastic waste in our environment."

South Australia, Tasmania, the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory already have plastic bag bans in place, while Queensland is also moving to implement one.
In WA, the City of Fremantle previously moved to ban single-use plastic bags within the local government area but had the scheme voted down in State Parliament.
The City of Perth also flagged implementing its own bag ban earlier this year.
A statewide ban could also in theory be voted down in State Parliament's Upper House, but Mr Dawson said he was confident that would not happen.
In July, supermarket giants Coles and Woolworths announced their own plans to phase out the environmental hazards over the next 12 months.



Despite trading conditions holding near record highs, Australian business appears to have had a sudden crisis of confidence.

The respected NAB monthly business survey found confidence suddenly slumped last month, to be below its long-term average for the first time since mid-2016.
NAB chief economist Alan Oster said the sharp drop in business confidence this month was somewhat concerning, although the deterioration may prove to be short lived.
"For those indicating deterioration in confidence, the biggest concerns appear to be customer demand, government policy, as well as cost pressures — both energy and wages."
Mr Oster said while most industries appeared to be performing well, retail remained a concern with retail conditions languishing in negative territory.
"We will be watching this trend closely as household consumption is a notable point of difference between our relatively subdued growth outlook and the RBA's more sanguine forecasts, and will be key to the economy's sustained return to trend growth," he said.

Business conditions over the month rose by one index point to +15, well ahead of the long-term average of 5 points but short of the record 20 hit a decade ago, just before the GFC hit.
Employment registered the biggest gain of the three key measures of business conditions, while profitability and trading conditions deteriorated.
Victoria and South Australia drove most of the gains in conditions, although they were largely offset by a large fall in New South Wales while Queensland and Western Australia also experienced more subdued conditions.
Mr Oster said the positive news was forward looking indicators from the survey, such as forward orders, were relatively upbeat.
"Improvements in labour market indicators point to further falls in the unemployment rate, helping to mount a case to bring forward RBA rate rises," he said.
"However, there are few signs of inflation or wage pressures in the official data as yet, while relatively downbeat consumer confidence is still a point of concern in light of poor retail conditions.
"Additionally, the previously emphasised hurdles to growth — elevated underemployment, an elevated Australian dollar, household debt and peaks in LNG exports and housing construction - remain firmly in place."



Tough new laws will be introduced in a bid to crack down on dodgy company directors and their advisers.

Directors of Australian companies will be given a unique identification number to help stop the illegal activity of "phoenixing" — where companies are stripped of assets and liquidated, then restarted under a different name leaving creditors out of pocket.
Phoenixing is estimated to cost the Australian economy more than $3 billion a year.
The new Directors Identification Numbers (DINs) will allow authorities to track the activities of individual directors through various government databases and map their relationships with other directors and companies.
It is believed the Government is consulting on the best model of DINs to introduce.
Over the past 12 months, the ABC has reported on a number of "pre-insolvency advisers" who helped company directors carry out phoenixing.
The pre-insolvency advisers, or "facilitators", range from seemingly respectable accountants to people with organised crime links, and they too will be targeted by the new laws, which have been announced by the Minister for Financial Services and Revenue, Kelly O'Dwyer.
The ABC revealed last year facilitators were manipulating the corporate system by installing "dummy" directors in companies to shield the real directors from liquidators, creditors and the Australian Taxation Office (ATO), and were even able to backdate those appointments in the Australian Securities and Investments Commission's (ASIC) system to make it appear the dummy director had been in place for much longer.
As well as the DINs, the Government will consult on a range of other possible measures to tackle phoenixing, including making it no longer possible to backdate appointments, and stopping directors from being able to resign while leaving the company without a director.

Those suspected of phoenixing could also be forced to provide a security deposit, which the ATO could use to recover future unpaid tax debts.
Implementing a first-cab-off-the-rank system for liquidators was also flagged as a possible measure.
This would stop the appointment of "friendly" liquidators who turn a blind eye to phoenixing — a practice the ABC has seen evidence of in a number of cases.
There will also potentially be new specific phoenixing offences introduced, and an extension of existing penalties to capture the facilitators who advise phoenix operators.
The ABC spoke to numerous victims of phoenix operators, particularly creditors, over the past 12 months who expressed frustration with the lack of action taken by ASIC against dodgy directors and their advisers.
However, legitimate insolvency practitioners said the regulatory body was woefully under-resourced.
The ATO and other government agencies do have a combined anti-phoenixing task force, which has acted recently against some of the more prominent facilitators.

The ABC reported last year on Melbourne-based Philip Whiteman, a former bankrupt who was accused of helping scores of clients avoid millions of dollars in tax and payments to other creditors.
A number of people told the ABC they had been installed as "dummy" directors of companies by Whiteman without their knowledge.
The ATO took action in the Federal Court earlier this year to force four of Whiteman's companies into liquidation, and appointed accounting firm Pitcher Partners to forensically examine Whiteman's activities.
In a report tendered to the court, Pitcher Partners said Whiteman and his associates were operating a sprawling phoenixing operation, and might have committed too many crimes to individually list.
Labor's Andrew Leigh welcomed the new laws, but said the Opposition had been calling for the implementation of DINs for months.
"The Tax Commissioner confirmed the need for action back in May, when he told one member of a Senate committee that, 'I could appoint you as a company director without you even knowing and me then controlling the company'," Mr Leigh said.
"I don't know why it's taken the Turnbull Government this long to heed our call. I can only hope that they adopt the rest of Labor's plans to crack down on dodgy directors."


QBE chief executive John Neal will retire after five turbulent years running the global insurance business.
Mr Neal will step down at the end of the year, replaced by the company's chief financial officer Pat Regan.
Mr Regan joined QBE three years ago after an extensive career in insurance in the UK and is a relative newcomer to one of the more enduring companies on the ASX.
Mr Neal waited a decade to replace the 30-year veteran Frank O'Halloran in the top job in 2012 after QBE's fortunes crashed in the wake of the GFC.
Mr Neal was forced to slash the value of many of the businesses QBE had acquired up to 2007 in an aggressive growth strategy.
The company has struggled to regain its "market darling" status and in late 2013 its shares dropped around 20 per cent in one day as it announced further write-downs and big loss driven by its faltering US business.
However, the company has maintained its position as a global "Top 20" insurer with operations through the Australasia, the US, Europe, Latin America and other emerging economies.
Earlier this year Mr Neal had his short-term bonus cut by $500,000 after he failed to notify the board of a personal relationship with another employee.
QBE chairman Marty Becker thanked Mr Neal saying he "led the business through a significant transformation and a challenging period in the insurance industry globally".
Mr Becker said the search for a new chief had taken two years and had been conducted in consultation with Mr Neal.
"In the last 12 months Pat [Regan] has led a strong turnaround in the Australian and New Zealand operations highlighting his operational skills and business acumen and, in his previous role as group chief financial officer, had been pivotal in stabilising the balance sheet and enhancing the Group's capital management," Mr Becker said.
Mr Regan's base salary will be $2 million, with a 233 per cent incentive award on top of the base salary, rising to 350 per cent in the event of "outperformance" above targets set by the board.
That would translate to around $9 million with 20 per cent to paid in cash and 80 per cent in shares.
Investors welcomed the news with QBE shares up 2.5 per cent to $10.50 at 11:00am (AEST).



The world's largest car market, China, has indicated it will follow countries like France and Britain in moving to ban the sale of new petrol and diesel engines.

The Chinese Government has not said when the full ban on petrol and diesel car sales would take effect, but other countries like the UK and France aim to do it by about 2040.
The decision could see China, which makes and buys more cars than any other country, send shockwaves across the global auto manufacturing sector.
"The message would be out there, and all the other the manufacturers in the world that want to sell in China desperately will realise that the writing is on the wall," industry analyst Gary Glazebrook said.
"[Petrol engine manufacturers] will essentially be crowded out or legislated out of the market unless they switch to electric cars."
Professor Glazebook thinks China can implement the ban much sooner than European markets.
"The thing that has been holding it back up until now is the cost of electric cars and the fact that they didn't have enough range," he said.
"Well, the cars that are now on the market do have enough range and battery technology has been improving and getting cheaper, so we've reached that tipping point I think.
"To completely ban the sale of other than electric cars, I can see that they could do that with in perhaps 15 to 20 years."
It is a decision that has global implications for suppliers to the Chinese market, like Australia, where Toyota and Holden are due to close their last plants by the end of October.
But Australia's vehicle manufacturing and car parts industries will still be worth tens of billions of dollars to the economy, thanks in part to the Chinese market.
According to the body representing Australian car parts manufacturers, the ban is good news for Australia and could even see a revival of local car manufacturing.
Even so, Federation of Automotive Parts Manufacturers executive director Geoff Gwilym acknowledged there were fewer parts to sell to make an electric car.

"Currently those manufacturing operations make up more than 2.6 per cent of GDP in Australia, and it will still be around 2 per cent of GDP even when Toyota and Holden have finished their car-manufacturing operations," Mr Gwilym said.
"I think we could enter an age where we manufacture cars again, because it becomes a simplified process to some degree.
"Generally speaking, electric engines have got about 17 moving parts as opposed to hundreds of moving parts in either diesel or petrol engines."
As the world is making more cars and as electric cars become easier to make, Mr Gwilym sees opportunity for Australia.
"You are [competing with lower-wage markets like China], but automation will change a lot of that," he said.
"You don't have a casting plant, you don't have a machining plant, you don't have a plant that has to make engines.
"And if you attach to that different types of manufacturing technologies and robotics, then my view is that we will be able to make cars again."


Brazilian prosecutors are investigating reports that gold prospectors may have killed members of a so-called uncontacted tribe in the Amazon.

Brazil's National Indian Foundation asked prosecutors to look into the matter after prospectors were heard discussing an attack on indigenous people who live in the Javari Valley near the border with Peru.
The foundation alleged two gold miners were heard "boasting" about the deaths and paraded "trophies" from the massacre in a town near where the killings were said to have occurred.
They added it was believed "more than 10" members of the tribe were killed. If confirmed, this means up to a fifth of the entire tribe has been wiped out.
The foundation said in a statement that some prospectors have been detained for questioning, but they have not confirmed any deaths.
Federal prosecutors confirmed they had opened an investigation, but did not give any more details.
Survival International says the area is home to more uncontacted tribes than anywhere else on Earth.
The allegations have brought the Brazilian Government's treatment of indigenous people to the fore.
Isolated peoples are particularly vulnerable and indigenous groups in Brazil in general have complained that their way of life is increasingly under threat from land conflicts.
The Amazon rainforest has seen a growing number of illegal gold miners operating within it, disrupting indigenous tribes.

The foundation has criticised the Government for "openly supporting those who want to open up indigenous territories" adding that their actions are "setting indigenous rights in Brazil back decades".
Renowned Brazilian musician Caetano Veloso, whose music has been informed by injustices against Amazonian tribes in the past, also called on the Government to take action.
"Another deadly, violent and cowardly attack on the Amazon! A group of isolated Indians living in a protected forest in the Western Amazon was massacred by illegal miners in the region," he said.
"Fear has tried to stifle the news because this government does not like Brazilians, but loves the money from the miners who arrive in suitcases.

AP/ABC


Wall Street's relief rally on Monday is likely to flow to Australia when the ASX opens its doors for trading.
There are several signs that investors were breathing a collective sigh of relief.
Namely, gold fell by 1.4 per cent from its one-year high as traders retreated from safe-haven assets, and the CBOE volatility index (VIX), which measures anxiety in the market, dropped by 12 per cent to 10.8.

The three major indexes finishing sharply higher (by at least 1 per cent each), with the S&P 500 jumping to a fresh record.
The main reason for the surge in US market is that Hurricane Irma was downgraded to a tropical storm. This means the likely damage it caused is not likely to be as expensive as originally feared.
Catastrophe risk modelling firm AIR Worldwide forecast that total insured losses in the United States would range from $US20-40 billion, which is much lower than its initial estimate of $US65 billion.
Furthermore, the market was relieved by the absence of geopolitical headlines concerning North Korea — as its anniversary celebrations on the weekend did not result in another missile test.
After Wall Street closed, the UN Security Council unanimously adopted a US-drafted resolution imposing new sanctions on North Korea.
Every US sector finished higher, with technology and financial stocks being the best performers — up 1.7 and 1.5 per cent respectively.
Apple provided the largest boost to the tech-heavy Nasdaq.  Its shares rose almost 2 per cent, ahead of its new iPhone being launched on Wednesday at around 3.00am (AEST).
As risk-aversion subsided in the market, the US dollar recovered. This led to the Australian dollar falling by 0.4 per cent against the Greenback.
ASX SPI futures have risen by almost half a per cent, which is normally indicative of a higher open for the Australian share market.
In local economic news, NAB will release the results of its monthly business survey (for the month of August).
"No hints here as usual," said NAB economist Tapas Strickland.
"Markets will be interested in the extent to which Business Conditions and the Employment sub-index have sustained their recent improvements — and whether Business Confidence and Consumer Confidence continue to diverge."
While business conditions reached their highest level in nine years (since the global financial crisis), consumer sentiment was negative for the ninth straight month.
It will be interesting to compare today's NAB business survey results with tomorrow's Westpac consumer sentiment survey.


Once again, mining giant Glencore has paid no royalties to the Northern Territory Government for its McArthur River Mine (MRM), a company report has revealed.
MRM, on the Gulf of Carpentaria, is one of the world's largest zinc deposits.
The mine has been plagued by problems since a waste rock fire in 2013 emitted toxic smoke, and there have been fears acid and metal drainage could contaminate fish in nearby waterways.
The company's report on its payments to governments for 2016 showed it paid "$0" in royalties to the NT Government that year.
It is the second report Glencore has released on its payments to governments; its first report, for 2015 payments, also showed the company also did not pay any royalties to the NT Government that year.
In a statement, Glencore said the NT's profits-based royalty regime allowed for capital investment offsets to be made.
"Over the past several years MRM has made significant capital investments including the Phase 3 Development project," the Glencore statement said.
The Northern Territory is the only jurisdiction to have a purely profits-based mining royalty system, but the NT Government recently flagged it was considering changing it.

Treasurer Nicole Mansion said mining had made a significant contribution to the NT economy, but that it was time to look at the benefits of the Territory's profits-based royalty system.
"I think it's time we explore those options in discussion and in consultation with the mining sector," she said.
"It's important that we do have a discussion to make sure we have the right taxation regimes in place to ensure that we encourage investment in the Northern Territory and economic growth and create further jobs in the Northern Territory.
"But we do have to have some of these harder conversations, as well, to make sure that we have got the right systems in place to benefit the NT."
Experts say under profits-based royalty systems, royalty payments can fluctuate.
They also say that for profits-based systems to be effective, governments need to keep on top of auditing because the regime has a complex system of deductions, and working out the profits of large multi-national companies can be difficult.
In its statement, Glencore said it was audited annually by the NT Treasury against its operating agreements.
It also said over the past five years it had invested $2 billion into the Territory economy.
"We're proud of our contribution and the widespread value it brings — we provide direct employment for about 650 people and in 2016 spent more than $320 million on goods and services, much of which was sourced from local and regional businesses," the statement said.
Glencore declined to comment on the NT Government's possible changes to its royalty regime.

The Australia Institute think-tank this week issued a report on the future viability of the mine.
Both the NT and federal governments are considering the company's Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) application for the mine to keep producing zinc and lead for another 30 years.
"Based on the company's analysis, it's very unclear how you could come to a conclusion that the McArthur River Mine is even a net positive to the Northern Territory economy," report author Rod Campbell told the ABC.
Glencore estimates the mine will pay a total of $435 million in royalties to the NT Government over 1,000 years, but Mr Campbell said that was an unrealistic figure.
"The only known royalty payment of $13 million came in 2008 after a historic peak in the zinc price," the report said.
The EIS estimated Glencore would pay $1 billion in company tax to the Federal Government.
The Australia Institute assessed this as unlikely because, "it is known that the company often pays zero in company tax".
"ATO data shows that despite $108,107,933 in taxable income, Glencore entities paid no company tax in 2014-15," the report said.


The head of energy company AGL, Andy Vesey, is being bullied by the Prime Minister, according to Federal Labor MP Joel Fitzgibbon.
Malcolm Turnbull summoned Mr Vesey to Canberra for a meeting on Monday over AGL's plan to close the Liddell power plant in 2022.
The PM wants AGL to keep the plant open for at least another five years or sell it to another company, like Delta Energy Systems which is open to buying it.
The Government emphasised Mr Vesey agreed on Monday to ask the AGL board to consider keeping the power station open longer.
But Mr Vesey told the ABC the company could find the best solution for the market without extending the life of the power plant or selling it.
Mr Fitzgibbon challenged Energy Minister Josh Frydenberg in the parliamentary corridors this morning and accused him of misrepresenting Mr Vesey's position.
"I think you're embarrassed for every day you've got to roll out and support the Prime Minister's desperate attempts to mislead the Australian community," Mr Fitzgibbon said in a heated exchange as the two men were in the parliamentary press gallery for interviews.
Mr Frydenberg hit back, accusing the Labor MP of defending big energy companies.
"You know that 10 per cent of New South Wales' power comes from Liddell. You know that there's energy companies making record profits on the back of Australian families," the Energy Minister said.
Mr Turnbull kept the pressure on AGL this morning, saying they were making a fortune from coal-fired power.
Liberal backbencher Craig Kelly accused AGL of being duplicitous.
"This seems to be completely contrary to the information that was coming out of the meeting with the Prime Minister and I think it appears AGL speaks with forked tongue," he said.

"I am a little bit angry, but it [does not] surprise me whatsoever — we've seen AGL, probably one of our biggest corporate villains, they've cut off tens of thousands of Australians, they've disconnected them from their electricity because of the high cost of electricity, they've been rallying against coal at a time when 80 per cent of their generation comes from coal.
"They seem to be saying one thing and doing another thing — they're claiming they're this clean green company when predominately they're a coal generator."
There has been an open tug-of-war between the Government and AGL over the future of the Liddell power plant.
Coalition MP Matt Canavan has questioned why the company wants to close the plant — rather than sell it.
"I have serious concerns that their current proposal to shut Liddell power station is about boosting their profits than protecting the energy system — it's certainly not about saving the planet, that's certainly not what AGL are doing, and I think that's becoming transparently clear."
Shadow energy minister Mark Butler said AGL's motive was clear and simple.
"AGL is the only group that's crunched the numbers of the viability of extending the Liddell power station after 50 years of age, and after it crunched the numbers it came to the view it didn't stack up," he said.
AGL will now prepare a plan for the Government, outlining how it will avoid a market short-fall if it closes the plant.

It will deliver that plan in 90 days, but Frank Jotzo, the director of the Centre for Climate Economics and Policy at the Australian National University, said the outcome was obvious.
"AGL have very clearly stated that the intent is to close Liddell and more broadly that they do not see a future for coal-fired electricity generation in Australia beyond the lifetime of the existing power plant — and there really is no reason why they would change their mind about that," he said.
Professor Jotzo was asked why Mr Vesey agreed to take the Government's request to the AGL board.
"I don't know what goes on in these discussions but I guess when you're being called in by the Prime Minister to take a proposal to your board you might say yes — and I guess in that context — we can observe it is highly unusual for Government to exert pressure on an individual company and intervene in an ad hoc way in what is a market-based system.
"It's really quite bizarre what we've seen going on here."


Early on Wednesday morning, Apple will pull the wraps off its latest iPhone model.
There's been months of speculation and rumours about what the tech giant will pack into its latest offering.
But after a new version of its operating system — iOS11 — was leaked, we've been given a pretty good look at some of the things Apple will unveil.
Specifically the iPhone 8, the iPhone 8 Plus and... the iPhone X.
Developer Steven Troughton-Smith found the names after digging through that leaked iOS11 software.

Because it's only been a year since we got the iPhone 7, it means Apple is skipping the traditional move of releasing an "S" model of its current iPhone before moving on to the next version.
But why the X?
It's likely to be a special model with a nod to the iPhone's 10th anniversary.
Say goodbye to trying to line your thumb up with the Home button.
The iOS 11 leak has confirmed you'll be able to unlock your phone just by looking at it.
Apple's calling it FaceID and we've already got a look at some of the animations you'll be seeing to set it up.

What's still up in the air is if this feature will make it to all three models because...
The hot-tip is the number-less version of Apple's new phone will come with an OLED screen that just about covers the entire front surface.
The new design has been all-but confirmed by website 9to5Mac, which dug up images from inside iOS11 which show the new form.
It's probably why Apple has decided to go the FaceID route on the X. With all that screen there isn't room for the Home button that's been a part of the iPhone since its launch in 2007.
We don't know if the Home button, or the OLED screen, will make an appearance on the iPhone 8.
Samsung raised eyebrows with its $1,499 price tag for its Galaxy Note 8 and the rumours say the iPhone X might fly close to that mark.
It also might arrive a bit later than cheaper iPhone 8 models because of production delays on those OLED screens, according to TechCrunch.
They're called "Animoji".

They'll use facial tracking and your voice to create animated versions of your favourite emoji.
Yes....even the poo emoji.

There's references in iOS11 to a revised version of the AirPods Apple released when it killed off the headphone jack with the iPhone 7.
Apple is all in on wireless, for better or worse.
The big keynote speech begins at 3:00am on Wednesday. Set your alarm clocks!


Energy provider AGL appears to be ruling out selling or extending the life of the Liddell power station, despite the Federal Government declaring that is still an option.

Energy Minister Josh Frydenberg said yesterday's meeting between AGL and the Government ended with a range of options, including keeping the Liddell plant open for an extra five years beyond 2022.
After the 90-minute meeting, Mr Frydenberg said AGL's managing director had agreed to ask the company's board to consider delaying the closure or selling the power station.
But the company's chief executive Andy Vesey appeared to strike that down.
"I think that we are committed to finding the best solution for the market, we believe we can deliver that without having to consider the extension or sell the plant and that's what we're going to work on," Mr Vesey told the ABC.
Mr Frydenberg said AGL had also proposed an alternative which was to produce the equivalent amount of electricity from another source.
Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull announced last week he wanted AGL to keep the Liddell power station, the oldest coal-fired plant still running in Australia, operating for five years beyond its due closure date in 2022.
After that, Mr Vesey tweeted that "keeping old coal power plants open won't deliver the reliable, affordable energy our customers need".
He said AGL was "getting out of coal" and emphasised it was committed to the closure of the Liddell power station in 2022, the end of its operating life.
Despite those comments apparently opposing the Government's plan, Mr Frydenberg said yesterday's meeting between Mr Vesey and the Prime Minister and other Cabinet ministers was constructive.
Mr Frydenberg said AGL did not ask the Federal Government to pay yesterday for keeping the power station open longer.
"That was not the discussion today," he said.

Earlier, AGL issued a statement indicating it was still committed to closing the power plant.
"Following today's meeting with the Prime Minister, we have committed to deliver a plan in 90 days of the actions AGL will take to avoid a market shortfall once the Liddell coal-fired power station retires in 2022."
Mr Vesey's statement said renewables with gas back-up would be the favoured power source in the short-term, and beyond that it would be large-scale batteries supporting renewables.
"In this environment, we just don't see new development of coal as economically rational, even before factoring in a carbon cost," he said in the statement.
In a further sign AGL did not favour the Government's plan to keep Liddell open, Mr Vesey said by giving advanced notice of the closure of its coal-fired plants, including Liddell, AGL was meeting one of the 49 recommendations in the Finkel report that had been accepted by the Government.
"The long notice period we have given reflects our commitment to managing carbon risk for shareholders and avoiding the volatility created by recent sudden withdrawal of capacity," Mr Vesey said.
Energy spokesman for the Greens Adam Bandt said the Prime Minister's meeting with AGL had been a "fizzer".
"AGL's board will discuss what they were going to discuss anyway," he said.
"Given AGL indicated to the minister that their preference is for additional new supply and that the company is getting out of coal, we are expecting to see a plan in 90 days for more renewables and storage."


The Federal Government is being urged to make the introduction of driverless cars a priority, in the hope of slashing the road toll.
But a report delivered today acknowledges there are plenty of questions over the technology's introduction to Australian roads.
It considered the full range of what it calls 'automated vehicles' — from cars and trucks that can take some control over steering and speed, to cars that can control the entire operation, giving the passenger no responsibility at all.

They include how automated vehicles will respond in dangerous situations, liability for accidents, the potential for vehicles to be hacked, and ownership of data the car produces.
But the parliamentary report found that given the potential for a dramatic reduction in fatalities and other accidents, those questions should be answered quickly.

The Standing Committee on Industry, Innovation, Science and Resources specifically looked into social issues surrounding the vehicles' introduction.
It found the technology will need to earn a "social licence" before it is widely accepted, and overcome the general discomfort some may feel about having a computer take control of their car.
The committee found the best way to overcome many of these issues is literally put people behind the wheel of a driverless car: It urged the Government to run public trials "that enable members of the public to experience automated vehicles on public roads".
The committee's chair, Nationals MP Michelle Landry, said public nervousness about automated vehicles was to be expected.
"It will take a while, people are always a bit wary of what they don't know and don't understand," she said.
"But I think the more we have things like automated buses, automated trains, I do believe that the taxi industry will probably get on board early in the piece, that it will be more accepted.
"But I think the advantages will outweigh the disadvantages."

The report identified the enormous potential to improve safety on the roads as the single most significant change automated vehicles will bring.
It heard evidence that human error may be a factor in over 90 percent of crashes — meaning if human error could eventually be eliminated, the number of road accidents could potentially plummet.

The committee concluded the safety gains are so great, they alone make the technology worth pursuing.
"Given the wide range of witnesses arguing that autonomous, or even highly automated, vehicles could lead to a substantial reduction in the number of deaths and injuries on Australian roads, the committee is of the view that this important social goal should make the introduction of these vehicles a priority for Australia," it found.
It also tackled the complex issue of ethics around driverless vehicles — in particular, who takes responsibility when they crash.
Car manufacturer Volvo has indicated it is willing to accept "full liability for damages or injuries whenever one of its cars is in full autonomous mode".
It called on the Federal Government to mandate that all other car manufacturers eventually selling autonomous vehicles take the same position.

Ms Landry said clear regulation in the area will be required.
"I'm actually thinking it might have to be federal legislation, so it goes right across the country," she said.
"Because it's a whole different way of operating vehicles."
The question becomes more complex when it comes to partially automated cars — a likely stepping stone on the way to fully driverless vehicles.
The report did not land on a firm position on the question, but stated it is critical the public is made part of the process, as the tricky questions are eventually answered.
Autonomous vehicles will bring opportunity, but will also undoubtedly cost jobs.
The most obvious are professional drivers: in trucking, public transport, taxi driving and elsewhere.

It's not just drivers however, with the impact to reach as far as crash repairers, traffic police, insurers, and even lawyers put out of work by the reduction in traffic accidents.
The committee heard evidence that while new jobs will be created, automated vehicles will likely result in an overall reduction in jobs.
But Ms Landry put forward an optimistic view, that it is hard to predict the jobs of the future.
"It's the same as now, when we say to the kids starting school that a lot of the jobs they'll have haven't even been thought of yet," she said.
"It's very exciting, we're excited about it all — and there's a lot more to come with it."
It was also suggested that given the decades it will take for the technology to fully roll out, many people currently in driving occupations will have retired by the time their job becomes redundant.
The movement towards self-driving cars suffered a blow in 2015, when Fiat Chrysler had to recall 1.4 million cars in the United States over the potential for them to be hacked.
Hacking becomes an even greater concern when cars are being driven entirely by computers.
But David Pickett from Volvo Australia assured the committee it was no longer possible.
"For someone to get in and start controlling something is quite a different design to what the car is set up to do," he said.
"It is not designed to take that sort of input."
But the report is recommending the National Cyber Security Strategy look into autonomous vehicles regardless.
It also raised the issue of data security, given autonomous cars will be collecting large quantities of data on when and where people travel.
It recommended further investigation into establishing exactly who owns data produced by a car, and the rights of consumers, manufacturers, insurers and government agencies.



For nearly a decade, residents in and around Ellenbrook have been told they could get a new train line — only to be left disappointed.
But the McGowan Government is adamant its decision not to allocate any money to construct a new line to Ellenbrook is not another let-down for people in Perth's north-east.
While the only money in last week's budget for the Ellenbrook train line was funds to plan and develop a business case, Transport Minister Rita Saffioti insisted the project would not be delayed.
Under existing plans, that would mean construction underway in 2019 and trains running on the line in 2022.
"We are in the process of planning for that project," Ms Saffioti said.
"We are starting from scratch on that project, there was no planning done, so we are going through that business case exercise."
Both major parties promised ahead of the 2008 election to build an Ellenbrook train line, but the Liberal-National Government dumped the plan after coming into office.
Shadow treasurer Dean Nalder said Ellenbrook residents would rightly be sceptical about whether the new government would deliver the new line without money in the budget to construct it.
"There has to be budget for it and they haven't allowed for that, so it looks like another broken promise," he said.
"They had this as an election commitment in 2008 so you'd think they would have it worked up by now."
But Ms Saffioti said she would be trying to lock in federal funding for the Ellenbrook line "as soon as possible", having previously won Commonwealth support for the Government's other Metronet plans.

Last week's budget also revealed nearly $200 million in Metronet cost blowouts in the six months since the election.
The price of the new Thornlie-to-Cockburn train line and the extension of the Joondalup line to Yanchep have both risen considerably since Labor's pre-election forecasts, which were not scrutinised by Treasury.
But Treasurer Ben Wyatt downplayed the increased cost.
"It is budget one, there is still work to do on these projects but I am fairly relaxed they will come in as we expect," Mr Wyatt said.
"We have to actually plan these projects … it's not just about having the money in the budget, you have got to do the work around it."
The first stage of Metronet also includes an extension of the Armadale line to Byford.


Qantas executives grilled about why regional airfares in Western Australia can be so expensive have rejected suggestions they are "gouging" residents, seeking to blame high regional airport costs.
A state parliamentary inquiry is examining why regional airfares are high and what the airlines and WA Government could do about it.
In an at-times heated exchange, Economics and Industry Standing Committee chair Jessica Shaw told Qantas executives that when people from across regional WA needed to quickly book a plane ticket for a family or health emergency, they faced "exorbitant fares".
"It's not a luxury for these people. It's a necessity," she said.
"Communities are hurting," Ms Shaw added, asking the executives where the airline's compassion and corporate social responsibility to these towns was.
Qantas Domestic chief executive Andrew David said that type of last minute, high cost airfare accounted for only 2 per cent of total travel.
But he said Qantas had sought recently to address the issue by announcing discounts of up to 30 per cent for people living in six regional centres.

Qantas also argued its airfares to regional WA were lower now than in 2013, even though demand had dropped significantly with the mining slowdown.
Mr David said a key problem driving up airfares was that eight of the state's regional airports were among the top 15 most expensive in its domestic network, with high maintenance, labour and other costs.
But Ms Shaw said the inquiry had heard in earlier hearings that airport costs were a very small proportion of plane fares.
Airports Association of Australia chief executive Caroline Wilkie later told the hearing airport costs made up only 5-13 per cent of regional airfares, and most regional airports operated at a loss.
But Qantas group executive for government and industry Andrew Parker did not accept the premise airport costs were an insignificant part of airfares.
He said Broome airport cost airlines double what Cairns did.
"So something is not right here," Mr Parker said.
Mr Parker denied Qantas was making large profits in regional WA, saying airlines made only $7 profit per passenger per flight.
He said many WA regional routes were unique in that they were driven by the mining sector, with planes leaving Perth full and returning almost empty, and price discounting would not help to fill those return flights.
Committee member Stephen Price wanted the executives to give the inquiry detailed information on how fares were priced to help address community concern and anger.
"In their view, you are gouging them for everyday transport," Mr Price said.
Mr Parker promised to give the committee more information if commercially possible.
Asked about the prospect of regulating failing routes, he said regulation had historically not worked and had even driven up prices.
Qantas argued for greater government investment to stimulate regional tourism, welcoming the Government's $36 million pledge in last week's budget to grow the industry.
It also wants a change in the way airlines and airport operators negotiated costs, to try and drive down what they pay.


The Ten Network's administrators have caved to pressure from "disappointed underbidders", and provided further details on why it chose to sell the embattled network to US broadcaster CBS.
The underbidders in this case are billionaire investors Bruce Gordon and Lachlan Murdoch, whose joint bid lost out to CBS.
Their pressure culminated in Mr Gordon (through his companies Birketu and WIN Corporation) launching an urgent case in the Supreme Court of NSW last week, due to alleged deficiencies in the creditors' report.
The key deficiency is namely that the report "fails to include adequate information" on the billionaire duo's competing bid.
But KordaMentha maintains that its second creditors' report (released September 4) "was both compliant and provided the necessary and material information required by creditors to make an informed decision on the future of the Ten Network".
The first stage of Mr Gordon's court action was successful as it resulted in the next creditors' meeting being postponed by one week (to September 19).
The primary considerations, in comparing the competing bids, include the financial return to creditors, "complexity and risks" (including "certainty of execution and structure") and the "timeframe for completion", said KordaMentha partner, Mark Korda.
In its supplementary report released on Monday, KordaMentha sought to explain that the CBS bid was a "superior" deal for creditors by comparing the financial aspects of both bids.
CBS would return $32 million to creditors (or 12.43c in the dollar), while the Gordon-Murdoch deal — through their private companies Birketu and Illyria — would give back a lower amount of $27.6 million (or 10.58 cents in the dollar).
The administrators also took into account the conditions of both deals, and decided that "the CBS transaction was more certain as it had a lower execution risk".

Messrs Gordon and Murdoch are banking on the Federal Government passing the Media Law Reform Bill, which Labor, The Greens and many crossbenchers strongly oppose.
The extent of their significant media ownership interests currently prevents them from taking over the Ten Network.
If the bill is passed, it would abolish the "two out of three rule", which prevents an individual or a company owning a newspaper, TV station and radio station in the same licence area.
It would also remove the "75 per cent audience reach rule", which prevents a single TV broadcaster from reaching more than 75 per cent of the population.
CBS has the clear advantage in that it can acquire Ten without the need for Australia's media laws to be specially amended.
The administrators, who are highly critical of Mr Gordon's court action, said, "It is not the usual practice of administrators to report details of underbidders."
"It is disappointing that Birketu [Mr Gordon's company] either directly or via related parties have pursued court action, delaying the creditors vote and putting at risk the certainty provided to 750 employees and creditors under the CBS transaction."
This matter will continue to be heard by the Supreme Court of NSW on Tuesday and Wednesday.


A team of students at Adelaide's Flinders University has built a solar-powered car that can carry three people, to compete in this year's World Solar Challenge (WSC).
Teams are now gearing up ahead of the 3,000 kilometre race from Darwin to Adelaide, which will feature solar cars from around the world.
This is the first year Flinders University has taken part.
"Our aim initially is to finish the race — that's first and foremost," said team director Stuart Wildy, at the launch of the car.
"Being the first time we're not expecting to win the competition, but we're hoping to get across the line."
Flinders will compete in the cruiser class, in which teams are also judged on the practicality of their cars.
"The original design that we had for the car was to try and have it as a normal, standard, road family car ... something people would like to see and like to drive," Dr Wildy said.
He said time constraints meant some design elements had to be scrapped.
"One of the features we didn't get in there this year is regenerative suspension, but hopefully that'll be for 2019.
"We were able to get a windshield which is made out of gorilla glass, which is lightweight material ... and the solar cells are encapsulated in fibreglass."

Dr Wildy said there was still much work to do on the vehicle, and getting it ready in time would come "down a little bit to the wire".
"Most of the mechanical work is done. The next stage is to put all the electronics in there so we can actually start driving the vehicle," he said.
"Most of that's been prototyped on our little prototype vehicle we've got and so from there we should just be able to put the components in and off we go."
The team of about 20 people will leave for Darwin later this month.
"We've got a great team, they've been fantastic. We've got people who are engineers, IT, business. We've also got a nutritionist who's designed the meal plan for us."
The race begins in Darwin on October 8, with the winners expected to cross the finish line in Victoria Square around October 12.


The consumer watchdog is ramping up its warnings about scammers who are targeting older victims to pay for alleged services with iTunes gift cards.
The ACCC says more than 1,200 people have lost $540,000 so far this year to scammers who ask for serial numbers of the cards and then quickly sell them elsewhere for profit.
The fraudsters are posing as representatives from the Australian Tax Office, Telstra and Centrelink and cold call victims offering to help fast track pension payments or to resolve technical problems.

One victim of the scam, 74-year-old Richard from regional Victoria, said he normally is able to spot scams quite confidently.
"There was a computer-generated voice saying it was Centrelink in Canberra, and there'd been a cock-up in their system and I was owed $2,480 in back pension, and I was to phone this number ASAP," Richard said.
"[The man who I spoke to] was quite convincing, and said that to retrieve this money, I had to buy $300 worth of iTunes.
"I went to Coles, bought the tickets, came home and phone him back. I had to give him a swag of numbers so he could validate them."
Once the scam caller had the codes, they would have sold the value of the card over the internet and moved on to their next victim.
"If you told me this story I wouldn't believe it. I would say nobody could be that bloody stupid," Richard said.
Deputy ACCC chair Delia Rickard said scammers typically create a sense of fear or urgency to manipulate their victims.
"A lot of people do find it embarrassing, but I think what we have to remember is just how good scammers are at convincing people and turning off that rational side of their brain," Ms Rickard said.
"They'll pretend to be the Tax Office telling you that you owe tax, they'll pretend to be Telstra asking to help them catch a hacker, or possibly Centrelink saying you're entitled to more benefits.
"They will then ask you to go and purchase iTunes gift cards. It could be hundreds of dollars, but sometimes thousands of dollars' worth."

Ms Rickard said the best practice to follow if you receive a call asking for payment through an iTunes gift card is to hang up immediately.
"Often they will keep you on the phone for the entire process, walk you down to the supermarket, wait while you get the cards and then get you to read the numbers back," she said.
"I think the main group we see falling victim to this are the over-65s, and on the whole they're not too familiar with iTunes gift cards unless they buy them for grandkids."
The ACCC is now working with sellers of iTunes gift cards to report bulk purchases that might look suspicious.
Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter @peter_f_ryan and on his Main Street blog.


Up to a third of Australian mortgages could be "liar loans" based on factually inaccurate information, investment bank UBS has warned.

The global banking giant has followed up a survey of home loan borrowers that it first conducted last year, when it found evidence of widespread mortgage fraud.
The latest detailed survey of more than 900 people who took out a home loan in 2017 has found that only 67 per cent responded that their mortgage was "completely factual and accurate", down from 72 per cent of 2016 borrowers.
The vast majority of the mistruths appear to be white lies rather than total porkies, with a quarter of 2017 survey respondents saying their loan application was "mostly factual and accurate". Only 8 per cent admitted to their information being only "partially factual and accurate", and 1 per cent refused to say.
If anything, UBS believes its survey would understate the prevalence of mortgage misrepresentations as some people would be nervous about admitting it, even anonymously.
"It is highly unlikely respondents would have stated that they misrepresented their mortgage application when in fact they were truthful," the bank noted in the report.
Given the average turnover of home loans in Australia, UBS has estimated that around $500 billion worth of outstanding home loans contain misstatements about incomes, assets, existing debts and/or expenses.
With just under $1.7 trillion of mortgage debt outstanding, that means home loans based on inaccurate or fraudulent information account for 29 per cent of the total, and 18 per cent of all private sector debt in Australia.
The most common lie was understating living costs (30 per cent), while understating other debts or overstating income or assets each accounted for around 15 per cent of misrepresentations.
Given that the average scale of the misstatement across income, expenses, assets and living expenses was between 10-12 per cent, UBS has warned that it makes Australia's banks even more vulnerable to a housing downturn than most people think.

"This survey suggests many people have come to take house price inflation as a given and are prepared to be factually inaccurate on their mortgage application to ensure they get access to housing leverage," UBS warned in the report.
The investment bank has an "underweight", or sell, rating on Australian banks and has warned that loan losses may be bigger than expected given that many borrowers are in a much weaker financial position than the banks and regulators believe.
That would lead to even worse consequences for the Australian economy than policymakers expect if the housing market turns down.
UBS also warned that the banks may be vulnerable to litigation if home prices stop rising and over-indebted customers start defaulting.
It argued that more needs to be done by the banks to verify loan applications, starting with a requirement to see lodged tax returns.
This year, UBS also broke down its numbers by financial institution.

ANZ Bank had the highest proportion of mortgages that were not "completely factual and accurate", with 45 per cent falling into the investment bank's category of "liar loans", a term borrowed from the US subprime mortgage crisis.
That was significantly above the industry average of 33 per cent, as was NAB's level of loan approvals that contained misrepresentations or inaccuracies.
"A survey of 907 people covering all of the major banks is an extremely limited sample given ANZ has more than 1 million home loans," an ANZ spokesperson said, in response to UBS's findings.
"We have processes in place designed to ensure our home loans continue to be assessed conservatively.
"This includes applying an interest rate floor of 7.25 per cent and using the higher of either the customer-stated expenses or a benchmark based on independent data provided by the Melbourne Institute.
"The survey reinforces the need for the introduction of Comprehensive Credit Reporting which ANZ strongly supports."
ANZ's chief executive Shayne Elliott told investors at its most recent quarterly profit update that it was growing owner-occupied lending "much faster than the market" and was "really comfortable with that".
All four major banks recorded a much higher level of dodgy mortgage approvals than the rest of the financial sector (at 23 per cent).

Loans taken out through brokers had a much higher rate of misrepresentation than those who applied directly through a bank (39 per cent less than wholly truthful, versus 25 per cent).

Worryingly, 37 per cent of borrowers who got their loan through a broker and lied on the application said it was at the broker's suggestion — only 8 per cent of bank customers said it was a banker who suggested lying.
Also concerning for regulators would be the 46 per cent of customers who thought their latest loan application was easier than previous ones, versus only 17 per cent who thought it was harder.
The bank regulator APRA has asked banks to tighten their loan tests to ensure financial stability, but the survey shows that loan verification practices appear to be virtually unchanged in terms of documentation required.
"We found these responses disappointing," UBS lamented.
"We believe there is little evidence to suggest customers are finding it more difficult to attain credit or that mortgage underwriting standards are being tightened from a customer's perspective."
UBS also broke down its numbers by state. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the nation's two most expensive property markets, New South Wales and Victoria, were also the ones with the highest rate of less-than-honest mortgage applications.
A third of New South Wales and ACT borrowers fudged at least some figures on their loan application, while 31 per cent of Victorians and Tasmanians did likewise.
Western Australia had the same rate of inaccuracy as Victoria, while around three-quarters of South Australians, Queenslanders and Northern Territorians were totally honest in their loan documents.


A Singapore-based developer has been accused of giving Sydney a "two-fingered salute" by demolishing much of the historic facade of an inner-city building in order to construct an apartment block.
The $21 million project will see three amalgamated 1912 Edwardian terraces in Potts Point replaced by a modern eight-storey tower.
The City of Sydney approved the demolition of the existing Hensley Hall building, with the exception of the Bayswater Road facade.

But the recent removal of hoardings shows most of the facade had been removed, leaving two thin gables rising up on each end of the 25-metre frontage.
The City of Sydney confirmed in a statement that some elements of the facade that were to be retained have been removed.
"The City is currently investigating the unauthorised removal and considering the heritage impact of the work undertaken."
Potts Point and Kings Cross Heritage and Residents Society president Andrew Woodhouse said he believed the facade was demolished about 18 months ago, however it was hidden behind hoarding.
"We had assumed that what was happening was in accordance with the development consent," he said.

He said he and other local residents discovered that the heritage facade had been largely demolished when the hording was taken down about 10 days ago.
He said workers began putting back up the hoarding over the weekend.
"There is now two gables left facing Bayswater Road and they appear to be two fingers sticking up, and that's symbolic of the developer giving the two-finger salute to the community over our heritage," he said.
The 930 square metre site is not a heritage item but is a contributory item within the Potts Point Conservation Area.
Over the years it operated as a private hotel and boarding house. Well-known local busker and collector Barry Minhinnick was evicted after 20 years living in the building and acting as its caretaker.
The garden he created out of found objects on the corner of Ward Avenue and Bayswater Road featured in newspapers, magazines and on ABC TV's Gardening Australia.

Mr Woodhouse has written to the council claiming the demolition was "wilful, negligent and/or deliberate".
He has asked the council to fine the developer or commence legal action as well as ordering the facade be reinstated at the developer's expense.
The developer, Roxy-Pacific, has been contacted for comment.


The economic arguments being used by mining giant Glencore in its application to keep expanding its controversial McArthur River Mine are "almost comical" according to a report by think tank the Australia Institute.
Both the Northern Territory and Federal Governments are considering the company's Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) application for the mine in the Gulf of Carpentaria to keep producing zinc and lead for another 30 years.
Glencore was ordered to submit the EIS in 2014 after reactive rock on its waste dump started burning, sending smoke over nearby Indigenous communities.
In the EIS Glencore said: "This project estimates significant benefits arising from the approved mine life, with taxes and royalties exceeding $1.5 billion over the four phases, jobs for approximately 840 people, and continuing community investment through the … Community Benefits Trust."
But a report by the Canberra-based Australia Institute, Wishful Zinking, has raised multiple questions about the company's argument that the financial benefits offered by the project outweigh the environmental risks.

"The modelling and economic analysis in these EIS documents … are based on assumptions that are, at times, almost comical," the report said.
"Based on the company's analysis, it's very unclear how you could come to a conclusion that the McArthur River Mine is even a net positive to the Northern Territory economy," report author Rod Campbell told the ABC.
Glencore estimates the mine will pay a total of $435 million in royalties to the NT Government over 1,000 years.
Mr Campbell said this figure was unrealistic because, "In most years, Glencore doesn't pay royalties for McArthur River Mine at all".
This is because the NT has a profits-based, rather than production-based, royalties system, unlike most other states.

"The only known royalty payment of $13 million came in 2008 after a historic peak in the zinc price," the report said.
The EIS estimated Glencore would pay $1.035 billion in company tax to the Federal Government.
The Australia Institute assessed this as unlikely because, "It is known that the company often pays zero in company tax".
"ATO data shows that despite $108,107,933 in taxable income, Glencore entities paid no company tax in 2014-15," the report said.
The EIS estimated the company's payroll tax would be $117.4 million over 1,000 years, even though for the last 945 years of the project only four employees were expected to be needed to monitor the site.
"It's comical. Economists don't like to forecast anything over 20 years at the most," Mr Campbell said.
"Here we've got tax revenues forecast over 1,000 years. This is unprecedented."
On jobs, the report said: "Glencore estimates that only 4 per cent of the mine's workforce will be local people. Others will be fly-in, fly-out."
The company estimated it would put $27 million into its Community Benefits Trust and provide, "generous contributions to local health, education, cultural and capacity building initiatives, and the funding of vital public services".
"There is no doubt the trust has helped upgrade the local store, with fencing and provided machinery to local businesses," Mr Campbell said.
"But the local area's vital health and education services are funded almost entirely by government."
The report also pointed out that in its EIS, Glencore suggested there may need to be government funding to keep managing the site for the project's last 945 years.
"The economic assessment is wilfully myopic in terms of potential environmental costs, and makes no attempt to weigh that up in dollar figure terms in relation to any potential economic benefits," Mr Campbell said.

"From an economic perspective, it is likely that the best approach would be to close the mine and rehabilitate the site and to ensure this is paid for by Glencore," the report concluded.
However, the economic implications of the project could change before the two governments make their decision on the EIS.
The NT Government is considering changing its royalty system to include a production-based element, which could collect more money from the mine.
"The first thing we need to do is consult and talk to the right people and that's what we'll continue to do before any decision's made, but any decision will not be made without input from the industry," NT Resources Minister Ken Vowles said.
Glencore responded by providing a statement to the ABC saying it, "had no participation in the Australia Institute's report".
The company added: "It should be noted that the economic forecasts in our draft EIS have been calculated using a wide range of factors by an independent and respected consulting firm."


Governments could be making the nation's energy security crisis worse through rushed interventions to soothe voter concerns about surging energy bills, the Grattan Institute warns.
The warning comes as the Prime Minister prepares to meet AGL chief executive Andy Vesey today over the planned closure of the Liddell power station in the NSW Hunter Valley by 2022.
The Grattan Institute's Tony Wood urged against the Government "arm twisting" Mr Vesey to keep Liddell open in the face of the company's commitment to eventually dump coal-fired power generation entirely.
"I think there's almost certainly a deal to be done there, but I think AGL would have a very strong view that their corporate position and their advertising says they're getting out of coal," Mr Wood said.

"It's quite possible that a commercial arrangement that suits AGL and satisfies the concerns the Government has is the way forward. But it's going to be a tricky pathway to follow."
Treasurer Scott Morrison said he was prepared to help AGL sell Liddell to a "responsible party" but repeated the importance of keeping it open to ensure future power supplies.
But Mr Wood counselled against any plan for the Government to intervene and possibly buy a guarantee to keep Liddell open, warning any perception of nationalisation would destabilise the market.
"I think it is always a bad idea for governments to intervene because then we're heading back towards re-nationalisation," he said.
"It is understandable that governments feel the need to do something, but the danger is they will rush in and make things worse. What Australia needs now is perspective, not panic."
Instead, the Grattan Institute report said all sides of politics should work with energy companies and regulators on new ways to ensure reliable and affordable electricity supplies years ahead.
It suggests work needs to begin now on a "capacity mechanism" to encourage companies to invest in new power generation to reduce the growing threat of shortages and blackouts as early as this summer.

With such a mechanism, according to the report, energy companies could be paid for committing to providing power years into the future rather than only meeting the current demand.
However, the report warns the price of peace of mind for energy security would ultimately fall on consumers through higher energy prices.
"Eventually the customer pays for all of this. That's why it's very important to get this right to ensure we have the insurance we need to make sure we have the capacity in the future," Mr Wood said.
Last week, the Australian Energy Market Operator urged "a longer-term approach" in a bid to ensure electricity supplies.
The Grattan Institute report urged the Government to implement the recommendations of the Finkel Review, including a clean energy target to put a price on greenhouse gas emissions.
It also wants a more comprehensive assessment of future energy adequacy of generated supply and if capacity cannot be met, AEMO should introduce a new capacity mechanism.
Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter @peter_f_ryan and on his Main Street blog.


An operation has resumed this morning to rescue a humpback whale caught in a cray pot rope off the coast of Western Australia.
Authorities were alerted to the plight of the eight-metre whale after a call from a member of the public about 11am on Sunday.
Fremantle Sea Rescue skipper Josh Gammon-Carson said the whale was trapped in what appeared to be a cray pot or octopus pot rope.
"It was swimming around in circles and looked in distress," Mr Gammon-Carson said.
"It had a rope wrapped around its body in front of its fin and another one through its mouth."
For more than seven hours, 13 officers from Parks and Wildlife and the Fremantle Sea Rescue were on the water, "trying different techniques to try and slow down the whale to cut free the ropes".
Rescuers followed the humpback whale to Trigg, but the rescue was suspended just before 6:00pm due to fading light.
The whale has not been spotted today.
Parks and Wildlife senior marine officer John Edwards said it was important they found the whale.
"The animal's in that 8-10 metre range, so it has still got a lot of growing to do, and the rope won't grow with it," Mr Edwards said.
"So unless it parts and falls off or we're able to get to it and cut it off, the long-term prognosis for the animal is not as good as we'd hope."
Whales are commonly known to migrate along the coast of WA in September travelling towards Antarctica for summer.
"This time of year is fantastic for whale watching, but unfortunately we do get incidents like this," Mr Gammon-Carson said.
The skipper said it was important other people on the water were cautious around the animals and gave the emergency vessels space to help them.
"Have a look at the whales, but do remain clear. It is against the law to drive a boat within 100 metres of a whale," he said.
"If you do see a whale in distress contact Fremantle Sea Rescue or the Department of Parks and Wildlife directly, we can assist."



North Korea has business interests in parts of Asia, Africa, the Middle East and even Europe that bring in billions of dollars for the regime, despite international sanctions aimed at curbing the country's nuclear program.

An investigation that will air on Four Corners has revealed how these international businesses help fund the lavish lifestyles of leader Kim Jong-un and those close to him.
Former members of the regime and intelligence officers have described how Kim's so-called "royal economy" works.
"Many have the view that North Korea's actually extremely, extremely isolated from the international community, that it doesn't have trade relations with the outside world, bar China, but the truth couldn't be further from that," defence analyst Andrea Berger said.
"North Korea is very sophisticated in concealing the fact that it is, indeed, North Korea doing business overseas. It's good at hiding in plain sight."

North Korea has a mysterious government department, known as Office 39, that operates as a kind of royal slush fund.
"On paper Office 39 is just another department in the Korean Workers Party, but in practice Office 39 is the ultimate slush fund," Ms Berger said.
"It mixes both illicit and licit activity and creates that kind of support internally in North Korea to keep the leadership and the elite happy."
Office 39 is thought to bring in up to $1.6 billion a year for the Kim family.
Earlier this year, the assassination of Kim Jong-un's half brother, Kim Jong-nam, at Kuala Lumpur airport with the chemical agent VX, revealed a frightening new capacity for the dictator.
"Chemical agents, in general, used in a military context can be loaded into bombs, mines, mortars, that type of thing," Hugh Gregg, from the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, said.

"All chemical agents could kill huge numbers of people if it's delivered effectively for their purposes."
The assassination also exposed how deep the regime's operations in Malaysia ran.
"Malaysia was regarded as a kind of window for North Korea to go abroad because Malaysia is a visa-free country for North Korea," the former North Korean deputy ambassador to the UK, Thae Yong-Ho, said.
"It was a kind of paradise for North Korea to expand their business."

It emerged that there had been more than 1,000 North Koreans living and working in Malaysia.
Many worked on road building and other development projects, but Ms Berger said North Korea also ran a military communications company called Glocom out of Malaysia.
"Glocom was a network selling military communications out of Malaysia, marketing arms and related material overseas, pretending to be a Malaysian arms manufacturer but, indeed, was behind the scenes in North Korea, selling its technology to parts of Africa, the Middle East and potentially South East Asia," she said.

Ms Berger said North Korea's business activity stretches as far as Europe.
"North Korea's national insurance company was able to operate in the UK," she said.
"It's not believed that North Korea has strong links in the conventional sense to the United States, but we have seen that North Korea is able to access products from the United States of America.

"Kim Jong-un's motorcade was armoured in the United States and then re-exported to North Korea without, seemingly, the knowledge of US Customs authorities."
Kim Kwang-Jin, a former North Korean finance worker in Singapore, said the insurance company he worked for sent money directly to the Dear Leader.
"That is Kim family economy. They are making foreign cash from these businesses," he said.
"We make money and withdraw $US20 million cash every year for Kim Jong-il's birthday. So we keep them, count them and put them in 20 boxes, $US1 million each.
"It was regarded as one of the best, profitable organisations in North Korea, in Pyongyang. And we benefit, you know, enjoyed benefit for that."

Despite the international community announcing tougher economic sanctions to address Kim Jong-un's nuclear program, the regime's businesses have continued to operate overseas.
"I would say that UN sanctions on North Korea are like an expanding sieve. No single one of the sanctions measures that have been put in place against North Korea at the UN level enjoys robust global implementation," Ms Berger said.
"If China systemically implemented the sanctions at the UN that it has agreed to that would be a huge step forward but, actually, it's not just China that's important here.
"There's so many countries around the world that have those North Korean business communities, that have those political ties still to North Korea that aren't using the leverage that they too have."

Watch North Korea: Murder in the family at 8:30pm on ABC TV or catch-up on iView.


Tasmania's environmental watchdog will monitor emissions from bunker fuel from cruise ships while they are in port.
A record number of cruise ships will dock at Tasmanian ports this summer, raising environmental concerns and causing division within the tourism industry.

The number of cruise ships has more than doubled in two years and 138 ships are scheduled to visit Hobart's Macquarie Wharf, Burnie, Port Arthur and Wineglass Bay, starting next month.
Some of those ships will burn bunker fuel at port, a cheap low-grade fuel that emits sulphur dioxide.
For the first time, the Environment Protection Authority (EPA) will monitor air quality around Hobart's port to detect if cruise ships are polluting at harmful levels.
The air will be tested every 10 minutes from equipment set up near the CSIRO.
EPA director Wes Ford said he would be taking cruise ship companies to task if ships were burning the fuel unnecessarily.
"The point of the monitoring is to see if we can get a signal from the cruise ships being here and whether we can actually detect the level of sulphur dioxide emissions," Mr Ford said.
"It will also give the community a level of confidence that those emissions are within the national standards."
Hobart City Council Greens Alderman Helen Burnet wanted authorities to go even further and follow Sydney in banning low-grade fuel from being burnt when at port in Hobart.

Alderman Burnett said she would be pushing the council to write to the State and Federal governments calling for a ban.
"Sydney's ban was a result of political pressure, and it's high time we saw the same sort of standards for Hobart," she said.
"We need to see a reduction in the emissions of cruise ship fuels."
Mr Ford said he didn't see the need for a ban yet.
"I think the number of cruise ships that are coming to Hobart are significantly lower than Sydney, but we'll soon find out over this summer what the level of emissions are," he said.
Tourism Industry Council Tasmania chief executive Luke Martin said there was a risk Tasmania could lose control of the rapidly growing cruise ship industry.
"We certainly don't want to go down a path where the perception of doing Tasmania by cruise becomes the norm, because it's not how the industry is structured and not how the industry wants to grow," Mr Martin said.
"If we don't get a hold of it, we're going to quickly lose control.

"There's a real risk we can lose control of a sector of the market that's growing of its own accord, and is inconsistent with the rest of the destination."
Mr Martin said cruise ships represented 25 per cent of the state's visitor numbers, but made up only 1 per cent of tourism spending.
Destination Southern Tasmania chief executive Melinda Anderson said cruise ship visitors gave a well-needed boost to regional areas like Burnie and Port Arthur.
She said they also brought additional visitors to Hobart when hotels were already full, spending almost $200 each on average.
"Whilst they might only be here a short time, they are actually spreading around the region, so we see the cruise sector as a way of introducing visitors to Tasmania and encouraging them to come back," she said.
Ms Anderson said cruise visitors brought $25 million to the state last year and there was a need to strategically plan for cruise ship growth.



Victoria's central highlands are essential to protecting Melbourne's water supply and also contributing $260 million a year to the tourism economy, a new study has found.
The report from the Australian National University (ANU) used an international method recognised by the United Nations to value the ecosystem in the central highlands — an area that spreads north and east of Healesville.
The study estimates the central highlands add $310 million of economic value to the state's water supply and $260 million to tourism, while the controversial native logging industry is worth just $12 million.
A study by Deloitte for the state-owned VicForests last year found native logging and processing helped generate more than $500 million for the state's economy supporting more than 2,000 jobs.
VicForests says the new ANU report does not factor in the value of timber products and processing.
Environmentalists and local tourism operators want much of the area turned into the Great Forest National Park.
They plan to lobby for the national park during next year's state election campaign.
The potential national park is also likely to be an issue in the upcoming Northcote byelection in inner Melbourne, where Labor and the Greens will go head to head.

The central highlands are home to mountain ash trees which have been logged for hardwood production.
It is also the catchment for the majority of Melbourne Water's 10 water storage reservoirs.
VicForests admitted the native hardwood supply is dwindling, a key reason the Heyfield mill in Gippsland decided to close.
The Andrews Government has since moved to buy the ailing business.
Opponents of native timber logging, much of which is used as pulp for paper, said the industry could be supplied with plantation timber, something many in industry acknowledge but argue that transition takes time.
The study said that moving away from harvesting of native forest would contribute to improved "economic, social and environmental benefits for the people of Victoria."
"The net value of ecosystem services would increase if native forest logging were phased out, due to improved ecosystem condition in older forests that continued growing,'' the report said.
By stopping logging, the water catchment would be improved and would maximise "water yield and quality" and increase the amount of water available to Melbourne, it found.
But VicForests chief executive Nathan Trushell said the report substantially downplayed the value of the timber industry.
"The key issue is that the ANU report has only calculated the value add of timber in the forest, rather than the impressive domestic value add from processing and downstream manufacturing to produce high quality timber products,'' he said.
"This is akin to only calculating the value of grape growing for the wine industry while ignoring the substantial value add of producing high quality wine".
VicForests said only 6 per cent of forest in Victoria was available and suitable for native timber harvesting, while more than 70 per cent was located in National Parks and reserve systems.
One of the ANU report's authors David Lindenmayer said old forests were critical to water security.
"A young regenerating forest after logging soaks up most of the water, dries out the water catchments, reduces the amount of water that flows into the dams for the city of Melbourne but also what it does, quite critically, is it increases the risk of the forest burning at much high severity,' he said.

Tourism is a major employer in the region and the report said it would be boosted by ending logging.
Local tourism operators want the attractions to be better recognised and supported by government.
They say a national park would boost domestic and international tourism with some of the world's oldest trees and forests in the region.
Wine growers, including Stephen Powell in the Yarra Valley, also supported the protection of the forests because he said the trees act as an air conditioner for the region during summer by cooling the air that flows into the valley, helping to contribute to the region's terroir.
"It is a really important part of creating the diversity that is the Yarra Valley.'

Strathvea Guest House manager Deanne Eccles said hospitality would also benefit from an end to logging.
"They always ask us about the forest, they ask us about Black Saturday fires, but they also ask about the forest and the future of the forest,'' Ms Eccles said.
"Then when they see it being destroyed and we say that government are doing this they are amazed, they can't believe we are destroying our tourist product."
Environment minister Lily D'Ambrosio said the central highlands were a complex issue and a special taskforce had been working on a solution.
She also said that a national park was a consideration.
"We will come up with the solutions that will ensure that we can protect what is of great value to our community in terms of our wonderful native forests but also of course have a clear eye on the need to look after jobs," Ms D'Ambrosio said.


It may come as a surprise, but there is affordable housing in Melbourne. Even in the inner city.
Less surprising: There is not enough of it.
Now, some Melbourne councils are trying to use their power over zoning to push developers into setting aside more homes for affordable housing.
But their leverage over developers is limited, a situation Hobsons Bay Mayor Sandra Wilson calls "frustrating".

Developer Guy Nelson concedes that the "whole definition of affordable housing is a little grey".
Affordable housing is not the same as public housing.
Apartments are owned by private investors or non-profit housing agencies.
Janie Miller's East Coburg flat costs $250 a week for what she calls her "gorgeous little cubby house".
Her private landlord gets full rent which is subsidised by the Commonwealth by up to 20 per cent.
It gives her and many others on relatively low incomes a place they can afford in Melbourne's often stratospherically expensive market.
If she was charged the full market rate, she could not stay here — in familiar surrounds, and where her adult children live.
"The thought of having to go another 10, 20 kilometres out just to live is really painful," Ms Miller said.

When the Yarra Council rezoned the old Alphington paper mill site, it asked developers to set aside 5 per cent of homes in the project for affordable housing.
Guy Nelson from developer Alpha Partners agreed and is providing 150 units out of the 2,500 being built.
"150 apartments would be something like $90 million worth of value," Mr Nelson said.
But it is not quite what it seems.
Of those 150 units, only 10 are actually being given away.
The other 140 are being leased for 10 years to a non-profit agency, Community Housing Limited.
When those 10 years are up, the developer can then take the units back and sell them on the open market.
Guy Nelson said giving all 150 units away to Community Housing was never considered.
"I think it's crazy economics and no-one would do it," he said.
But Michael Perusco, from non-profit agency Unison Community Housing, said developers make a lot of money from being issued with a planning permit, and that forcing them to surrender a portion of their properties is a fair trade for development approval.
"It makes sense when you're in the midst of a housing affordability crisis to ensure that yes, the developer makes a reasonable profit, but also that you get some public good," Mr Perusco said.
Community Housing Limited's managing director Steve Bevington said the deal with Alpha Partners is the best that can be achieved because there are no other options.
"It depends very much on the individual developer and the individual council," Mr Bevington said.
"In other countries like the UK, there are schemes that have 40 per cent affordable housing."

Other councils are also trying to push developers to provide affordable housing.
Hobsons Bay Council plans to rezone a 67-hectare industrial site at Altona North, providing enough land for 3,000 homes.
In return, it wants at least five per cent of those homes set aside for affordable housing.
Mayor Sandra Wilson would have personally liked 10 per cent but doubts that would be achievable.
So why can't the council — with power over zoning laws — put its foot down?
"We don't have all the power that we would like, because some of the decisions that we make can be challenged at VCAT," Ms Wilson said.
"It's frustrating."
Steve Bevington from Community Housing thinks five per cent is reasonable as a general consideration, but says government incentives could boost the figure to more like 15 per cent - if it used the windfall revenues from Melbourne's property boom.
"There needs to be an overall state-wide policy so developers can price affordable housing developments into their projects," Mr Bevington said.
Victoria's Planning Minister Richard Wynne is not backing the idea of an across-the-board scheme, but said legislation already before parliament, will give councils greater powers to enforce an agreement.
"It's not our intention to go to a mandatory minimum, but certainly there is a very strong appetite we believe for developers and councils to actually join together."
And they will need to get building quickly. The organisation Affordable Development Outcomes last year estimated up to 100,000 Victorians need a cheaper place to live.

With Melbourne's median house price at more than $800,000, buyers' advocate Catherine Cashmore warns affordable housing policies are only tinkering around the edges of a much bigger problem.
The latest analysis by her organisation, Prosper Australia, shows the seven largest developers on the Australian stock exchange hold 15 years' worth of land supply - which they are drip-feeding onto the market to keep prices high.
She has reiterated her call for a major shake-up of the taxation system to remove the generous incentives for investing in housing.
"We breastfed a nation on the notion that the way you grow wealthy is to invest in land and to sit on it and allow the price to go upwards, that does nothing for housing affordability," Ms Cashmore said.
She argues an annual land tax would discourage investors from hoarding land or keeping properties vacant.
"You can't blame the investors, you can't blame the developers, they're doing what they are dictated to do by the tax system and by government policy."


Wall Street battened down the hatches on Friday as Hurricane Irma swept up towards Florida and North Korea prepared some industrial scale fireworks for the 69th anniversary of Kim family domination.
The S&P500 edged down a tad, while the Nasdaq had a rougher time as Apple and Facebook were sold off.

The blue chip Dow Jones rose marginally, oddly enough hauled up by a solid gain in insurance stocks, even though a series of brutal hurricanes were building up in the Atlantic.
Buying straw hats in winter is one thing, but insurance shares in the face an increasingly regular "one-in-a-hundred-year" hurricanes, while nuclear warheads are primed on the other side of the planet, seems counter-cyclical in the extreme.
Markets were expecting — but not overly fussed about — another North Korean nuclear test to mark the nation's Foundation Day. It generally lets one rip on special days, such as July 4 as a gift to the US.
However, the latest offer to broker a peace between North Korea and the US by the only person on the planet who could lay a claim to being a "bestie" with both Donald Trump and Kim Jong-un was more unexpected.
The intervention by the entirely odd, former professional basketballer Dennis Rodman was unlikely to be any less effective than the collective diplomatic might of the UN, and weird just might work. It is that sort of world.
The market may recall Rodman's former teammate Michael Jordan teaming up with Bugs Bunny in Space Jam to save the world 20 years ago, and think "Hell yeah, genius" — problem solved and plough in with ears pinned back.
Alternatively in a saner, not loading up on insurance shares ahead of Florida being wiped out moment, traders may wearily think, "Is this really where we're at?" and sell.
Despite all that, Wall Street managed a reasonable 0.4 per cent gain over the week, Europe and China were flattish and ASX's 0.9 per cent loss was only exceeded by a 2 per cent retreat in Japan after a missile sailed overhead.
One of the peculiarities of the Australian economy will be on display again this week — buoyant business sentiment and very glum customers.
The NAB publishes its respected business confidence and conditions surveys on Tuesday. Both measures improved in July and both are well above their long term average.
Westpac, in collaboration with the Melbourne Institute, released its monthly survey of consumer sentiment. It fell again last month to be around 5 per cent below its long term average.
For the best part of three years, consumer pessimism has outweighed optimism and this month should be no different.

The numbers tallied up in the second quarter national accounts supported the divergence evident in NAB and Westpac surveys.
Business sales and profits are picking up, and even investment intentions are becoming more positive. On the other hand, real disposable income has not risen since the GFC and household savings are shrinking.
So what makes business so chipper when the downtrodden consumer underwrites around 60 per cent of the economy?
Minack Advisors' Gerard Minack said the disparity was easy to explain; business sales and profits were driven by aggregate activity, while consumer sentiment was tied to per person income and spending.
The bullish business feeling has not translated into a robust economy, but there are now seeds of optimism, according to Mr Minack.
"While it's not news that Australian business is more upbeat than consumers, what is new is the hint that corporates are acting on that sentiment," he said.
The important drivers in the economy — investment, hiring and wage payments — are picking up.
Mr Minack noted the most surprising development of the three was wages, with NAB survey finding wage costs were rising, although official data indicates they were not.
He argued the degree of slackness in the labour market suggested the official data was broadly accurate.

"While an improvement in investment remains a forecast, not so for employment," Mr Minack said.
"Hiring intentions from the monthly business surveys are at all-time highs [starting 2002].
Further evidence of that is expected this week when the Australian Bureau of Statistics trots August jobs numbers on Thursday.
The consensus forecast is for another 20,000 new jobs and unemployment staying put at 5.6 per cent.
Mr Minack said his base case for the economy remained one of ongoing anaemic nominal growth.
"However, the improvement in corporate indicators suggests that the risks are becoming more balanced. The base case outlook would brighten if wage growth accelerates."
That remains a substantial "if".
There is not much else on the calendar, although AGM season gets underway as does the September quarter production results in the resources sector.
Overseas is very quiet — bar the substantial monthly data dump in China on Thursday.
Readings of industrial production, retail sales and the proxy for infrastructure spending — fixed asset investment — are all expected to be broadly stable.
Monday
11/9/2017
Tuesday
12/9/2017
Wednesday
13/9/2017
Thursday
14/9/2017
Friday
15/9/2017
Monday
11/9/2017
Tuesday
12/9/2017
Wednesday
13/9/2017
Thursday
14/9/2017
Friday
15/9/2017


The Northern Territory Police will not investigate a complaint related to the NT's new bottle shop laws that have stopped liquor giant Dan Murphy's from coming to Darwin.
In Parliament last month, Independent MLA Robyn Lambley questioned if political donations from the hotels industry had influenced Labor's new policy limiting the floor size of bottle shops, which has blocked a new store proposal from Dan Murphy's.
She then referred the matter to police.
But on Saturday, NT Police spokesman Scott Howard said police had decided there would not be a formal inquiry.
He did not provide an explanation for the decision.
"The assessment of this matter is now complete," he said.
"Police will not be commencing a formal investigation. The matter is now finalised and all parties have been advised."
Ms Lambley said she was extremely disappointed with the decision.
"They told me that they had not interviewed anyone in regards to the allegations I'd made, and that they had not collected any extra information," she said.
"They said that they had reviewed my referral, which was a substantial referral approximately 50 pages, and that they had sought legal advice, and the legal advice indicated to them there was no case to answer and therefore they had no intention of investigating the matter, the matter was closed."

Mrs Lambley said the NT Chief Minister Michael Gunner should have stood aside as Police Minister while police assessed her complaint.
Last Wednesday, Mr Gunner said he would step aside as minister only if police decided to hold a formal investigation.
"My understanding is no investigation has commenced," Mr Gunner said.
"If they choose to investigate then I will step down."
The NT Government has been under pressure over its laws limiting the public browsing area of bottle shops to 400 square metres.
The ABC has revealed that the government's floor size legislation is almost identical to a policy proposal sent by the NT branch of the Australian Hotels Association (AHA NT) in April last year to then Opposition Leader Michael Gunner.
Michael Gunner said Labor had come up with the policy itself and it was a coincidence the AHA NT proposal closely mirrored the NT Government legislation.
The NT Government has consistently denied any link between donations and its floor size policy.


Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull has called for the NT Labor Government to lift its moratorium on fracking.
Speaking at the Country Liberals annual conference in Darwin on Saturday, Mr Turnbull said the NT Government, led by Chief Minister Michael Gunner, was at risk of squandering the Territory's "immense" resource opportunities.
"My message to Michael Gunner is: pull the trigger, get on with it," Mr Turnbull said.
"The jobs, the investment, the opportunities that come with opening up 180 years of gas that you're sitting on is endless."
The NT Labor Government has put a 12-month moratorium on fracking while a fracking inquiry takes place.
"The answer is good engagement backed by science, not blanket bans," Mr Turnbull said.
The Prime Minister used his speech to continue his attack on Labor and federal Opposition Leader Bill Shorten over energy policy.
"The incompetence of the Labor Party in energy over a long period of time is hard to believe," he said.
"I mean, Blackout Bill, fair dinkum, as my old dad would have said, he is so hopeless he could not find his backside with both hands."
Mr Shorten said Australians have had a "gutful" of Mr Turnbull "blaming everyone else".
"He's the Prime Minister — he has the power to fix this," Mr Shorten said in a statement.
"If I was prime minister right now, I would make sure more gas stays in Australia at lower prices.
"I would end the war on renewables and implement a clean energy target, and I'd prepare a strategic energy reserve to stop the blackouts this summer."
Mr Turnbull was in Darwin to rally the Country Liberals who are attempting to rebuild their party after losing all but two seats in last year's election wipeout.
"As the Territory's only truly grassroots political movement, I am very confident the CLP will be back bigger and better than ever in three years' time," Mr Turnbull said.
A review of the CLP's election defeat says the party has a "long march" back into office.
The report, by former Federal Liberal party president Brian Loughnane and former Nationals president Scott Mitchell, found "significant problems" with the Country Liberals' 2016 campaign and a "dysfunctional" party and government in the four years leading up to the election.
The CLP's term from 2012-2016 was plagued by scandal and division and the review highlights one submission that detailed a "chronology of destruction" during those years.
"There were sexual misadventures, allegations of corruption, an expressed want of confidence in the NT police, slurs against colleagues and staff, defections, perceived conflicts of interest, a failed clumsy attempt to dislodge Adam Giles as chief minister capped by the Don Dale controversy," the review said.

The report revealed that while the Country Liberals were in office, instead of an increase in membership, there was a "collapse", with almost half the party's annually renewing members leaving.
It also shows the party failed to raise enough funds to fight the 2016 campaign, despite assurances from the party leadership that there was a $1 million campaign war chest.
"The debt by the end of August 2016 in itself was enough to take out the Country Liberals who had a near death experience electorally, financially and membership-wise," the review said.
This weekend, the Country Liberals will decide whether to accept some or all of the 38 recommendations of the review.
One of the most controversial recommendations is that members of the former CLP government who lost their seats last year be "actively discouraged" from seeking preselection again.
Party President Shane Stone was re-elected unopposed for another year in the role.


The South Australian Government has again delayed its Energy Security Target, a key plank of its $550 million energy plan.
The start of the Energy Security Target – originally planned to take effect in July – has been delayed for a second time, in this case until 2020.
It will operate in a similar way to the Federal Government's Renewable Energy Target (RET), with a major difference.
Instead of incentivising new renewable projects, it will require retailers to source 36 per cent of the state's electricity needs from gas generators and other synchronous power sources.
The Government today wrote to stakeholders advising of a further delay.
"The revised commencement date of 1 January 2020 allows retailers more time to consider the most efficient options for incorporating the Energy Security Target requirements in their business," it said.
"[It will give] investors a greater opportunity to work out how best to supply the market with a wider range of solutions.
"Commissioning of new generation projects in South Australia will provide a more competitive environment and, coupled with more lead time for market participants, the costs of the scheme will be lower, improving the price outcomes for South Australian consumers while delivering improved security."
The scheme was designed to help stabilise the state's energy grid with more sources of firm generation, and boost competition in the wholesale market.
But its introduction was delayed until January 2018 after power users and energy companies — including battery giant Tesla — criticised the Government's proposal.
The revised date also responds to recent changes in the energy market.
Since the consultation on the draft EST regulations, the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) has required an increased number of large synchronous generating units to remain online, to provide adequate system strength.
Earlier this week, AEMO warned South Australia was at risk of blackouts this summer without the energy plan.
Temporary generators and the Tesla battery are due to be installed by December, and a new solar thermal plant at Port Augusta will eventually follow.


Free to a good home — one 1981 disused commuter plane.
It's a renovators delight, in need of a little love and attention.
The Shorts 330 plane has been sitting at Alice Springs Airport for decades after it was bought by charter company Charter Air to sell for spare parts.
Head of Charter Air Douglas Hendry said the airport's management told him it needed to go, so he advertised it online.
"I put it on Gumtree on Thursday and it's just gone absolutely viral since I put it up there," he said.
"I had a phone call yesterday from a lady in Darwin who makes pies and she wants to turn it into a pie shop and call it pie in the sky.

"I had another guy from Sydney call me this morning, he's got a putt-putt golf (course) in Sydney and he wants this as the centrepiece of his putt putt golf."
Mr Hendry said he had been overwhelmed by people's creativity.
"It's just amazing, the ideas these people are coming up with I would never have thought about them in a million years," he said.
Mr Hendry said it was unlikely the plane would every return to the skies.
"If you had a spare million bucks you could probably get it flying again," he said.

"It'll never fly, but the good thing about it being here in Alice Springs is it doesn't have an ounce of corrosion on it."
The Shorts 330 ceased production in 1992, and about 136 were built.
A military variant is still used around the world, often as a launch vehicle for paratroopers.


Broken Hill in far west New South Wales has welcomed the most fabulous train to arrive on its platform yet.
Three carriages full of drag queens and fans of drag culture made their way from Sydney on Thursday for the city's annual Broken Heel festival this weekend, through to Sunday.
The 14-hour journey made stops at Strathfield, Parramatta, Katoomba, Lithgow, Bathurst, Orange and Parkes.
The festival started three years ago, celebrating 21 years since the making of the film Pricilla Queen of the Desert, which was partly set in the city.

It was the first time the specially scheduled train was made available to festival goers.
Train manager Ross Johnston said the journey was a great success.
"The lipstick stops — where everyone gets out and takes photos and locals come and say hello — has been a really good time," he said.
"They're not just your regular passenger, they're looking forward to a great weekend."

Michael Dwyer made his way from the New South Wales central coast.
"The train is great, I love it, it's like you're suspended in another time," he said.
"Generally when you're travelling with people you don't get to know them. On this particular train you're getting to know them and you're realising that everyone has a story and it's great to hear it."
Thomas van de Berg first learned about Broken Hill and Pricilla Queen of the desert when he saw the film at a festival in Amsterdam in 1995.
He said the film inspired him to move to Australia.
"It was a really big experience for me," he said.
"The Aboriginal people and the gay community were dancing along together and it was so amazing. I said to myself 'one day I'll come to Australia'.
"Twenty years later I moved to Australia to make my home here because of this beautiful connection."

Marianne Bowler was headed to the festival for the first time with her daughter and budding young drag queen Arora Arsenic.
Ms Bowler, who makes many of Arora's outfits, said she loved being mother to a drag queen.
"I couldn't ask for anything more, we have so much fun together and it's fantastic," she said.
The pair had made their way to the train from Brisbane, and Aroura said being able to travel to a remote area for the event was a highlight.
"I'm from the suburbs. This is like seeing snow for the first time time, I've never seen red dirt before."

Maude Boat, famous for creating the foam wigs which were part of the inspiration for Pricilla Queen of the Desert, was the host of the train trip.
She said she had been up since 2:00am preparing for the journey, and the 14-hour trip was a new record for her for time spent in drag.
"I don't want to see a camera crew at the end of the trip. Unfortunately I don't think I should shave on a train, might come out covered in cuts!" she said.

Gayle Brooke from Wollongong, known as 'drag nan' to many in the drag scene, has been going to drag shows for 35 years.
She said she had been hoping to get to the festival for some time and the train made that possible.
"When they put the train on I was the first to buy a ticket. I was so excited," she said.
"It'll be a bit of a reunion. A lot of people I know are coming and I'm looking forward to nan hugs and glittery kisses."

Maria D'Angela and Donald Fuggle from Sydney were headed to the festival for the first time.
Mr Fuggle said the festival was a good chance to celebrate diversity as the nation prepares to vote on same sex marriage.
"We're having this plebiscite about gay marriage and it brings to light that not everyone's the same, and we have to embrace that difference," he said.
"Somewhere like Broken Hill really seems to embrace difference. And there seems to be a respect there. This festival really highlights that acceptance."



Twenty-four electricity retailers and tech companies have applied to be part of a scheme the Australian Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA) says will help the country avoid looming blackouts this summer.
Under the scheme, large groups of households or business will be offered incentives, such as payments, to cut their electricity usage when the grid comes under stress.
ARENA business development manager Phil Cohn said, as an example, participating customers could be sent messages, telling them a high-stress period was expected at the next day, and asking them to switch of their air conditioner or pool pump for 30 minutes.
The agency and the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) announced their Demand Response trial program in May.
Mr Cohn said ARENA was now examining proposed projects under the scheme.
"We're going through our assessment and contracting process at the moment with the successful projects," he said.
"We got a wide range of energy retailers come in the door, from energy retailers through to new technology start-ups that are looking to utilise things in people's homes to control appliances and help manage energy use."
Experts have warned there is a high chance of blackouts this summer, partly caused by the closure of Hazelwood Power Station in Victoria.
Mr Cohn said the successful projects would be announced in October and they would need to be up and running by December, so the energy savings could be used in summer.
He said they would be in New South Wales, where the State Government is contributing funds, and in Victoria and South Australia.
The trial aims to save 160 megawatts on the National Electricity Market this summer, about one-tenth of the capacity of the Hazelwood plant.
Mr Cohn said that would provide some help in efforts to prevent blackouts this summer, combined with other measures relating to supply and demand, but the trial's true value was in fine tuning the most effective incentive models for the future.
He said the demand response model had been successful overseas, and major industries in Australia had been incentivised in the past to cut usage during high-stress periods, but this would be a first for Australian households.
"We estimate that if we had similar levels of demand response [incentives] being delivered here as there is in the United States, there is potentially about 3,000 megawatts of reserves there to be used, which is [equivalent to] two Hazelwood power stations," he said.
"What we are hoping to do through our trial, is to help commercialise new approaches and new technologies and inform the development of permanent market mechanisms to allow demand response to be a key feature of the energy market going forward."
The three-year trial will feature projects incorporating businesses and households.
Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews gave cautious support to the concept, saying such schemes were already in place for big business, but it was up to ARENA and AEMO to show the model could work for households.
"It has worked for big industries, for very big power consumers, smelters and the like, for a long time," he said.
"They can reduce their power usage, be rewarded for that, send that power back to the grid."
In total, $37.5 million funding is available for the first round of trial projects.


China's export performance clicked down another gear as weaker demand took its toll and the first signs of the stronger US dollar having an impact emerged.

The better news in the official figures for August released by Chinese customs officials was imports held up well indicating the domestic economy remained robust.
Exports slowed in both US dollar and local currency terms and were substantially lower than market forecasts.
ANZ's senior China economist Betty Wang was not alarmed by the export performance noting it came off a fairly high base.
The stronger than expected imports grew in US dollar terms and were relatively flat measured in the yuan.
While export growth slowed against the big economies — the US, Europe and Japan — it accelerated in most Asian economies.
From an Australian perspective, iron ore imports mirrored the domestic economy strength up almost 16 per cent on a year ago.
Capital Economics' Julian Evans-Pritchard noted the slowdown partly reflects the renminbi's recent appreciation against the US dollar — the currency in which most Chinese trade is priced
However, he said after adjusting for changes in import and export prices trade volumes weakened, and the stronger currency is probably not to blame for that given exporters have yet to meaningfully raise their US dollar prices in response to recent exchange rate movements.
"Instead, there appears to have been a broader decline in external demand," Mr Evans-Pritchard said.
The performance will be watched closely by the market, worried a hint that the yuan's rapid appreciation against the US dollar was affecting exports would trigger government intervention in the currency.
However, Ms Wang said on the available evidence this was unlikely.
"The strength in the yuan is unlikely to change our optimistic view on China's near-term export outlook," Ms Wang said.
"China's role in global supply chains is unlikely to be replaced at least for now."
Ms Wang noted China's export competitiveness is gradually shifting from low value-added to high-tech products.
"If Apple's share price is any indication, given that electronic shipments account for a major share of China's total exports, the country's export outlook is likely to be positive for now."



Doctors are pushing back against insurance companies asking them to send them their patients' entire health records as they make decisions about life insurance.

"I am very alarmed that there might be tens of thousands of people's entire health record across the country now stored with insurance companies," Labor Senator Deborah O'Neil told Parliament's joint committee on corporations and financial services.
Edwin Kruys from the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners told the committee doctors do not believe it is appropriate to send entire files to insurance companies.
"It contains information that is often not relevant to the claim, it is all sorts of information that patients have shared with their doctor over the years and they may not even remember what they have shared," Dr Kruys said.
Anne Trimmer from the Australian Medical Association (AMA) told the committee it is challenging for a doctor to determine which parts of a file are relevant.
"And you overlay that with doctors who are time poor with busy practices, it is really hard to make the determination of what is really relevant," she said.
Helen Troup who is managing director of the Commonwealth Bank's Life Insurance arm, CommInsure, told their insurance customers agreed to let doctors provide the files.
"We do get a full authority," Ms Troup said.
She said the company keeps the files but could not say how many it had.
"Our claims principle is to ask for information that is relevant to the claim assessment," she said.

But she said it sometimes meant the company received the full file.
"We of course take due care with that information," Ms Troup said.
But Dr Kruys said he did not take a tick in a box on a form as true consent from his patients to hand over their records, so he contacted them and checked.
He told the committee that they often then withdrew that consent and he would instead send a much more specific report.
Associate Professor Stephen Bradshaw of the Medical Board of Australia told the committee that the request for medical records could come months or years after the doctor had seen the patient.
"You have no idea what the context of the inquiry is and you are asked to give all the notes, it does put the doctor in an invidious position," he said.
He said it would be rare to track down the patient and check with them because medical practitioners do not have time as well as the pressure from the companies.
"You have got these legalistic letters coming to the practitioners saying 'you are required' and there is usually a whole lot of little fine print," Associate Professor Bradshaw said.
The medical aspect part of the broader complexities of life insurance that the committee is due to report at the end of next month.


A little less than two years ago, Launceston's The Royal Oak hotel reached out to one of the city's local artists.
The hotel wanted to put together an evening of solely female musicians, and Sarah Triffitt was the person it wanted pulling the strings.
"I was approached by management at the Oak about trying to get more female musicians into the venue and also as punters," Triffitt said.
"Instantly I was like: 'Yes. Please let me do this', I came up with the name and booked the first show and away we go."
The show was When She Believes and its first night back in October 2015 packed out the Oak's public bar to see the performers, some of whom were Triffett's friends called on as a favour.
"Not purposely to be guinea pigs, but [I said] 'Come and play this show, we're going to do this and it's going to be amazing', and all the people came and it was amazing," she said.
It did not take long for When She Believes to outgrow its original venue, and in the months since has played in several pubs across Launceston.
The focus has always been on showcasing female artists and creating an intimate and respectful relationship between the audience and performers.
"I'm quite happy to tell people to shut up and go outside and I've had to do that in the past," Triffitt said.
"I've had management do it once or twice for me as well as at a couple of venues that we've played, which is really great to have that support form management. They totally understand the concept and what it's about."

Indie folk artist Tiarni Cane said it had been the perfect environment for her to develop as a solo female artist.
"I feel like it was almost harder to be taken seriously (as a woman), it's not necessarily hard to get the start, but it's harder just to feel as if what you're doing is as respected as what, maybe, some other musicians are doing," Cane said.
"We've done a lot of gigs where you're up on stage and the people that are in the venue aren't necessarily there for your story or for the music.
"[At] When She Believes you can hear a pin drop when you're there and the only thing you can hear is the foldback and the sound of your music coming back at you.
"It's really flattering, and humbling and it's pretty terrifying to be honest, because there is no hiding in that environment,
"But I am so grateful to be able to have the chance to play multiple times for When She Believes and just feel that support from everyone."
Cane, along with fellow Launceston artist Denni Sulzberger, both played in the first gig at The Royal Oak.

Almost two years on and the pair will feature in When She Believes biggest show so far— Launceston's Junction Arts Festival.
Sulzberger said she had noticed attitudes shift in the local music scene over the past two years.
"Just the fact that it's creating more opportunity at the very, very base point, it's not saying we want 50 per cent of musicians in Launceston to be female, we don't care," said Sulzberger.
"It's just giving the opportunity, because woman can be scared to go to a pub, especially if you're by yourself, to go to a pub and do a performance.
"I feel a lot more respected going into venues, like when I go to play I get asked to do a lot more… but then again it may just be because I've been given the opportunity to get out there."
For curator, Triffitt, it is a social message of gender equality, which has played a large part in When She Believes' success.
"It resonates obviously with a massive part of the community that also feels that way and they support us because they want to see more quality as well, not just for music that's our thing, but it resonates with a lot of different areas of the community for what it represents as far as bridging the gap."


The charity supplies 85,000 meals a month, which are distributed by welfare agencies to vulnerable South Australians.
Foodbank SA manager Leigh Royans said it worked across the food chain with support from more than 100 growers and suppliers.
"A healthy diet is even more important to those people that are living on the margins," he said.
"We're lucky to have great support from the market authority and growers to actually make a difference," he said.
Foodbank SA receives retail-quality fresh food but does not baulk at taking less attractive produce.
"We also receive good-quality seconds produce that may not be just right for the retail shelf, and we make use of all."
Mr Royans had wondered if increasing turnover in fresh produce was justified, but said it was as popular as long-life food.
"We've found that we still fall short in the quantity of produce that we need donated so we've reset the benchmark and we're now moving beyond the current 1.1 million kilograms of donated fruit and veg we receive every year to aspirationally try and move to 1.5 million kilograms a year," Mr Royans said.
He said demand for food supplied by Foodbank SA was growing by 5 per cent a year.
"That doesn't sound huge but the cycle's going in the wrong direction, hence our supply needs to grow rather than shrink."
Angelo Demasi, from the SA Produce Market, valued food donations from local suppliers at $2.5 million.
He said it spared unsold - or unwanted - food from being wasted.
"It's not only edible product that may be going to landfill, it's also product that would normally go into your greengrocer store, so it's a remarkable achievement by our industry," Mr Demasi said.
Foodbank SA supplied food for about 85,000 meals a month which was distributed by welfare agencies.


The director of the soon-to-be-released movie Mother! has apologised for an advertising agency painting a picture of star Jennifer Lawrence over an iconic Newtown mural.
Darren Aronofsky took to social media saying he was "embarrassed and furious" at Apparition Media for "breaking #1 graffiti rule" on the side of the heritage building fronting Enmore Road in Sydney's inner west.

Mr Aronofsky also offered to replace the "It's like a jungle sometimes" mural, which was painted 20 years ago and based on the famous hip hop song The Message by Grandmaster Flash and Furious Five.
The ad agency has promised to remove the massive portrait of the actor within days and then restore the original mural with the help of the artist who painted it.
Tyson Hunter from Apparition Media apologised to the public and the artist and said the agency had "learnt the hard way".
"We should have got in contact with the original artist first and we certainly won't be interested in painting over any other spaces that have murals on them," Mr Hunter said.
"We respect the community and we respect that this has upset the community so it is our intention to try and remove it as quickly as possible."
The original artist, who asked to remain anonymous, told the ABC he painted the mural with several other artists during what he described as a "heavy time" in their lives.

"The mural was mean to be something that represented how I was feeling at the time and I was feeling beside myself, depressed and definitely a little suicidal, which is hard to say now," he said.
"The message then is the same message now, you know, that was the name of the song by Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five."
Mr Hunter said as a measure of goodwill to the artist, the hotline number for suicide prevention organisation Lifeline has been included on the mural.

The advertisement for the new Paramount Pictures was not sanctioned by local authorities.
Despite the plans made by the artist and ad agency to restore the original mural, Inner West Council is still investigating.
"Council did not approve this advertisement, and the display of advertisements is generally prohibited in heritage areas," a spokeswoman for the council said.
"Like many members of the public, [the Council] was very disappointed to see the iconic 'It's a Jungle Out There' [sic] artwork painted over," she said.
"While Council is pleased to see positive action to re-instate the iconic mural, the investigations by Council's compliance section will continue and if a breach is detected, appropriate regulatory action will be taken."
The maximum penalty by way of an infringement notice is $6,000 but in the event of prosecution a court has the power to impose a maximum $1.1 million fine.


The investors' loss appears to be the first home buyers' gain, as the rival bidders switched roles in July.

Investors weighed down by targeted interest rate hikes were in retreat for the third consecutive month, with the value of their loans falling by a solid 3.9 per cent to $12.1 billion.
In seasonally adjusted terms, the value of owner-occupier loans edged by 0.9 per cent to $21 billion, while overall commitments to buy slipped 0.9 per cent.
But the buyers with the biggest spring in their step appear to be first home owners, with number of loans to the sector jumping by 5.2 per cent over the month..
As has been the case in every month this year, first home buyers have carved out a larger slice of the market.
Having started the year near an historic low with just 13.4 per cent of all loan commitments, by July that had risen to 16.6 per cent.
Over the month, the average first home buyer loan rose by $4,000 to $321,800.
At the same time, the average loan size for all owner-occupied housing commitments fell $5,000 to $370,500.
"It looks like some stamp duty exceptions for first homebuyers following the 2017/18 round of state budgets has had a positive impact on first home buyer activity," CBA's Gareth Aird noted.
JP Morgan's Henry St John says the property market is showing signs of some wear and tear.
"The average loan size for owner-occupiers contracted for a second consecutive month, having fallen from a local peak of $380,000 in May to $371,000 in July," Mr St John said.
"Refinancing activity, which in the owner-occupier component of the data requires mortgage holders to have shifted from one bank to another, fell 0.7 per cent in volume terms, and is now running at -16.8 per cent over the year.

"This pattern appears to match with anecdotal evidence that suggests that as the banks have tightened their mortgage pricing, more restrictive lending standards have made it increasingly difficult to shift mortgages from one bank to another."
APRA's second phase of turning the screws on investor lending in April, which saw some aggressive interest rate rises from the banks, appears to be working.
Mr St John says investor lending has now strung together six months' worth of predominantly weak data in this series.
"Investor lending values have now declined 11.3 per cent over the last 6 months, and the annual run rate is now effectively flat," he said.
"This is consistent with the slowdown in investor credit which we have observed in recent months, and July's numbers suggest that there is scope for investor credit to continue to grind its way lower as we approach year-end."
CBA's Gareth Aird said most of the indicators on the housing market are pointing to a slowdown in dwelling price growth, including credit, auction clearance rates and record low yields.
Despite a slow down in construction financing — total lending for dwelling related construction fell by 3.7 per cent in July — it was off the back of a big 10 per cent jump in the previous month.
Mr Aird says the fall was not a cause for alarm.
"We don't see a hard landing for residential construction over the next few years," he said.
"The trends in the building approvals and lending data, coupled with strong underlying demand for housing, underpins our view that the decline in residential investment will be gradual and elongated.
"This means that the impact on the economy will be milder than in previous residential downturns."
However Mr Aird said the slowdown was likely to be a headwind on the economy over the next two years.



As if retailers weren't having a tough enough time already, now it looks likely the global giant Amazon is going to crash their Christmas party.

All the signs are Amazon could mobilise its Australian operations in the next 60 days, perhaps even as early next month, according to Citi retail analyst Brian Raymond.
"Buying terms have been set and first orders have been placed with suppliers in recent weeks," Mr Raymond said.
Amazon has also already announced it has secured a large fulfillment centre — a digital term for packaging warehouse — on the outskirts of Melbourne and staff recruitment has started.
A decision has yet to be made on a larger distribution centre in Sydney, but it is doubtful it would be up and running before the Christmas rush.
"Launch timing remains uncertain and subject to website and logistics testing, but we would expect a formal launch to occur sometime in October, ahead of Black Friday on 24 November," Mr Raymond wrote in a research note to clients.
Black Friday is the day after Thanksgiving and is regarded as the start of the pre-Christmas consumer binge in the US, a one-day, discount-fuelled buying frenzy.
Mr Raymond said Amazon was unlikely to have its full sales arsenal available in Australia immediately and therefore would compete aggressively on price alone.
"Amazon will not have a meaningful advantage in two of their three key pillars in the short term —  range and delivery, which will evolve over time," he said.
"As a result, we expect prices to be competitive in order to drive volume."
That margin crunching approach will do nothing to lift the festive spirits of local retailers affected by a customer base weighed down by low wage growth, high debt and shrinking savings.

The most recent retail figures showed sales largely stalled in July and went backwards in a number of states including New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania.
Department stores, the sector most likely to be immediately and seriously impacted by Amazon, resumed their downward march, with sales declining 1.6 per cent in July, the tenth monthly fall in the past year.
Mr Raymond said the worry for the bricks-and-mortar retailers would be Amazon's strategy of matching or being the lowest price in the market at all times.
"This could spark a response from incumbent retailers who are intent on not being beaten by Amazon on price during the key pre-Christmas sales event," he said.
On Citi's figures, the sales impact in the three months leading up to New Years Day could be in the order of $200 million — or roughly 0.2 per cent of total Australian retail sales — with the bulk of the damage done by price competition, rather than the loss of market share.
As the initial target is likely to be the gift market, Citi argued the retailers likely to be hit first were department stores and those selling electronics, leisure goods, clothing and footwear.


Buildings with highly flammable non-compliant cladding may not be covered by insurance companies, the industry's peak body has warned as it calls for a national overhaul of construction regulations.
The dangers of aluminium cladding made with a polyethylene (PE) core — used to swathe buildings around the world — was highlighted after a fierce fire ripped through the Grenfell tower in London, killing 80 people.
Planning and fire experts have said there may be more than 5,000 buildings in Victoria that contain non-compliant cladding.
Campbell Fuller from the Insurance Council of Australia said some insurers would now refuse to cover buildings and apartments made with the materials.
"Buildings that do have these flammable materials are certainly going to struggle to get insurance," he told ABC Radio Melbourne.

"Many insurers will insure the building but may put fairly stringent conditions on the coverage, or put very high premiums on, or also put on very high excesses for claims.
"So that's sending a pretty strong price signal to the owners of the building and also to the construction industry and the Government that this is an issue that isn't going to go away without a large amount of intervention."
A Senate committee has recommended Australia ban the importation, sale and use of PE cladding, but the ban was not supported by Coalition members.
Mr Fuller said the insurance council wanted a national audit of buildings to uncover the full extent of the problem.
The ABC's Four Corners program revealed Australian suppliers of cladding made with PE knew it was highly flammable a decade before the deadly London fire.
Mr Fuller said the insurance industry was now acting as a "canary in the coal mine", sending a warning to governments, builders and developers on the need to overhaul the entire regulatory system.
The current method of self-regulation was not working and was putting lives at risk, he said.

"Insurers send signals to markets through prices and through availability of product, it's the same in flood or cyclone-exposed areas of Australia — where the risks are high, the premiums will follow," he said.
"It's disappointing we've had the Lacrosse [building] fire in Melbourne, but it's taken the Grenfell fire in the UK for focus to return.
"Developers are always wanting to put things up faster to meet demand. Where, of course, there is unmet housing demand there is always pressure on governments to make sure these things can go up faster, but when human life is compromised, then surely a more prudent approach needs to be taken."
Mr Fuller said ultimate responsibility fell to property owners to inform insurers if the building had the cladding.
"The cost that's passed onto the building owners could be very, very steep," Mr Fuller said.
The Queensland Government has ordered the removal of the material from the Princess Alexandra Hospital, and the Victorian Government has set up a taskforce to investigate the extent of non-compliant cladding on buildings.
Watch Four Corners' report on flammable cladding on ABC iview.


Australia's prudential regulator has appointed a panel of corporate veterans to progress its inquiry into Commonwealth Bank.
One of the appointees is the former chairman of the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority, Dr John Laker.
APRA has also picked the ACCC's former chairman, Professor Graeme Samuel, and a former Reserve Bank board member, Jillian Broadbent, to conduct its prudential inquiry.
The purpose of its inquiry is to identify any shortcomings in CBA's governance, culture, and accountability frameworks and practices, the regulator said in a statement on Friday.
APRA will also assess whether the bank's remuneration and governance framework conflicts with "sound risk management".
This is in light of "a number of incidents in recent years that have damaged the reputation and public standing of the CBA group".
But the limitation is that the inquiry "should not make specific determinations regarding matters currently the subject of legal proceedings, other regulatory reviews or investigations by regulators other than APRA, or customers' individual cases," the regulator said.
These "current legal proceedings" are a reference to AUSTRAC's case in the Federal Court against CBA.

Due to the extent of AUSTRAC's allegations against Australia's largest bank — almost 54,000 alleged breaches of anti-money laundering laws — it could take CBA three months to file its defence.
The normal timeframe for a defendant to file its defence is 28 days, according to court rules.
CBA is also facing a potential class action from aggrieved shareholders, who saw the value of their shares drop after news of AUSTRAC's litigation against the bank became public.
On top of that, ASIC is investigating CBA for its potential breach of continuous disclosure laws.
"I think we'll be able to get to the heart of the real issues which have occurred here," Federal Treasurer Scott Morrison said at a press conference on Friday morning.
"It's not some general fishing expedition into alleged wickedness.
"This is practical action — taking action now on the issues that need to be addressed at CBA, and that's what APRA will be doing through this inquiry."
The APRA inquiry panel is expected to submit a progress report next year, on January 31, and the deadline for its final report is April 30.


A clown in a stormwater drain talks to a young boy who has come looking for his paper boat.
The emblematic image of the 1990 TV miniseries IT, inspired by the 1986 Stephen King novel of the same name, is an absurd composite of the everyday and the sinister that's inspired a thousand memes.

The moment itself, a grotesque stranger danger vignette that quickly transforms from innocuous to horrific, is a stand in for what the story goes on to explore.
A group of children in the small Maine town of Derry are haunted by the malevolent shapeshifting entity Pennywise, the dancing clown, who symbolises the deep, pervasive evil beneath the surface of middle America.
This week, a slick remake by Argentine horror director Andres Muschietti (Mama) breathes fresh life into the sewer demon, otherwise known to the kids as It.
The partial adaptation focuses only on his victims in childhood, rather than following them into adulthood as in the original, and transposes the 1960s setting into the late 1980s.
It's not hugely dissimilar to Netflix's Stranger Things, and a star of that series, the gangly Finn Wolfhard, appears here.
The imprint of Korean cinematographer Chung-hoon Chung (Oldboy, Stoker) pervades the film. It sweeps you away with sheer visual elegance, seamlessly segueing from one carefully-crafted camera move to the next.

But this stylistic gloss often comes at the expense of the original's uneven, often gritty charm, not to mention its more upfront satire. Gone is Tim Curry's camp performance of Pennywise, who has been transformed by Bill Skarsgard into something more unambiguously threatening.
And the fluid camerawork might be well-suited to establishing mood, but Muschietti is less capable with the heavy lifting of horror jolts and scares.
Reports of a troubled pre-production period proliferated after the departure of the director's predecessor on the film, True Detective's Cary Fukunaga, two years ago. It might be one of the reasons It seems to struggle to pull it all together.

Muschietti handles the group tensions between the six boys and one girl, who call themselves The Losers, by drawing out some vivid, individual quirks, but the film doesn't reach the emotional pathos of precedents like Stand By Me, another King adaptation.
Pennywise of course is more than a vague bogeyman — he's a pointer towards real-world evils that involve the characters directly.
A chilling subplot of child abuse, relevant to the girl in particular, is a confronting reminder of the grim reality behind the fantasy, and a bathroom covered in blood that only the children see is a particularly well-handled plot device that establishes the idea of a collective waking nightmare.

But the theme of the town's history of racial conflict seems underdeveloped, as if the film is too busy establishing a Goonies-style adventure.
While Fukunaga wasn't necessarily a better choice for director, you wonder what the film might have been if it managed to lasso its various traumatic subplots into an overarching, True Detective-style statement about America's murky side.

Muschietti's film — for all its sophisticated craft and sugary thrills — falls just short of embedding its likeable characters into the subtext of American corruption and injustice.
Pennywise remains a chilling figure, lurking beneath the streets of a small Maine town, but you feel his most poignant appearances are still to come.
Maybe some of those will be in the planned sequel — or perhaps in meme form.


Almost a quarter of Australia's top 200 listed companies have no women in their senior executive leadership teams, raising fresh concerns about whether corporate diversity policies are addressing gender imbalance.

Research from the body committed to lifting the number of women in senior roles, Chief Executive Women (CEW), shows 41 companies in the ASX 200 do not have female representation at the most senior management levels of the company.
Based on information gathered from company websites, the gender imbalance is more stark in 126 companies where there are no women in line roles answering to the executive team.
Only 5 per cent of ASX 200 companies have a female chief executive, while 9 per cent have a female chief financial officer.
However, CEW's senior executive census shows that in 2017 men still held 79 per cent of roles in senior executive teams.
Reserve Bank board member Kathryn Fagg, president of CEW, said while the study was a big improvement compared with a decade ago, the slow progress was disappointing.
"There is a long way to go, there is no question about that," she said.
"It becomes even more evident when you look at the number of women in line roles as well as the women in functional roles.
"When you look at the companies that have made the most progress, it is really clear that they have picked up the challenge and proactively gone in and said we need to do things differently.
"There is no doubt that it is men actively saying we are going to speak out and make a difference, particularly through the Male Champions of Change that has really helped us make the progress."
Top companies with no women in senior executive teams include Woodside Petroleum, Amcor, James Hardie, Alumina, Qube Holdings, JB Hi Fi and Seven Group Holdings.
Companies with the best female representation in senior management include Estia Health (57 per cent), G8 Education (56 per cent), Tatts Group (55 per cent), Viva Energy (50 per cent) and Sigma Healthcare (50 per cent).
By industry sector, men dramatically overshadow women in line management roles notably in telecommunications (83 per cent), real estate (84 per cent), healthcare (85 per cent) and financials (87 per cent).
However, women are better represented in human resources, corporate affairs and legal departments.

Deloitte Australia chief executive Cindy Hook said it was disappointing that a significant portion of corporate Australia has not pushed for greater diversity.
"It's not an easy thing to get to gender diversity," she said.

"This research shows that more attention needs to be paid to this. It's really an opportunity that some companies are missing.
"Some companies just use old excuses on why it can't happen — you know, 'women take off for maternity leave'.
"That's not a reason that women can't be in your workforce and well represented in giving you diverse teams."
Despite the slow progress, Ms Fagg cautioned against the use of quotas to lift the representation of women at senior executive levels.
"I think that most people would prefer that we don't have to go to quotas and a mandate set by government," Ms Fagg said.
"The reality is that where progress is being made in nearly all cases, targets have been set because in organisations we respond to targets."
Even so, major institutional investors including big industry funds say they might use their clout at annual general meetings to force companies to commit to real gender diversity.
Australian Super chief executive Ian Silk recently told the ABC that company boards could come under renewed pressure to bridge the pay gap between men and women.
Research by Male Champions of Change says 120 executives have committed to "narrowing" the 15.3 per cent gap in "like for like" roles.

Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter @peter_f_ryan and on his Main Street blog.


Wall Street had a relatively weak day as gold prices surged back to their one-year high, and the Australian dollar remains stubbornly high at 80.45 US cents.

Meanwhile, two sets of economic figures, from Australia and China, may influence the direction of local share trading today.
Although most sectors posted gains, the financial sector slid 1.7 per cent amid US Treasury yields falling to 10-month lows.
Financials were the biggest drag on Wall Street's overall performance — with large banks Goldman Sachs, Bank of America and Citigroup dropping more than 1.3 per cent each.
Apple also weighed on the major indexes, dropping 0.4 per cent, following a report from the Wall Street Journal about the upcoming iPhone 8 being hit with a number of production glitches.
Disney shares fell 4.4 per cent after the entertainment giant issued a profit warning.
The company will report earnings-per-share this year, "roughly in line" with what it earned in fiscal year 2016, Disney CEO Bob Iger said.
On the data front, the number of Americans filing for unemployment soared to its highest level in more than two years due to the impact of Hurricane Harvey.
There were 62,000 new applications last week, according to the Department of Labour, with seasonally-adjusted initial claims now totalling 298,000.
ECB president Mario Draghi said on Thursday that the euro's strength was already weighing on inflation, and will be a key factor for the central bank next month — when it decides how to proceed with its massive stimulus program.
Since the start of the year, the euro has risen 14 per cent against the US dollar.
This is a double-edged sword for the European currency. It reflects a strong economy, but makes its exports less competitive while reducing the cost of imports.
The euro's sharp rally was the main reason for a downgrade in the ECB's new 2018-19 inflation forecasts.  Now, the bank is further away from achieving its target of almost 2 per cent inflation.
"The medium-term outlook for inflation was revised downward in the staff's projections, mainly due to the appreciation of the exchange rate, which means that we will have to take into account this element in our information set in our future policy decisions," Mr Draghi said.
With SPI futures up 0.3 per cent, a slightly higher open for the Australian share market looks likely.
In local economic news, the Bureau of Statistics will release July's housing finance figures.
It will reveal how many new loans were granted for owner-occupied homes, and is an indicator of demand in the housing market.
The number of new home loans is predicted to rise by 1 per cent in July, according to -polled economists.
China's trade balance figures for August will also be released today, and may affect the movement of the Australian share market.
"Our team expects China's surplus to have widened modestly and that growth in both exports and imports will have increased," Deutsche Bank economist Phil Odonaghoe said.
Deutsche Bank's estimate is that China's August exports (on an annual basis) will rise by 8.9 per cent, and imports will lift by 14.2 per cent.


The McGowan Government is at risk of simultaneous wars with both business and the union movement, after an angry reaction to measures announced in its first budget yesterday.

Treasurer Ben Wyatt will be trying to ease anger from the top end of town, after increasing payroll tax and gold royalties, when he fronts a post-budget breakfast with about 1,000 business leaders this morning.
While facing a backlash from business, unions are also angry at moves to cut thousands of public sector jobs within the next year.
But, after releasing a budget yesterday afternoon that broke Labor's promise not to hike taxes, Mr Wyatt was standing firm on its controversial measures.
"We could have imposed more cost pressures onto households in Western Australia or we could try to spread that burden on budget repair," Mr Wyatt said.
Business warned the budget would have a crippling impact on the economy, with large companies to face a higher payroll tax bill over the next five years and gold miners facing a substantial royalty hike.
The payroll tax increase only applies to businesses with wage bills above $100 million but will mean nearly one in 10 employers in WA will pay more.

"Today's budget will affect jobs and it will stall economic recovery," Chamber of Commerce and Industry chief executive Deidre Willmott warned yesterday.
The gold royalty hike, which is worth nearly $400 million to the budget, could face a particularly strong backlash after miners led a big campaign when the Barnett Government considered such a measure.
After the budget, the mining lobby was already warning of a severe impact from the move.
"This budget is a real slap in the face in the gold sector," Chamber of Minerals and Energy acting chief executive Nicole Roocke said.
At the same time, the Government will also be dealing with an angry response from its union base to a move to offer 3,000 voluntary redundancies to public sector employees.
Community and Public Sector Union branch secretary Toni Walkington said the public sector was already stretched enough, before further cuts.
"The Treasurer's claim this budget is about job creation cannot be believed when it includes 3,000 local jobs to be cut," Ms Walkington said.

But some of the budget's most contentious measures could struggle to get through parliament, due to Labor's lack of numbers in the Upper House.
Both the gold royalty hike and payroll tax increase could be voted down in the Upper House, where Labor needs the support of minor parties or the opposition to pass its measures.
Liberal leader Mike Nahan left the door open to blocking tax and royalty hikes, something which could blow an $827 million hole in the budget.
"We hold our right to hold them to account for their clearly enunciated commitments," he said.
But Mr Wyatt urged both the Opposition and crossbenchers to be "responsible", admitting he was concerned budget measures could be blocked.
"I urge [them] not to be budget wreckers ... but assume a shared responsibility in resolving the challenges which confront us," Mr Wyatt said.



Adelaide's Charles Sturt Council is expected to vote next week to remove parking meters from Henley Beach, just weeks after they were controversially introduced.
Last month, the council brought in a $2 per hour charge for a maximum stay of three hours in the car parks to the north and south of the Henley Square precinct.
Mayor Angela Evans announced on her Facebook page that council staff were recommending the removal of the parking machines.
"Council staff have now explored a range of options to try and address the concerns raised over the past month by residents, traders and visitors," she wrote.
"Their conclusion is that these concerns cannot be adequately addressed."
Charles Sturt councillor Jassmine Wood said the council had heard the outcry, including a petition that attracted 8,000 signatures.
"Everyone is just so relieved and so excited, it still needs to be passed by council... but we can rest assured the problem is solved entirely," she said.
"I think it's a very valuable but expensive lesson learned, in that our ratepayers are the people we are voted to represent... we need to listen to what they want more, and we need to consult before making contentious decisions such as this."
Although the meters were installed during the winter low season, the car parks appeared emptier than usual with motorists filling up free spaces further along the Esplanade.
Traders blamed paid parking for a drop in business, and a protest was being organised by local groups including the Henley Surf Life Saving Club.
Ms Wood said the council would have avoided "expense and trouble" if it had consulted over paid parking in the first place.
The matter will come before a vote at the council meeting on Monday.


Investors losing millions of dollars, bar staff taking cash from the till just to get paid and a former cricketer dropping out of a high-profile marketing deal — the final years of the Nant Whisky investment scheme were a wild ride.

Once a darling of Australia's boutique spirits scene, the whisky label is now a cautionary tale for investors.
As police in Tasmania begin a criminal investigation into the failed investment scheme, the ABC's Background Briefing program can reveal new details about how it all went sour.
Almost 900 investors purchased barrels of whisky after production began at Nant's distillery north of Hobart in 2008.
The barrels cost up to $14,000 each and would be stored in a bonded warehouse on the property until the whisky had matured — a process that was expected to take four years, according to the Nant investment offer.
Nant promised to then buy back the barrels, rewarding investors for their patience with a generous return of 9.55 per cent each year.
The scheme was designed to help Nant cover upfront expenses until the operation was profitable.
But for hundreds of the investors, both here in Australia and overseas, their long-awaited payday never materialised.
Nant's founder, Keith Batt, a bankrupt former property developer from Brisbane, has maintained a low profile ever since.
Background Briefing found him living in a $1.4 million home with river views in the affluent Brisbane suburb of Hamilton. The property was purchased in 2013 using a business registered in his wife Margaret's name.
Mr Batt declined to be interviewed and never responded to a comprehensive list of questions delivered to his door.

During a holiday in Tasmania in 2012 Jo McCarter and her husband toured the Nant distillery. They were impressed with what they saw.
After returning to Brisbane, the couple accepted an offer to buy two barrels of whisky for $11,000 and get one free.
"Interest rates in banks had been pretty ordinary for the last few years, so I just liked the idea that we were getting a bit more bang for our buck," said Ms McCarter.
"Probably a little bit too much bang, in hindsight."
The McCarters received a complimentary bottle of Nant whisky in the mail, certificates of ownership for their barrels and a signed letter from Mr Batt welcoming them to the fold.
"It all sounded quite flash, a bit posh — something we weren't used to," she said.
When her mother died, Ms McCarter decided to invest her son and daughter's inheritance in an attempt to grow their wealth.
She purchased multiple barrels for her children and a few extra for herself and her husband, increasing the family's collection to 10 barrels, worth a combined $116,000.
"If we had realised our investment, if we had got back what we expected to get back, it would have been in the vicinity of $170,000," she said.

But to this day, the McCarters have not received a cent.
Late last year, after reading media reports suggesting Nant was struggling financially, the couple made several attempts to contact sales representatives over the phone to enquire about their investment but were unsuccessful.
Then Ms McCarter remembered that while Nant made its whisky in Tasmania, the administrative staff were based in Queensland, Mr Batt's home state.
She decided to visit the head office in Brisbane, but arrived to find it closed.
"We started to feel a little bit sick in the stomach then," said Ms McCarter.
"This is it, we've lost all our money."
There was a brief glimmer of hope when Australian Whisky Holdings (AWH), a publicly listed company, announced a takeover of Nant last October.
Investors were relieved, and were optimistic the new owners would fix the mess.

But after AWH conducted a thorough stocktake as part of its due diligence, it was revealed that a staggering 700 barrels had never been filled with whisky.
The audit also found an unknown number of barrels were either missing or had been secretly decanted, bottled and sold to the public without the knowledge of investors.
In a letter sent to the McCarters in April, they were told five of their barrels of whisky simply did not exist.
The remainder had been filled with low-volume alcohol that would not reach maturity for many years to come.
"We were shocked, disappointed," Ms McCarter said.
"We sit here at night watching TV and see people on A Current Affair that have had their life savings taken away from them investing in stupid schemes and I kind of feel like we've been stupid as well."
Speaking for the first time, two former employees have shed new light on the circumstances that brought the much-hyped investment scheme undone.
Annie Morgan was the senior bookkeeper for Nant. She told Background Briefing the distillery in Bothwell was struggling to keep up with demand when she was hired nearly three years ago.

"When our barrel investor manager left in October, 2014, she had mentioned to me that there were about 900 barrels that were unfilled," said Ms Morgan.
In a promotional video released last year, Mr Batt appears to defend the delays, explaining that the production of high quality whisky cannot be rushed.

"We don't apologise for taking our time to make the whisky and to fill barrels and to make sure that every single thing we do is perfect," he said.
"We take a great deal of care and we just want to be able to educate our customers and our barrel investors that, you know, magic takes time."
In a subsequent interview with the alcohol industry news website The Shout, Mr Batt insisted he had a plan to fill the empty barrels and said Australian Whisky Holdings was well aware of it.
"They've made out that it was never our intent to fill the barrels, that we've just taken the investment and then pissed off, but that's just not true," he said.
"We had bought four new stills, we had 600 new barrels in the shed, we spent hundreds of thousands of dollars getting ready for expansion to meet our back orders because the barrel program has just been so successful."
The production problems worried former distiller Anthony White, who began to fear that investors expecting to receive returns within four years would be let down.
"If those persons' barrels weren't getting manufactured for two years after they'd purchased the barrel, there was no way they were going to be paid on maturation of their barrel after four years," he said.
Mr White was also uncomfortable with a marketing strategy that ultimately backfired. It involved labelling bottles of whisky with the number of the barrel from which the spirit was sourced.
The gimmick proved popular but was ultimately abandoned when a handful of investors discovered whisky from their barrels had been decanted and bottled without their knowledge.
"They actually took the cask number off the bottles after that point so no-one was aware of what cask number was in those bottles."
As confusion reigned over the barrels, bills were piling up and Mr Batt was developing a reputation for being unreliable when it came to paying suppliers who did jobs for Nant.
Background Briefing has seen an unpaid invoice for more than $100,000 relating to work builder Ben Nicholls completed at the Bothwell estate.
This was just the tip of the iceberg, according to Ms Morgan, the former senior bookkeeper, who remembers fielding multiple calls from other angry tradespeople.
"It was embarrassing. I was the one copping the abuse from them because they wanted their money," she said.

Even former Australian cricketer Matthew Hayden, who was approached to be the public face of Nant in 2014, was forced to terminate his contract when he stopped receiving income.
"Sadly when I got through about half of the first year of my contract, monies then ceased to be getting paid," he said.
Mr Batt and his wife Margaret had established a complicated network of businesses.
According to a diagram created by their accountants, Wallace Group, and obtained by Background Briefing, there were at least a dozen separate entities associated with Nant.
Around half of them are now under administration or in the process of being deregistered.
There are also fresh allegations barrel sales figures were altered before paperwork was submitted to the Australian Tax Office (ATO).
In December 2014, Mr Batt wrote to Ms Morgan to ask: "Annie, can you reduce the barrel sales in that quarter by 350 thousand dollars?"

Reducing the barrel sales had the effect of decreasing the amount of tax Nant paid that quarter.
In a separate email exchange in February 2015, Mr Batt made a similar request: "Annie, I'd like to get that down to 100 thousand, if possible."
According to Ms Morgan, Mr Batt believed that although the barrels in question had been sold, Nant was not required to pay any GST until they were filled with whisky.
But by the time Australian Whisky Holdings inspected the books earlier this year, Nant owed the ATO more than a million dollars. The ATO declined to comment on the case.
In August, Background Briefing revealed Tasmania Police had launched a criminal investigation into Nant in response to allegations of fraudulent conduct.
Queensland Police are probing a separate Nant investment scheme that involved selling Angus cattle, promising the same 9.55 per cent return.
It is understood the Australian Securities Investments Commission is unsure whether it has the power to act in the case, as the barrels and bulls may be classed as property rather than financial products.

But rather than relying on others to investigate, Harrison Scarf, who was employed at a now defunct Nant bar in Brisbane, decided to take matters into his own hands.
When he and his colleagues failed to receive their wages last June, he called their hospitality manager, who implied they were unlikely to get their money and should stop working immediately.
Mr Scarf ignored that advice, instead devising a plan to claw back what they were owed.
"We'll stay open tonight," he recalls telling another bartender.
"We'll tell everyone the EFTPOS machine is down, we'll just take complete cash sales, and hopefully we can make enough money to pay ourselves out.
"Then we'll just empty the tills on Saturday night, leave our payslips in there, walk out, lock the doors, and never come back. And that's how we got our money."

Australian Whisky Holdings pulled the plug on the Nant takeover in March when it discovered the full extent of the debt the business had accrued.
The company instead decided to purchase only the Nant name and the whisky production assets.
It is now running its own distilling operation on the Bothwell estate.


Two Australian companies who want to help build high-tech future warships have been told their involvement in a $35 billion Defence project could lead to costly delays of at least two years.
West Australian company Austal and its South Australian partner ASC are furiously lobbying to ensure they can construct the Navy's Future Frigates, which will be based on a yet-to-be-selected international design.
Spanish company Navantia, UK firm BAE Systems and Italian shipbuilder Fincantieri have been shortlisted in a fierce competition to design, build and sustain nine new anti-submarine warfare frigates to replace Australia's existing Anzac frigate fleet.

The ABC has been told a joint Austal and ASC bid for the build of the frigates won initial support from some federal cabinet ministers, before the Defence Department convinced the Government the proposal should only be "optional", not "mandated".
"Advice from the Department of Defence is that changing the request for tender to mandate a particular shipbuilder would result in a delay of at least two years in the Future Frigates program," Defence Industry Minister Christopher Pyne said in a statement.
"The Government is committed to creating an indigenous naval shipbuilding industry in Australia which will involve a significant increase of employees in the shipbuilding industry, focused on South Australia."
Representatives of the international companies competing for the Future Frigates project have also privately echoed warnings of significant delays if the Government mandates a certain shipbuilder.
Austal chief executive David Singleton insisted the participation of his company and ASC in the building phase would not complicate or delay the Future Frigates project.
"We bring our ships in on time and on cost and everybody knows that," Mr Singleton told the ABC.
The program will come under scrutiny today during a parliamentary inquiry into the future of Australia's naval shipbuilding industry.
"Given the amount of money that's being spent here, we have to ensure that we are not just providing work for foreign shipyards," said Labor senator Kim Carr, who will take part in the inquiry.


Power giant AGL has ceased installations of household batteries in Adelaide as part of a trial "Virtual Power Plant" and is flagging a change of battery technology, but won't confirm if it is experiencing problems with its current product.
The scheme went live in March and has seen hundreds of households install with Sunverge batteries, heavily subsidised by AGL and the Federal Government's renewable energy agency ARENA.
Under the scheme, flagged as "the largest project of its kind in the world", AGL has the power to simultaneously discharge power from the batteries into the grid, helping secure the grid when needed.
AGL wrote to prospective customers this week, alerting them that the company is ceasing installations as it plans to introduce "next-generation battery technology into our next phase of installations".
Two months ago AGL customer Rob Fitzgerald had an AGL battery system installed at a short-term rental property he owns in Parkside, to help control spiralling electricity costs.
Yet he said the near-new battery was now in line for replacement.
"In August we had this one installed and I got a call the other day to say they're upgrading the system, upgrading the battery. Technology's changed," Mr Fitzgerald said.
"They said it should be around about November when they put the battery in and do the upgrades."
"I can see the battery is working fine. But they tell me there's upgraded technology happening. So I read that as something's gone wrong with the battery, something's failing with the battery or something has failed with the battery."
Mr Fitzgerald said he had paid extra for equipment which would enable the battery to operate during a blackout, but had been advised by AGL to switch off that functionality.
"We paid about $1,000 extra for that. I got a call from AGL, that said there was some issue, some software problem, some glitch in the system," he said.
"So they've actually asked me to turn it off and they're looking at a fix there. Hopefully they'll happen soon."
AGL would not respond directly to the ABC's questions about whether there had been problem with the current Sunverge battery technology.
A company spokesman said "the SA Virtual Power Plant pilot is successfully working as a pilot should — new technology is being tested in the market and based on lessons learned, the program is being adapted".
"AGL also notes that the Virtual Power Plant has not paused, and remains live, operational and safe," the spokesman said.
The power provider did not respond directly to the ABC's questions about how many customers would have their battery systems replaced, and the reasons for their replacement, but said the program's "early adopters" would be offered an "upgrade to the next generation offering".
"Lessons and customer feedback from the initial phase of the project are being used to shape subsequent phases and we want to ensure that all customers have an opportunity to opt in to the next generation offering," the spokesman said.
AGL said it would reach out to all registered Virtual Power Plant customers over coming days to discuss project updates with each customer individually.


Chief Inspector John 'Jack' Thomas, who has died aged 91, has been remembered for saving the lives of many Victorians in his work with early breathalysers in the 1960s, an Australian first.
For his significant contribution to the community in reducing Victoria's staggering road toll, the retired policeman has received a ceremonial funeral in his hometown of Echuca.
His work as the officer-in-charge of the Breath Analysis Section of Victoria Police in the early 1960s saw him pioneer the use of evidential breath analysis as a method of law enforcement in Australia, which contributed to changing community attitudes towards drink driving.
Evidential breath analysis was introduced in Victoria in 1966, two years after research completed by American Professor Robert Borkenstein — the inventor of the breathalyser — in 1964 which found a single-vehicle collision increased exponentially as the blood alcohol increased.
Based upon this research, evidential breath analysis was introduced in Victoria in 1966.
In 1970, the Victorian road toll was 1,061.
At midnight on September 6, 2017, the road toll was 175.
"I remember in the early days if someone got busted for .05 they'd say 'Oh, you poor thing'," his son and retired police officer Neil Thomas recalled.
He said the introduction of the breathalyser, to which his father was a strong campaigner, "completely changed" community attitudes.
Such was Mr Thomas' commitment to reducing the road toll he was awarded numerous awards including the Queens Police Medal, the National Police Service Medal, the Groves Medal from the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons, in addition to an honorary fellowship.
"To be a fellow of the College of Surgeons you're meant to be a surgeon. But because he'd done so much to save lives, he was awarded that," Mr Thomas said.

While the Victorian road toll was exceptionally high in 1970, it reflected the high number nationally with a record 3,798 deaths.
Research Professor Brian Fildes from the Monash Accident Research Centre said the number of people killed was almost a direct correlation with the number of vehicles on the road.
"The more vehicles we put on the road the more people were dying as a result of road accidents," he said.
"It was really quite a trauma at that point."
According to Professor Fildes, after 1970 "things changed fairly dramatically" with the number of deaths falling, while the number of vehicles continued to increase.
He attributed this to the implementation of a more scientific approach in tackling the road toll with Australia taking its lead from American physician Dr William Hadden, a leader in highway accident research and prevention in the United States.
"He started to think of the road toll in much the same way as you would think of any other health condition," Professor Fildes said.
The three crucial 'instruments' Dr Hadden studied for reducing road toll were the human factor, the vehicle and the road.
Some of his key findings around changing behavioural patterns resulted in focusing on reducing drink driving and speeding, which resulted in speed programs and random breath testing (RBT).
"We as a country were learning about the role of alcohol in crashes back in those days and this random breath testing approach — were people were pulled over and tested for their level of alcohol — was something that developed during the 80s and 90s," Professor Fildes said.
Even though Chief Inspector Thomas was working with breathalysers as early as 1961, it was not until 1976 that Victoria became the first state to introduce RBT legislation.

This was followed five years later by the Northern Territory and South Australia, and in 1982 it was introduced to New South Wales and ACT.
However, Professor Fildes said it had only been in the past decade that Australia has really understood the role of alcohol in car crashes, reflected in the reduced death rate.
In the year 2000 there were 9.5 deaths per 100,000 people, and in 2014 there were five deaths per 100,000 — but with more work needed.
"In the last couple of years we're starting to see a bit of an upturn in the road toll and that's of great concern to everyone," Professor Fildes said.
While he had currently only completed a preliminary analysis of new figures, and was reluctant to draw any conclusions, he said speed was a significant factor that should be focused on.
"It probably took us about 20 years or so for the community to actually accept [RBT], that it wasn't safe to drink and drive, and I think we're only at the start of that when it comes to speeding," he said.
"In another twenty years people will understand that it is equally as dangerous to speed as it is to drink and drive."


Bruce Gordon has successfully delayed a key creditors meeting as part of a last-ditch attempt to thwart the sale of the Ten Network to CBS.
The second creditors' meeting will now occur on September 19 — one week later than what Ten's administrator KordaMentha had originally planned.
Mr Gordon's WIN Corporation and Birketu filed an urgent application in the Supreme Court of NSW on Wednesday to prevent the meeting from going ahead next week, due to alleged deficiencies in the second creditors' report.
So urgent was this application that Justice Ashley Black, and the barristers for CBS and the administrators, had not even received  WIN's "revised outline of submissions" until the first few minutes of the Thursday court hearing.
One of the alleged deficiencies is that the administrator failed to provide sufficient reasons why it supports CBS's takeover proposal.
Another argument will be whether the administrators should have considered selling Ten to Mr Gordon and Lachlan Murdoch prior to its collapse.
These substantive arguments will be heard in court next week on September 12 and 13 (next Tuesday and Wednesday).
Messrs Gordon and Murdoch were the front-runners to take over Ten, and were waiting for the Federal Government to amend media ownership laws, which would have allowed a deal to proceed.
However, with CBS being Ten's most likely future owner, the billionaire investors have become the "disappointed underbidders".
Richard McHugh SC, representing the administrator, argued in court that the "disappointed underbidders" should have filed their application "weeks or months ago".
"They shouldn't be given a free run to advance their commercial interest."
Justice Black told the parties that their case involved "significant complexities", and noted the short time between the second hearing day (September 13) and the rescheduled creditors' meeting (September 19).
However, he will not be hearing the case next week, and there is a risk that the case might not be resolved in six days.
"Whichever judge hears the matter next week will have to do the best he or she can," he said.


The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will test its new found powers to protect small business from unfair contracts in an action against one of Australia's largest waste management companies, JJ Richards.
In the first action of its type since the Australian Consumer Law was extended to cover standard contracts involving small businesses, the ACCC will take JJ Richards to the Federal Court alleging numerous clauses in the company's standard contract breach the new laws.
The ACCC said the contracts which were used until at least April this year were unfair because they created a significant imbalance in the rights and obligations of JJ Richards and their small business customers.
The ACCC will also allege the standard contracts were not "reasonably necessary" to protect JJ Richard's legitimate interests and would, if relied on, cause significant financial detriment to small businesses.
JJ Richards is ranked in the top 100 of an IBISWorld survey of Australia's biggest privately-owned businesses, with annual revenues of around $680 million from a range of recycling and waste collection services.
The unfair contract terms the ACCC has raised in its action include:
"This is the first time the ACCC has taken court action to enforce the new laws that protect small businesses from unfair contract terms," ACCC deputy chair Michael Schaper said.
"In 2016, the ACCC engaged with a range of industries to encourage compliance with the new laws and reviewed small business contracts in a range of industries, including the waste management industry."
That consultation phase saw a number of large corporations including Australia Post, News Limited, Optus and Scentre Group (Westfield's local spin-off) amend or remove contract terms which may have been deemed "unfair".
The new law covers contracts between businesses where one of the firms employs less than 20 people and the contract is worth up to $300,000 in a single year, or $1 million if the contract runs for more than a year.
The ACCC argued standard form contracts provide little, or no, opportunity for the responding party to negotiate the terms — they are offered on a 'take it or leave it' basis.
"This action should serve as a reminder to large businesses that haven't already to review their standard form contracts to ensure they aren't considered to be unfair under the changes to the law, " Dr Schaper said.
The ACCC will ask the court to deem the terms unfair, and consequently void, and place injunctions on JJ Richards preventing it entering into future contracts with small businesses that contain them.


The McGowan Government has abandoned a key election commitment just months after coming into office, slugging businesses with higher taxes in its first state budget despite promising not to.
Big businesses will see their payroll tax bills rise, while gold miners will also be slugged with higher royalties as part of Treasurer Ben Wyatt's attempt to bring WA's budget back to surplus by 2021.

Thousands of voluntary redundancies will be sought from the public service and an axe will be taken to the Royalties for Regions (RFR) program as part of substantial spending cuts, but it is not predicted to be enough to stop the state's debt rising to $43.8 billion by 2020.
WA's budget is predicted to be $2.3 billion in the red this financial year, with deficits above $1 billion predicted each year until a forecast return to surplus in 2020-21.

Premier Mark McGowan insisted revenue write-downs had left him with no choice but to break his pre-election pledge not to increase taxes, lifting payroll tax on companies paying employees more than $100 million per year.
"We are sorry about that, I am sorry; it hasn't been easy," he said.
Companies paying employees between $100 million and $1.5 billion will see their payroll tax rise to 6 per cent, while those above that level will pay 6.5 per cent — although the Government insisted that the rise would only last for five years.
The hike is expected to impact around 1,300 businesses operating in WA and raise $435 million over four years in the process.
Mr Wyatt announced 3,000 voluntary public sector redundancies to would deliver a saving of more than $300 million, but he insisted this would not impact frontline services.
Meanwhile, in a move sure to spark a backlash from the mining industry, gold producers will face much higher royalty charges in a move designed to raise nearly $400 million over four years.

The Government has also risked angering regional WA by shifting hundreds of millions of dollars in regular expenditure into the Royalties for Regions fund.
That means instead of funding additional regional projects as it was initially designed to, RFR will now be used to pay for ongoing costs related to health, water, sewerage and Labor's election commitments.
Households have been spared from further direct pain, after significant hikes to fees and charges were announced earlier this year.
Mr McGowan said the budget was an effort to get WA's finances back onto a sustainable footing after years of multibillion-dollar deficits, including a record $3 billion deficit last year.
"It's about striking the right balance between delivering on our election promises, creating new jobs and getting the state's finances back onto a sustainable direction," he said.
"I wanted to protect struggling families, and small and medium businesses."
WA Opposition Leader Mike Nahan labelled it "a budget of betrayal".
"The McGowan Government promised not to increase taxes or add new taxes," Dr Nahan said. "They add a billion dollars worth of taxes.
"He also promised not to reduce frontline services and there are substantial reductions … he also promised to reduce debt. Debt goes up by 30 per cent."
A new gambling tax will be brought in, affecting internet-based bookmakers who have avoided the same levies as the TAB by basing themselves in other jurisdictions.

But the Government could face challenges getting that and other revenue-raising measures through Parliament, due to its lack of a majority in the Upper House.
Elsewhere, the budget does not including money for a train line to Ellenbrook, even though construction is due to start within two years.
The cost of Labor's Metronet public transport commitments has already blown out by nearly than $200 million due to higher costs for the Yanchep extension and Thornlie-to-Cockburn rail line.
And the ongoing troubles at the Perth Children's Hospital have cost the state an additional $18 million, while nearly $14 million will have to be spent fixing ICT systems at Fiona Stanley Hospital.
Chamber of Minerals and Energy WA chief executive Nicole Roocke said the gold royalty hike was a "slap in the face".

"The increase in royalties will be detrimental to the sector at the point in time when we're starting to see green shoots emerge," Ms Roocke said.
"There is the real potential that they'll be job cuts as a result."
Association of Mining and Exploration Companies acting CEO Graham Short also said the move would have "significant and social consequences".
"It's quite clearly a cash grab … [it is] short-sighted and to be honest quite baffling," he said.
Chamber of Commerce and Industry CEO Deidre Willmott said the payroll tax fallout would flow through the entire economy.
"There will be an impact on jobs … these increases are targeted at the largest employers so their employees will be affected," she said.




Energy company Santos has agreed to supply gas to 330,000 Australian east coast homes over the next two years rather than export it.
Santos and its GLNG partners announced they would sell 30 petajoules (PJ) of gas to east coast customers including electricity companies next year and in 2019.
Santos managing director Kevin Gallagher said that the gas would otherwise have been exported as LNG.
"Over the last few months Santos has been working constructively with the Federal Government and our GLNG partners to supply additional gas to the east coast domestic market," he said.
"Thirty PJ is a material volume of gas which would power a 228-megawatt power station or 330,000 homes over the two-year period."
The announcement follows a Federal Government decision earlier in the year to restrict gas exports, in a bid to counter domestic shortages which have been pushing prices higher in Australia, and in turn affecting power generation.
Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull did not specify how much impact export controls were likely to have on prices, but said wholesale prices fell after the federal decision was taken.
Mr Turnbull argued it would be unacceptable for Australia to become the largest global exporter of LNG but have a shortage of east coast domestic market gas.
Mr Gallagher said the decision taken by Santos was further proof of its readiness to respond to market dynamics and meet local gas demand.
"We are committed to improving energy reliability and affordability for all Australians, both householders and industry," he said.
Santos earlier decided to deliver up to 72 PJ of gas over four years into the south-east market through a swap agreement and sale of 15 PJ to the Pelican Point power station in Adelaide.


Fans attending Adelaide Oval for the first AFL qualifying final tonight will face a challenge if they're wanting to pay with cash for food and drinks inside the taxpayer-funded stadium.
The oval this year converted a large number of outlets to only accept card payments.
It's a move Adelaide Oval Stadium Management Authority (AOSMA) general manager Darren Chandler said was all about faster service and followed a trial for card-only outlets during the 2016-17 cricket season.
"The trial was well received, particularly by those seeking a faster speed of service and for the growing number of patrons who do not want to carry cash," he said.
"Approximately two-thirds of our outlets are [now] card-only, which is slightly behind buying behaviour where card transactions sit at around 87 per cent."
Adelaide Oval has a busy weekend of football finals, starting with tonight's clash between the Adelaide Crows and Greater Western Sydney.
Port Adelaide Power take on the West Coast Eagles on Saturday night, while on Sunday Sturt will play Central District in the SANFL semi-finals and Woodville-West Torrens will play the Port Adelaide Magpies.
Patrons have reported having to walk a long way to find a cash outlet.
The oval also offers a small number of booths where patrons can exchange cash for a food and beverage cash card, but they are an added inconvenience for those trying to get fed and watered and return to their seats in the rush between quarters.
Australian Privacy Foundation chairman David Vaile said card-only payment systems in general were a "straight-out" attack on anonymous payments.
"There's the old furphy, 'if you've got nothing to hide then you have nothing to fear'. It's complete nonsense," Mr Vaile said.
"You've obviously got something to hide — PINs, bank details — and it's not because you're criminal but because you're sensible."

Crows supporter Sam Auld is a regular visitor to Adelaide Oval and suggested the stalls might lose business from time-poor punters as a result of card-only systems.
"Many people wouldn't want their partners knowing how many drinks they buy and how much they spend. It's easily avoided with cash," he said.
"It's all about cost saving for them; no tills to count, less chance of mistakes and theft, and payWave is faster than cash."
Mr Chandler said all credit and debit cards were accepted and transaction fees were absorbed by AOSMA. The cash exchange cards incurred no fees and could be reimbursed in full at any time.
He said he did not consider the system to be a threat to consumer privacy.
"Consumer behaviour is trending this way and it's all a part of our approach to keep up with consumer demands and provide a faster service for patrons."
Mr Vaile said commercial transactions had not been an obvious government surveillance mechanism in the past because the effort required was intrusive and largely unjustifiable.
"But with the increased reach of the real-time financial tracking systems, at some stage it may become accessible without a warrant," he said.
"There's a problem in that the bar is constantly being lowered and the capacity [for tracking] is being raised."
Mr Vaile added that people often did not realise that it was not just about them.
"If, for instance, you're tied to a particular transaction to a particular venue and other people turn up in the same place, that enables network analysis.
"You were there with your mates. It might not be a big deal, but on the other hand it is becoming increasingly difficult to protect that information."
He said there was a global push to recognise that anonymity was a legal right and the "starting point" for privacy protection.



How would you feel boarding a plane that you knew was headed straight into the eye of one of the most powerful Atlantic storms in a century?
With Hurricane Irma hovering ominously off the coast of Puerto Rico, most flights were turning around.
But not this one.
Delta flight 431 decided to go it alone, racing from New York's JFK airport directly into the path of the storm for its destination: San Juan.
Aviation reporter Jason Rabinowitz tracked the tricky flight using FlightRadar24 and provided live commentary on Twitter.


With windspeeds on the ground picking up, the race was on to get a full flight to its destination on time.

Squeezing its way through the outskirts of the hurricane, flight 341 had a tricky landing ahead.
But they were prepared.
According to Delta, flight 431 arrived safely at 12:01pm (local time) to light rain. It recorded winds around 24 knots with gusts up to 31 knots — all these conditions are below safe operating limits for the 737-900ER.

Having made it through the storm, the pilot, crew and ground staff had yet another challenge ahead of them: unload all passengers and luggage, clean the aircraft, board a plane full of new passengers and get out of San Juan before Irma unleashed her worst on the Puerto Rican capital.
The plane managed a tight turnaround, with Delta recording flight 302 (the same aircraft's return journey) departing San Juan at 12:41pm — just 40 minutes after it landed.
There were 173 passengers on board.
Conditions were ramping up as the aircraft left San Juan, with winds buffeting trees at the airport and dark clouds hanging overhead.


The flight stuck to a gap between the hurricane's outer rain band and the centre of the storm to find open sky.

After clearing the hurricane, it was smooth sailing back to JFK, with the flight landing 39 minutes ahead of schedule.
Delta released a statement later on Wednesday praising its meteorology team as "the best in the business".
"They took a hard look at the weather data and the track of the storm and worked with the flight crew and dispatcher to agree it was safe to operate the flight," company vice-president Erik Snell said.
"And our flight and ground crews were incredible in their effort to turn the aircraft quickly and safely so the flight could depart well before the hurricane threat."


The impact of low wages and high household debt appear to have taken their toll on Australia's retailers, with a further slowdown in sales in July.

In seasonally adjusted terms retail sales were stagnant, having eased back from a moribund 0.2 per cent growth in June.
The market wasn't expecting much, but had pencilled in around 0.3 per cent growth into its forecasts.
A number of key sectors —particularly in discretionary retailing — reported shrinking sales.
Where growth was reported, it was still fairly weak.
The largest falls were recorded in New South Wales (-0.4 per cent), South Australia (-0.8 per cent), Tasmania (-0.9 per cent) and the Northern Territory (-0.1 per cent), while consumers in Queensland and Victoria were prepared to lash out more.

The stronger annual growth of 3.6 per cent has been supported by a spurt in March and April, driven by post-Cyclone Debbie rebuilding.
RBC's Su-Lin Ong says Australian consumers are feeling the pinch and are likely to keep their wallets shut for some time as utility prices rise and squeeze disposable incomes.
"A large increase in utility prices [15-20 per cent] came into effect from 1 July and may have tempered expenditure in the month," Ms Ong said.
"We suspect that the hit to household disposable income from higher electricity and gas prices has yet to fully feed through and we would not be surprised to see further weakness in retail sales ahead."
ANZ's Jo Masters said the weakness in sales was concentrated in small firms, which tend to have a more volatile cycle.
"Softening retail sales is consistent with our view that households will struggle to sustain consumption growth above income growth — particularly given weak wage growth and high levels of household debt — and we continue to see the consumer as a key risk to the economic outlook," Ms Masters said.
Trade figures also softened in July with the trade surplus tumbling to just $460 million, down from $888 million in the previous month.
The market had expected a surplus closer to $1 billion, however weaker than expected shipments of key commodities coal, iron ore and gold dragged exports down 2 per cent — outpacing the 1 per cent fall in imports.
The surplus has narrowed for three consecutive months and is now down about 90 per cent from its peak of $4.6 billion in December last year.
Coal exports fell 2.2 per cent over the month, while iron was down 1.8 per cent — largely due to weaker prices.

Falling prices also drove LNG exports down a surprising 12.4 per cent after several strong months of growth.
Rural goods bucked the trend, up 2 per cent, with particularly strong performances from wool (+26 per cent), although cereal exports were down 13 per cent.
Services exports — in particular tourism — were significant contributors to the surplus.
"Tourism exports rose by 3.4 per cent while imports [money spent by Australian residents offshore] inched up by 0.6 per cent," CBA's Gareth Aird noted.
"As yet, the higher Australian dollar hasn't had a negative impact on the tourism trade balance," he said.
JP Morgan's Ben Jarman said the overall trade retreat may be temporary.
"The export data are likely to pick up again as higher market commodity prices transmit to the official trade receipts, and as LNG capacity picks up further," he said.



Low-paid, unskilled workers who rely on the gig economy to make a living are missing out on mandatory employer superannuation, according to Australia's peak super body.

The Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA) wants the current compulsory superannuation system overhauled to ensure workers employed by the likes of Uber, Deliveroo and Airtasker can build retirement nest eggs.
ASFA wants current rules changed, where workers earning less than $450 in a calendar month are not entitled to the compulsory employer contribution.
Chief executive Martin Fahy warns the rapid growth of the gig economy means many independent contractors are being disadvantaged and, in some cases, exploited by unscrupulous employers.
"Workers who already operate under some form of independent work arrangement, such as independent contractors, will migrate onto web-based platforms and new gig economy jobs will be created," Dr Fahy said.
"The case for change is strong. In the absence of any policy reforms, a growing gig economy would mean lower superannuation balances at retirement.
"This would reduce the broader adequacy of the superannuation and retirement income system."
ASFA estimates there are around 100,000 workers — or 0.8 per cent of the workforce — who make their living from web-based platforms such as Uber, Deliveroo and Airtasker are potentially disadvantaged by missing out on compulsory superannuation payments.

Research by ASFA also warns about "sham contracting", where dodgy employers disguise an employment arrangement as "independent contracting" to avoid responsibility to pay the superannuation guarantee.
Dr Fahy said the rise of the gig economy means compulsory superannuation regulations need to be revamped to cover self-employed workers who might make their living from a number of jobs.

"This is particularly relevant for people who work sporadically and are on low incomes, but also for those who work in the gig economy as a second job," Dr Fahy said.
"Workers who inhabit this legal 'grey area' are showing growth in worker numbers. This issue will only become more prevalent."
ASFA has released a discussion paper examining the superannuation and retirement risks for workers in the gig economy.
In the paper, ASFA says almost a quarter of self-employed workers have no superannuation, with women more disadvantaged than men.
Follow Peter Ryan on Twitter @peter_f_ryan and on his Main Street blog.


A surprise move by President Donald Trump boosted sentiment on Wall Street, which is expected to flow through to the Australian share market.

Most US sectors posted gains, with energy stocks being the best performers thanks to an overnight boost in oil prices.
Risk aversion over North Korea's recent missile tests has also worn off as gold prices retreated from their one-year highs.
Furthermore, the Australian dollar has risen slightly to hit the 80 US cent mark again.
President Trump ignored the advice of his fellow Republicans by backing the Democrats to support a deal which would extend the US debt ceiling until December 15, avoid a government shutdown and provide disaster relief for victims of Tropical Storm Harvey.
"We had a very good meeting with [House minority leader] Nancy Pelosi and [Senate minority leader] Chuck Schumer," the President said on Wednesday.
"We agreed to a three-month extension on debt ceiling, which they consider to be sacred, very important."
Earlier in the day, House speaker Paul Ryan said the Democratic proposal for a three-month increase was "ridiculous and disgraceful", and would "play politics with the debt ceiling".
The Federal Reserve also released the findings of its latest report on the US economy, the Beige Book.
It showed that the US economy grew at a modest to moderate pace in July through mid-August, but inflation remained slight.
"Prices rose modestly overall across the country," the Fed said in its Beige Book. This data was compiled from anecdotal evidence, sourced from business contacts across the US.
The inflation data prompted Fed governor Lael Brainard's comments on Tuesday — that the central bank should hold off on a rate hike until it is confident that the weak readings will rebound.
In addition, Fed vice-chairman Stanley Fischer has resigned, effective in mid-October, citing "personal reasons".
Mr Fischer was appointed by former President Barack Obama in 2014, and his term was due to end in June 2018.
His sooner-than-expected departure will allow President Trump scope to begin reshaping the leadership of the Fed, which may affect the longer-term outlook for US monetary policy.
Australian shares are expected to open higher, according to ASX futures which have risen by 0.3 per cent.
But the local market may be affected by some economic figures that the Bureau of Statistics will release this morning — July retail sales and trade balance (which is the difference in value between Australia's imports and exports).
Retail sales are expected to increase by 0.3 per cent, according to economists polled by .
However, two of the big four banks are not as optimistic.
ANZ's prediction is that retail sales will rise by 0.3 per cent, while NAB economists are forecasting "tepid 0.1 per cent growth".
The market consensus is that Australia's trade balance will come in at $1 billion.
"Little change in commodity prices in the month should see the trade balance print a surplus of around $850 million," noted Deutsche Bank strategist Ken Crompton.
"But NAB economists are more optimistic and have pencilled in a $1.5 billion outcome thanks to higher prices in bulk commodities and solid demand from China," NAB's foreign exchange strategist Rodrigo Catril wrote.

